ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203674	Mr. President, since you're proposing a united debate, and the topic is extremely important, it's about budget rebalancing, then I suggest you at least extend your ability to speak for the clubs. I think it's extremely important, so here I am going to support a united debate, give it more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203675	Okay. Clubs that, clubs well, five minutes individual, clubs can be 15 minutes, okay? Okay, that's fine. Thank you very much. As we have decided, we will conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for the year 2021 and 2022 - In addition to the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for the year 2021 and 2022, it is also submitted: - Proposals Amendments and additions to the financial plans of extra-profits for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Croatian Highway - Autocest Rijeka-Zagreb - HZ Travel Transport - HZ Infrastructure and - Final Proposal of the Law on Changes and Completion of the Republic of Croatia. No. 946; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 39. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Article 2 shall apply. 211 and 212. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal of the State budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditure and expenditures are simultaneously proposed in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric, to give us further explanations of the proposal, several MPs reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First colleague of the Grumo for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203677	Your Honor, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before you moved on to this, the point of budget rebalance, so it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 143 and 144. I asked the Croatian government more than 30 days ago to answer why Belgium was removed from the list of countries that needed self-insulation. Belgium is a million-dollar country in Europe Just a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] timed out [[Intruder: No, time's up.]] It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I'm not responsible, Belgium is the country in which millions of people, the most dead of the coronarys, the political decision has been removed. [[Intruder: And that's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] from that list, I asked to be answered by that question, it's very important in the context and what my colleagues were saying, [[Intruder: Comrade Grmoe, your time is running out.]] A measure of self-insulation, that even at one point some bioterrorists, at another point can go to elections. [[I'm asking you to finish.]] We have a situation... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203678	I've got to shut you down because it's already gone, so you've been through twice the time, I've got it all figured out. You're being... I will again write to the government to answer that question, that is the authority I can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for Belgium, indeed, it has 3 times more inhabitants than Croatia and 100 times more dead. So much... is, therefore, 100 times more dead than Croatia, and 3 times more inhabitants. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just saying how good our measures were. Comrade Maras, you're picking up... I guess for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: And you're making political decisions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203679	Thank you very much. Here, after the epidemiologist of Grmoje and Jandrokovic who have established what is happening on the Croatian scene, I ask you, Mr. President, to stop this debate until Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic shows up in the Parliament because he should submit responsibility, this is my request as representative in HS that whoever is most responsible for the situation in Croatia come to HS and present the budget rebalancing [[Intruder: Excuse me, is this a request for a break, colleague Maras or what?]] In which, unfortunately, just a second, I finish my sentence. [[Okay, I'm asking you to sit down now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203680	I will right now, no, you have no right, this is business not what you're saying and what you're doing, and I will now call you as soon as we're done with my part of the Prime Minister's presidency that Mr. Maras of the Parliament wants him to come here. Here, I'll do it right now, and we can take a break, if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203681	Now I'm gonna ask for a break and I'll explain. ... Let me tell you what to tell him. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. [[Tell him what to say. Please, come on, come on.]] I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult and tell the Croatian public that Mr Plenkovic, who is after the elections to save his chair, is unable to come to the Croatian Parliament and explain to Croatian citizens what is changing in the budget, stands behind it as the most important document of his government. [[Intruder: This is now a request for a break?]] So, when it comes to budgeting, rebalancing or budgeting, it has to have a qualified majority, 76 MPs, and it's either there or there isn't a majority for his government. So he avoids that kind of debate because he doesn't have an answer. There is no answer for which there is no Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb in the city of Zagreb and there will be no reply today. There is no answer to the question why there is chaos in Croatian schools, which is why my children are now sitting in the office with me at work, instead of being at Croatian school, at their school, the oldest school in the city of Zagreb and learning and adopting knowledge. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is unable to organise a normal life in Croatia and restart teaching. There is no answer to the question why there is no more money in the Croatian budget for the economy, which is why no funds are provided for the continuation of economic measures in 6th, 7th and 8th months. So there's no answer to all those questions. Mr. Jandrokovic, you make fun of and make fun of and pretend to be arrogant here, but Croatian citizens are aware that everything you do, do not do for them, but do for yourselves. To stay in that chair, to keep him in that chair, to worry about Plenkovic and Jandrokovic for Croatian citizens, and that is pathetic, Mr Jandrokovic, and I am sorry that you act like the President of the Croatian Parliament. Keep making fun of her and keep making fun of her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203682	Please sit down. I don't make fun of anything, you make fun of the Rules of Procedure and the people who sit here every day, every day, every day. You're one of the agents who keeps doing the incidents. And don't tell me to make fun of myself and I'm proud because that's not who I am. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203683	Article 238, so Mr. President, you have no right to share qualifications, you are the first among equals. You have no right to qualify your representatives and to give your grades and it's not funny. I told you, Mr. President, your chair is your only interest. And that's pathetic, that's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203684	Comrade Maras, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203685	And I am sure that Croatian citizens will especially in your case...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203686	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203687	...to identify what it is, and also to the case of Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203688	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203689	I'm asking you not to do that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203690	Comrade Maras, please sit down. Well, don't, you insulted me first, and then you tell me I can't answer your insult. It's the logic of one trapped mind that thinks that he has the right to teach each other lessons and accuse the other of having to listen and keep quiet, and that's not how it works for you. Oh, come on. Okay, is there anyone else who's picking up? My colleague Grumo was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203691	I'm giving up this, I don't want to participate in this conflict, I've asked a specific question, I'm not a colleague of Maras, I've asked a logical question and I'm withdrawing this request for.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203692	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't continue at 11 o'clock. It's 10.50 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.01 HOURS]] I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Marić to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203694	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's the first sentence I have to say, at least so far in my personal term as Minister of Finance, I've never come before you with a budget rebalance in the first half of the year, but this time, the crown has done its part, so it's kind of brought us back together in the 5th month. Here, in any case, as was the case on several occasions, discussions and talks in HS on the first round of measures, the second round of measures, inter alia, was adopted by the Government, a convergence programme, a document that is an integral part of the process called, you know well the European Semester, and we have in some way fulfilled our obligation to send to European institutions, notably the European Commission. But more importantly, it's a document that we came up with updated projections macroeconomic for this and next year and what's most important for the word are actually the key figures in these new projections. Given the knowledge, information, data, forecasts, global flows and everything we take into account in these macroeconomic projections, we have come to the conclusion that this year's economic downturn of 9.4%, so the GDP decline of 9.4%, and you know well when we represent the 2020 budget, then we talked about growth of 2.5%, means significant correction and what we all know very well, we don't have to be economists, we don't have to be macroeconomics, we don't have to be macroeconomics that the circumstances that the covid has caused, and especially the part about how we say this, the closure of the economy or the closure of the economy ultimately have effects on these indicators. All GDP components other than state spending are also negative, so starting from personal consumption, which is also due to all the imputements that we usually take with such projections is 7%, the decline in investment somewhere around 9%, the decline in exports of goods and services, so both goods and services, and 30%, in our projections, or as a base assumption, we put a drop in the number of foreign tourists' overnight stays by about 70%. So tourism as an integral one of our strategic branches is in these numbers of exports of goods and services, actually exporting services as such. These projections also provide for the decline of imports of goods and services, it is the eternal one I would call the topic of import dependence, so now in circumstances when economic activity falls, when personal and investment consumption falls, then we have a decline of imports, but it is certainly an element that we all need to take care of together in some other circumstances, not only of these, let us call them so crisisous. As for the assessment of inflation or the consumer price index for this year, I say again, not only on domestic elements, so here we are talking already well-known simultaneous shock that on the side of the first instance offers in the first step, and now a marked shock on the side of demand. However, global flows are also taken into account in the consumer price index. We all know and follow well what happens to the prices of some raw materials, energys mostly oil, so for this year, among other things, we put a negative sign back in the projection, so a mild deflation of 0.3%. The most important variables in addition to this move on the labour market are employment, unemployment and wages. As far as employment is concerned, a fall of around 3.3% and a rise in the unemployment rate is expected to be 9.5%. So, all these projections that we had brought in a week earlier under the Convergence Programme have served as a basis, and we have sufficient reason to go into the changes to both the state budget and the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which is an integral part of these two points, given that the debate is united. As for the fiscal projections themselves, so the revenue side of the budget, I'll just remind you that in the original form of this year, the state budget of the revenue side of the budget was foreseen at 145 billion kuna. Taking into account all these new macroeconomic projections that are clearly and inevitably reflected in the revenue side of the budget. So the revenue side of the budget dictates two basic, two basic facts or two basic segments. One is that we have put certain measures in place to help the economy and taxpayers, and in particular these are measures, i.e. measures relating to the postponement or partial, partial exemption from the payment of certain public taxes specifically direct, income tax, income tax and income tax. However, an even greater effect on our forecasts will be of course from the expected decline in economic activity this year, which will, of course, reflect on the revenue side of the budget. And now that we're going to do an item by item, but I'm going to start with these total figures, so instead of 145 billion 140 million for this year at the state budget level, we predict 121 billion 950 million. So 23 billion and 200 million kunas less than originally predicted. Of course, when you look again, the item per item, the biggest correction in absolute amount is again on the highest income of the state budget, and that is the tax on additional value, but we also see adjustments on all other forms whether we talk about profit tax, whether we talk about contributions, whether we talk about the excise system, and then some others. However, I think that in this rebalancing, of course, we will respond to all your replicas and comments, but in some ways we are more focused on exactly what we call in the tax revenue budget, so tax revenues and contributions. The waste side of the state budget, the waste side of the state budget, given the situation, the outbreak of the Covid epidemic and all its reflections and all its reflections and on the Croatian not only economy but the society of us as a whole, put one additional challenge, which is that, in relation to the intended expenditures and originally planned, there must be additional sources of funding from one side of the health system, so the need for additional procurements that originally no one could or should have predicted in terms of protective equipment, masks, respirators and all that was needed to preserve human life's health, which we all said very clearly at the outset, I would have said in the beginning and agreed that the primary objective or call it such a zero goal, but also some measures that were put in place among others to reduce or to so many possible neutralise the damage to our economy. Therefore, aid measures as we referred to them mainly as economies of the horizontal nature of measures relating to direct support to employers for the payment of part of their employees' salaries, of course, on the condition that jobs are preserved. So, you can see from, I would say her own name, but also the structure of the measures, so measures to preserve jobs and, of course, measures that should also preserve the standard of Croatian workers or employees. This measure, which is not originally envisaged, and when you add and add to it and the effects that the state will not only pay for the support of the original 3,250 and for the 4 and 5th and 4,000 kuna, but also all public contributions, in this particular case, are contributions. So, all together we get to the level of about 7 billion kuna, when you add these original millions, and today we're already 100 million additional for healthcare, and then we come to what we as a government have drawn out in this rebalancing, which is that despite these increased expenditures, increased payment needs from the expenditure side of the budget that we didn't originally plan, and you hear ourselves talking about amounts of over 7 billion kuna, on all other items of the expenditure side of the budget, we find savings and corrections or cuts in all resolutions to bring the total expenditure side of the budget to the same level as originally planned. And it was actually a great effort that we have made in recent weeks, and I will, of course, thank all my colleagues in government and government, of course, and the Prime Minister for supporting that our basic draft, or in some way, leading the fiscal policies that we've been doing all this time, is I going to remind you once again that not one more year, in recent years, those beautiful years without Covid, not one year have we broken the budget's expenditure. And when we had a better budget, and every year that was the case, all that extra income was being rerouted to tax cuts and tax evasion and public debt cuts in the Republic of Croatia. This principle, unfortunately this time we have no surplus income, we have a deficit, but we continue to retain this principle in these circumstances very challenging with great pressures on the dissipating side and we want to maintain and not penetrate the overall side, or the total level of expenditure. Thus, the total level of expenditure of the state budget remains at the same level as originally foreseen in the amount of 147 billion kuna as regards the state budget. What is also important to say is the financial plans or corrections of financial plans for 10 extra-financial users. So, their original plan is, when we add them all together, there was an excess of around 725 million kuna, according to this new plan when we go one by one, we can, of course, also during the debate, analyse the more detailed financial plans of all these 10, so Croatian roads, Croatian waterways, DAB, CERRP, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, HZO, HAC, Highway Rijeka Zagreb, Croatian Railways Infrastructure and Croatian Railways Passenger transport, their new deficit for this year is 2.4 billion kuna. So also at their level significant correction. When we consolidate all this together, add local self-government, so all 576 units entering the general state and according to our national methodology, but mainly according to the ESA 2010 methodology that is comparable to all other EU Member States, we come to the fact that compared to the originally planned surplus for this year, surplus. For the first time, the surplus was planned, three years in a row and we achieved 630 million kuna that the deficit in the general government's budget is expected to amount to 24 billion 843 million kuna or 6.8% of GDP. So I will repeat once again, 4 years in a row absolutely under control and consolidated public finances, noting that... a few days or a few weeks ago EUROSTAT also published the last data for 2019 that we also achieved a surplus in the general government budget of nearly 25 billion kuna, so this year in view of the circumstances and all the elements that I have explained brings us back to the level of the significant deficit of I say almost 25 billion kuna. The component of this plan, i.e. rebalancing and amending and supplementing the financial plan, are amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget closely linked to the financing account. The financing account so far and in some of my previous exhibitions if I were to present the budget, and I mean the good part and in the debates, it may not have been so much in focus, I think here I am now going to use these remaining few minutes to pay attention to it, and I believe that in replicas or debates a little greater emphasis will be placed on it. So a few figures on that side of the funding account are so what we say below the line, it leads to everything that among other things is the need to finance that year. We had an original funding account plan of 30.5 billion kuna which would mean the planned one again, a balanced budget and all the maturity of different types and instruments of our public debt, whether we were talking about long-term bonds, loans, whether we were talking about short-term, vault records as well as some other elements. This financing account, given the already mentioned deficit, but also some other elements that I will explain, is increasing by an additional 32.7 billion kuna and totaling 63 billion and 412 million kuna for this year. What I repeat, as I presented it at the government's session, and I will now say, if there is one good thing to be pointed out in these amendments and in addition to the state budget for this year, and that is the fact that we have already realised more than half of it. With the state budget being proposed, €35.6 billion has already been realised before the covid outbreak itself, you remember that on the domestic market we have issued the cheapest and longest in terms of the hand-holding bond on the domestic market. Three tranches totaling 15 billion kuna, with it being the shortest with a coupon, or with a turnover of 0.25%, the cheapest ever. And for the first time, we've issued a 20-year bond. We also had some other maturity in small arms. After the crisis itself and how it is between me and the legal obligation to report to the parent Committee on Finance and the state budget, and the HS in the meantime we have realised several transactions. On the one hand, with some of the largest commercial banks, we have made several bilateral arrangements totalling 6.1 billion kuna, an average maturity of about five years, on average about 1.3 to 1.5% of the annual interest. After that we also... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the bank to the bank, we'll explain everything later. Yeah, it's important we'll only do it later when you're replicating. After that, we also had the refinance of a large vault record that amounted to 7 billion and 800 million kuna last week, it was refinanced under conditions, meaning at an annual level of 0.06 so almost zero, and a few days ago we issued a bond on the domestic market of 1 billion 455 million euros per 7 years with an annual interest rate and a coupon of 0.75%. So it's kind of an integral part already done. What remains before us, so in this financing account is the continuation of our activities as on the domestic capital market, the projected activity and on the international capital market in terms of the issue of the euro bond because we cannot ignore the fact that in the middle of the 7th month, a billion dollars of international bonds, issued 10 years ago, as well as some other elements, are coming to us. We are also counting and the financing account provides for sources of funds from international financial institutions. All this time, we have been conducting an intensive dialogue with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank and some others, as well as of course with the EU. You know well that at the EU level under our presidency, unfortunately not as quickly as in our circumstances, but it is on certain instruments, so, among other things, if you have heard well about that programme, so-called. SURE English word krilatica or shortcut that practically replicates in translation this measure that we have put into office, which is helping to pay part of the salary or to preserve jobs for employees. It's all an integral part of this financing account, and that's what we predicted among other things. And only the last part of the funding bill do I know that there are a lot of MPs here who behave or have acted and are always connected to local self-government in the financing account we've predicted the resources of 2 billion kuna and 900 million kuna, what we've called a unambiguous loan for local and regional self-government units and what we pay off as we've already indicated ourselves when we've represented measures, depending on the possibilities of the funds we've come to, how the requirements arrive, how we process them so we transfer them. And it's also a very important part of HBOR. HBOR in these circumstances and all these measures that we have put into operation is an extremely important institution, mainly in that part concerning new credit liquid funds for entrepreneurs, so that these new programmes that have been put into operation, as well as the existing ones, as well as all the measures that HBOR has taken into account anyway, whether we are talking about moratorium and some reprogrammes of the existing, but, excuse me, mainly new commitments, in the amount of about 3 billion kuna we have foreseen in this financing account, so what we have mentioned in the circle of measures. Given the circumstances and the great challenge of preserving liquidity in the system, the idea is that the State budget is a central point because it is much simpler, not only to coordinate but also to approach, both domestic and international markets, however, from the level of the central state budget, and then disperse this liquidity in the manner in which it should be. Here, so, thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203695	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have 23 replicas. I'll only read it if someone may not be registered because a lot of you have been answering. So we go like this: Bulj, Grbin, Maras, Jovanovic, Grmoja, Glasovac, Čuraj, Zekanovic, Mišić, Žagar, Pernar, Perić, Panenić, Mrsić, Felak, Ante Babić, Lacković, Lalovac, Mrak-Taritaš, Dobrović, Strick, Bauk, Bilek, Šuker, Borić, Greece. Okay, there's a lot of it, here, I'll write it down, Shuker, Boric, Greek, so 26 we have it. We're on our way, please just hold on for a minute. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203696	Thank you very much. Minister, the downfall is economics, tourism. However, you forgot one very important thing, the World Bank warns us. The biggest downfall will be from our citizens sending money to their families. We know it's 6% of GDP and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies that have evicted our citizens. How much you.../incomprehensible/... that's 18 billion kuna a year, our people from abroad are sending to their families. How much do you expect there, and we need to know that Croatia is at risk to the World Bank, what do you expect and what you have done for those people who are in Ireland, Germany, who you have driven out of your policies, what have you done that they can at least apply to the Employment Office in Croatia? What are the measures for these people who have been filling this budget while you have boasted about the effects and growth of the economy, and in fact because of the bad policies are What do you expect from the evidence? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203697	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203698	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here are the previous circumstances when you've opened that topic in some way, potentiated the wording or are practically transfers from the abroad of our people who are working, are an integral part of it, and then I'm answering, and now I'm going to answer, they're part of the balance of payments, so something that's in the CNB's intelligence, which is very clear, very unequivocally, transparently, all the citizens see these figures and that you're also quoting. It is our responsibility, not to predict and plan and in some way to elaborate any details of the balance of payments, but to consider when planning. Because what you're saying, and if one of our people working outside is transferring funds to their family, to their neighbors, etc., those coins through different visions, either mostly consumption or whatever, they have, of course, an effect on the budget. It's all an integral part of our projections and projections that I've just elaborated, so they'll obviously have an effect on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203699	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203700	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It is clear that one of the sectors most affected by this crisis is touristic, and in particular small tenants are affected. I'll read you what's on the official website of the IRS. The tenants who applied for a postponement of the tax until 30.3.2020 for the obligation to arrive on 31.3.2020 granted the right to postpone the payment and the obligation until 30.6.2020 and will not be cancelled. Dear Minister, you and I both know that small tenants will not make the revenues planned for the 4th and 5th and most likely for the 6th month. Since the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given to the Tax Administration's pages that these obligations will not be written off, and that we are today, or we are discussing rebalancing, my question to you is whether these obligations will be written off or will be small renters have to pay after 30.6? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203701	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203702	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have made very clear and transparent, unequivocally all the criteria prescribed at the level of the Tax Administration, I thank you and for the replica, given that you have also potentiated and I am pleased to see in the media space that in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of praise at the expense of the Tax Administration and I will use this pay phone, too, because I think my colleagues in the Tax Administration have done a great deal, this has not been simple and all these measures that have been put into operation, the criteria, but even more important their implementation as such. As for private tenants, we've talked a lot about this in the form of previous circles of tax reform, I think we can conclude that we have concluded other than those excluded from paying certain tax obligations or zero rates anywhere, that this is the least taxable segment of the general tax system and of course we will not ignore it as such, but given all the circumstances, is, when we talk about the average amount per bed of 300 kuna per year, in fact in some way It also reveals what we're talking about, but anyway, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as it is very clear, the criteria are prescribed and defined [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] And the IRS does it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203703	Now let's go to the request for a break from colleagues of Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203704	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking on behalf of the Bridge Club for a 10-minute break on the rebalancing proposal. Like I said, colleagues and colleagues, this rebalance, i.e. This crisis exposed all the policies of the bad that were towards the Croatian people. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. As I said in the replica, 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna is from our evicted people. Agriculture was destroyed, when we were giving the most subsidies, you were talking to the ministers about self-sufficiency, when I was talking about self-sufficiency and proposing laws, amendments and saying that we had to encourage domestic production, not foreign GMO products, that's when they told me they were my ticks. Tourism, absolutely forbidden everything, will fail tourism. The only thing that won't fail is the election, and even those who are self-insulated ministers will be able to go to the polls, and our caterers are in quarantine. They're all, so it just doesn't work. And these evicted people of ours were the first to lose their jobs, that's the youth you've sent out to bad policies. I'm not happy with your answer. What are you offering these people who left Slavonia because of the bad policies that went out of my Dalmatian burn? The only thing you're saying about local self-government is that you're positive. You can see in Split-Dalmatia County which is a creation. A creature that functions like a mob. They destroyed my Zagora, 100,000 people have left since they led Sanader and Boban and so on. Take some action. Let's stop the county, and local self-government will be able to function, so the viruses won't enter where they don't smell, and we'll be able to go to the elections of those who are in isolation. This is a shameful demonstration of the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203705	Thank you, fellow Bull. I approve of the break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 11 and 40. It's 11:00.31. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] First in line, or third in all, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203707	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. My question is simple, I saw in the budget rebalancing that the amount intended to restore damage in the city of Zagreb is below 100 million kuna. What I'm interested in, that's 400 times less, so 400 is less than the estimated damage in the city of Zagreb. So I'm curious whether you as a man living in Zagreb, are you a member of the HDZ who supports M. Bandic in the City Assembly, you think it's okay to go to elections without the passed Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb and that it's okay not to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb and tell them that the state is behind them? So I think it's a shame that after 45 days, so now almost 50 days in the city of Zagreb, the city looks like a ruin and that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the current city government treats us this way. I must tell you that I am sincerely not only angry but also sad, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203708	Thank you very much, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203709	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have seen well in the budget rebalancing is secured at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering of an additional 100 million kuna, to add to that the amount already standing at the level of 41 million kuna to the Environmental Protection Fund as regards subsidising the part of the price price of those so-called. condensation boilers, therefore, we are talking about the amounts foreseen for interventions in this rebalancing process, which will allow, in the short term, and should enable, of course, the return of citizens whose homes are damaged due to earthquakes, but also what you will hear in two days at the cabinet session and all of our follow-up that, among other things, in a horizon of such a single comprehensive law and result in the resulting because not a single budget is called such a project or damage or all together for a year, this is a multi-annual issue in which it should be approached very systematically and in one appropriate way to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203710	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203711	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my question concerns health care. Since health care is concerned, I cannot begin by not congratulating all nurses and technicians of the International Sisterhood Day and thanking for the tremendous efforts that make them maintain a health care system in a state that can meet the needs of Croatian citizens. There are over 41,000 registered nurses in Croatia, of which nearly 35,000 work in the health system, which is 45% of the health care system. I'm afraid you haven't taken the health problem seriously enough because the debts are certainly close to 5 billion kuna, I don't see how you're going to solve that debt, and all that's waiting for us in the next period is just an increase in the health care system. Also, you have unseriously approached the additional insurance problem because it was necessary to provide additional funds for 200,000 insurance companies that would be free of charge of the supplementary insurance policy, which is 160 million since the beginning of this year, there is no such thing as a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203712	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203713	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's how long I'm going to be able to answer your line, but since there are more doctors in the assembly, I'm going to believe these replicas on the health issue. 8.5 billion is the situation at the end of last year's total debt in the health system when all of the total is summed up to 3 billion and 800 million kuna. The trend in growth is continued and this year, I have to say we have data in the third month, we don't have local data yet, but as far as HZZO is concerned, and especially as far as so-called. Colloquium-named state hospitals can conclude that this debt is continued. What I was saying at the outset, so we focused on the area and the health issue before the rebalancing of the whole series of redistributions within the legal possibilities. In particular, what was at that moment was the most important insurance of respirators, protective masks, etc. And we'll continue in that direction. However, the financing of this figure overall exceeds the problem of Covid himself and one rebalancing, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203714	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203715	Thank you. Dear Minister, as far as this rebalancing and its indicators are concerned, we understand everything. The elections are at the door, so budget spending is expressed by total expenditures not reduced by a single kuna. On the other hand, it envisions a huge drop in budget revenues, some 23 billion kuna, which would be a 16% drop. So it's clear that this isn't a real budget rebalance that this is a fake, so this is a fake budget rebalance and we're going to have a real budget rebalance after the election. And I ask you, how do you think Croatian citizens will feel about the situation in Croatia in the 9th, 10th month, and how do they see it now? Will he be more optimistic at the 9th and 10th months or are they more optimistic now? Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203716	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203717	Thank you very much. Well, I got a lot of labels in the Croatian Parliament, the most impressive one was an accountant or an accountant, so I denied it, and I'm definitely not a sociologist and psychologist who can assess the state of the nation either today or in a few months. It is our role and the tasks of all together to make this psychological element improve, improve and in the given circumstances in fact all we can give that, as well as such challenging situations and their negative effects minimise as much as possible. As far as rebalancing is concerned, I will repeat once again, the budget's expenditure side, despite the needs of 7 and a few billion kuna for higher expenditures, remains unchanged. It is a great, great effort that we have managed to do in just a few weeks to keep this spending side at the same level and not to create additional pressure on taxpayers or additional pressure on public debt. But the fact is 23.2 billion Kuna is less in the revenue of the budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203718	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are a parent, you have children, and you are likely to know that in the last month and a half the only person who maintains the system of education in life are teachers, teachers and parents. No. The Ministry of Science and Education there is a complete breakdown of the system. Can you please answer the question why did you decide to reward this teacher and teacher by taking everything from them through the budget rebalancing? So, not only the basis for 4%, like all public and state officials, but also the Santa Claus and the regression and the jubilee and all the accessories they fought for for two months on strike. Was it really necessary to take them absolutely, absolutely everything and bring them literally to the beggar stick?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203720	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203721	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so of course I cannot agree with your findings primarily with qualifications, we are still in charge of dialogue and our offer is on the table. At the same time, the conversation continues, and at this point, I wouldn't prejudge anything. I join as with previous commendation and congratulations to all medical staff as well as to our teachers and who maintain also well apostrophe with the help of parents mainly for teaching, for children in the teaching of lower classes education system as such. I will repeat once again, so when there was a topic and a strike with an increase in the base of 1.1% and 3%, respectively, for the system of education 3% that came into force at the end of last year, total salaries for more than 20% of the government's mandate. So what we're talking about and what's kind of on the table as an offer, you well know that we've been very clear on the strike, for a certain part of these increases the funds weren't originally as intended, nor originally But again, 20 percent increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203722	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203723	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers in your speech and projections, of course, predicting the decline of GDP here we have predicted of 9.4 we have heard that the commission is slightly more beneficial to our economy and predicts a smaller decline, which is good, which I can say that this rebalancing does not predict a reduction in state spending or budget itself, and we know that the share of GDP is 20%. What is not good, which states that the assumption of exporting services is a 70% drop, and if our tourism drops 50%, that's 10% of GDP, so that's it, total tourism if it falls by 50%, that's a 10% reduction in GDP. So, according to this, we expect GDP growth in the last quarter. And I'm interested in what about the European Course Mechanism, or what about the introduction of the EUR, given this debt that goes beyond 86% of GDP, what are we going to do about it? Because I'm not the Kunophyl that I prefer the kuna to my own citizens, and I think that the EUR would help and help its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203724	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203725	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative last week at the government meeting met the last of 19 measures that we took almost a year ago in that letter of intent to enter the exchange rate mechanism II, so the last of 19 and now we will also write a new memo where we will inform the European institutions about this. As for the Master criteria you are alluding to, or the specific question of public debt, so I'm going to go over it one more time and say it. So 60% is that limit, as far as it's going to be tomorrow and what's going to happen I wouldn't be going into it right now at this point of debate, but if you're above 60% of the drop, there has to be a minimum 1/20th difference between the current level and that 60%. Croatia has reduced public debt four times faster over the past four years than those provisions say. So we met the criteria. This effect, which is ultimately how we now see it one-time on public debt growth to 86.7, should not distract us from this further path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203726	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203727	Dear Minister. I would like you to tell us, to the Croatian public, how much will we get in this next period, the grant money from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203728	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203729	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, out of the current envelope a good part of the funds, and there are also great efforts made by the cabinet and individual colleagues of ministers, mainly Pavić and Aladrović, where we have made redistribution and re-location out of the existing envelopes that have been allotted for certain purposes to what is most important at the moment, and yet I repeat this horizontal measure of paying part of the salaries or preserving jobs to the economy. You also know well that behind our chairmanship dialogue or negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework are under way, when and how they will be completed, we will see more. We, of course, did and did everything to make it our presidency, the covid had its own kind of effect and effect. Of course, we are talking about grants or aid schemes, but parallel to that, at EU level, they are either put into office and some additional schemes concerning credit arrangements that we will also take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203730	Comrade Misic, please welcome your request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203731	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I asked you an extremely simple question, you didn't answer me. I asked how many, you didn't answer me and I now, this is my time let me ask you a question now, and I'll actually give you an answer because it says in the rebalancing, and that's the number you didn't tell me. I'll read what's written in the rebalancing, so when we talk about revenues, there's a 623 item of assistance from abroad, about a gift from entities within the general budget. That item says that in the next period or after the rebalancing period, we will be planning to get 500 million kuna, namely 502 million kuna less money than we originally thought with the budget we adopted at the end of last year. So 500 million kunas less. For Croatians and Croats who follow this session, let them know, 18 billion 756 million kuna were planned, and there will be 18 billion 253 million kuna. So, I've pointed out more than once, and this time I'm going to say, European solidarity is gone, we're not going to get any lip from the EU, and you said yourself we didn't get, that there's something else being negotiated, and you've been rebalanced the budget for less money. So, the European project fell on the first test, on the first step, on the first obstacle, meaning solidarity was neither there nor there, and this is one empirical evidence that you did not want to comment on or that you did not want to tell the Croatian public loudly and clearly. When it is most difficult for us, rather than for the EU in which the Croatian Government has sworn to help us, and we find it most difficult because we are a tourist country, almost exclusively a tourist country, the EU is taking our money, or you are planning less money with the rebalancing process than we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203732	Okay, the break will be approved. We'll continue at 12.05, first in line, fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203733	We continue, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Misic Ivica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203734	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I see the state is in trouble with the finances but I am pleased when you opened the highway now in Slavonia. I personally think you run good finances but I must say that today's rail traffic is 15% higher compared to earlier, so I ask you if you are in rebalancing, I see that you are not, but will you predict that the railway from Zagreb to Vinkovac is being made? Why? Because we see the highway itself feeding all the highways of Slavonia towards Serbia, all the highways of our food, so the Vinkovci railway, once through the railway station, went through 450 trains in 24 hours and now it's increasing, so Europe should think about it, now more trains go with freight traffic and that's what I want to say to Slavonia and think about it, and I think now it's time to do the same thing as you did on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203735	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203736	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, you've been well apostrophe and in some way and a trace of this thinking of yours is in line with what we're talking about and in these circumstances that I've been talking about many times and speaking and replicating, and on the fall of income and on the fall of economic activity and so on, there's one part that we can't ignore, and it's investment activity and the state needs to make a contribution, I say again in accordance with the possibilities and the overall framework. We have also seen before the rebalancing and in the past days and with colleagues from the Croatian roads, highways, from HZ, of course, the resolute Minister of Col. Butković, which is also how to maintain these plans that are originally envisaged, with which to go further, but in any case, always that emphasis on public investments, mainly those that we can finance and co-finance through European funds, so European aid through cheap sources of funding to continue as such, so that on this trail, if something is not foreseen in this budget and rebalancing, it is certainly intended to be in perspective as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203737	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203738	Thank you. Dear Minister, we could say that this budget is short-sighted and short-sighted. Why is that? I read it from your words. You said that, and it's financially correct, that you've been overstretched to maintain your expenditures at the given values, at initial values, and there's practically no regrets because it wasn't easy to fill those redistributions. But it's quite clear that this isn't the last budget rebalancing this year, that there will be more, so I'm saying it's short breath. And why is he shortsighted? You repeated this and when the budget was made, you repeated the same thing, which is a key thing for the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy in general. When industrial production and exports fall, we paradoxically fall and import. And that is the key in the structure of Croatia's GDP, and that is why I miss this political message in this budget that, which is reform, what things we intend to do to change this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203739	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203740	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this import addiction, we have talked about it personally and here in the Assembly a lot, and I think now it is also getting some additional, additional importance, and I would say with more knowledge very clearly, very unequivocal, fact-finding, which is that these circumstances imply, in some way, the strengthening of and domestic components of self-sufficiency and ensuring self-sufficiency throughout a series of segments of food and agricultural production, industry, here in this particular case, pharmaceutical or chemical industry, there is, of course, a question of energy and energy sufficientness, unfortunately, we still haven't found any more significant oil supplies in our area, so we are a net importer of certain categories, but again reduce that import dependence, to reduce some kind of dependence on some global flows that you can't influence, it's some idea that we see in this crisis. If I say one rebalancing or one budget can recognize or not, but it's one of the key reforms that we all need to do together, it's not just a matter of state and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203741	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203742	Dear Minister Maric. The educators lost their raises, and you lied to them, and you told them we'd raise your wages, and now you've changed your mind that you wouldn't, and then you're putting the guilt of God on the crown. But Mr. Maric, you're the ones who banned the work, you're the ones who pushed people into quarantine and isolation, you're the ones who banned tourists from coming. And please explain to me, you are a very smart man, those who drive tourist buses, for example. So the carriers, who took these buses on the lease they're banned, the tourists are banned from entering the country, let's explain as a smart man from what they're going to pay the lysing wars that are still coming at their checkout? You don't care about these people at all, and you don't care about Croatia. They shed crocodile tears for the Croatian people, but these are not unfortunately tears but tears of joy when you devour them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203743	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203744	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. A lot of things you kind of said, it's hard to answer at all in one minute. I haven't lied to anyone, either to teachers or union leaders with whom we conducted negotiations last year for this year. I will repeat again as I did just before, and the honourable representative answered, during this term, we have been conducting a constructive dialogue since the first day of the day, each time resulting in some sort of step. ... No, it wasn't just at the end, but whatever it is, I'll never change your interpretation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Each year resulted in an increase in wages and further perspectives and a further look forward. We want and have always recognized the hard work of all civil and public service employees, those you too knew very often in your public appearances to call ugly names. For us, they are very correct and very good employees who deserve more wages than everyone in the economy, but all in line with the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203745	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203746	I'd like to say he insulted me and all the public sector employees when he said I called them ugly names. That's not true, Mr. Maric, I'm against austerity measures and you know why I'm against austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203747	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203748	Chairman. My colleague Pernar injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not refer to the Rules of Procedure and did not speak about it but literally replicated it, so I believe he deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203749	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, okay. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203750	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. We are witnesses of the rate of fees or salaries paid to entrepreneurs or employees, which is more than 480,000 employees who received a record period of work compensation or support provided by the Government and were over a billion kuna from those redistributions. We are here now to further ensure both subsidies and household benefits, etc. Another 4.9 billion kuna is actually ensuring stability both for entrepreneurs and for the safety of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203751	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203752	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here you are, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, follow every item and each figure of the account, and let's call it the liquid part, in particular. And you know well yourself as a longtime financier that it's not easy to secure all these funds in a short time, but of course we're not looking for any laurels here right now, and I don't know what merits, but the fact is that we did and it was our intention from the very beginning to design these measures as quickly as possible and it was clear our intensity and when we first came to HS and when we had the debate the clubs supported our efforts and we're grateful for that. But I'm saying, it was even more important to go as soon as possible into that implementation and that's what we did. I said we secured liquidity for payments that started or started in the 5th month for the 4th month, and we'll do that for next month's payments in June for May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203753	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203754	Dear Minister. Presenting the draft budget that you are today and changing, you said that it was developed and the view of the government was that it was developed and it was in the conditions of normal functioning of the economy. Now we have a crisis situation in the economy where needs are significantly higher, and we have remained at the same level, so this particular finding... we have preserved the expenditures that were, and now that we need to strengthen, now that the needs are much greater, strengthen. It is not just the structure of the state budget as such that it flows from the state register it goes to all the needs it has and logically would be expected now that the needs are greater if the state that stands behind the budget, behind the revenue side, to further increase its investment, its consumption, its investment, to ensure the rapid return of the economy to the one we expect in future time based on what was so far. So here I think there's still a move to make from the current holding state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203755	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203756	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what I've been trying to do in my opening part, actually, and I'm going to elaborate again, so I'm going to say, so the need to increase and grow on the dissipated side of the budget over 7 billion kuna, we've compensated with savings from other items. These savings have not been permanently saved by some of them, permanently eliminated, any delays in certain projects, acquisitions etc., any real savings, Croatia presides over the EU Council, but numerous meetings that should have been planned to take place in Zagreb and throughout Beautiful Ours will not happen or happen because of objective circumstances. So a whole series, and I'd say, of all these things that eventually have to turn into one picture of the budget. But the budget as such is the answer to all these circumstances because on the one hand it ensures the implementation of these measures that we have put into operation, but also, of course, it must look at what will happen after that and just before I answered the question of investments, whether the budget, whether the extra budget users, were all expensive, on this trail we must continue, because how important it is that Croatia fall this year, the first year of the crisis, is so, I would say even more important bids With past experience, how soon we'll be back. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203757	The next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203758	Dear Minister. You've dropped all of the 6.4 billion kunas for support, or part of it is, you're going to, but somewhere there's a figure of about 6.5 billion. Part of this is EU funds, and you know it's all support and it's about support, and you've given it to companies that pay dividends. Are you ready to announce all the companies that paid dividends and got support? Who will control the correctness of this because the State Inspectorate can't do it because he doesn't have the authority, and only an HZZ that doesn't have people. And on the other hand, do you think about, given that you gave tens of millions of kunas to large companies, to enter the state into the property of these companies and to do what Germany did that would get into one big... A very clear question to which I want very clear answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203759	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203760	So clear always the answer you're looking for, of course that's your legitimate right, I can say that we've been thinking about all these things and the details, we've talked about so far, what we've done would be an idea to put the criteria into operation so that they can go ahead and implement these measures as soon as possible. We have all said from the beginning that it will be publicly and transparently known, so so this list, HZZ, was published a few days ago, weeks ago, so we all have an insight from the first to the last one that received both the amount of support and the number of employees. As regards the control itself, whether someone has abused, or whether certain irregularities have been identified, and the HZZ, as you have well said, as a concession provider or such a type, not concessions, pardons but support, is obliged to control, but also other institutions, of course we pair certain data between HZZ, IRS, etc., and of course the institutions will act in accordance with their powers and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203761	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203762	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So I take this opportunity first of all, to commend the government's work and to bring all these measures worth nearly 7 billion kunas that helped the Croatian economy survive this era of the crown and to preserve jobs, not to see those ominous forecasts come true of 400 thousand unemployed. Thank God, this has not happened or will happen, but my question is going towards a further follow-up of projects that have been launched primarily, major infrastructure projects in rail transport and road construction, a concrete project of construction of railways from the Križovci through Koprivnica to the Hungarian border. Also, fast roads from the Križevci towards Koprivnica, whether these projects will continue at a pace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203763	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203764	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The answer is yes, it will continue. The dynamics of course, depending on the overall possibilities, the financial plans relating to individual extra-financial users or state-owned enterprises that are the ones that are taking these types of investments, we tried to fit into these things that you are talking about, which is to continue investment flows, but again I say, and in accordance with certain and certain possibilities. We have worked on this, and we will continue to work, as I have answered earlier, and my colleague Misic on his question about the direction towards Slavonia and Vinkovci, also, Koprivnica-križevci, any part of Croatia, we all know very well what the effects, multiplicative and others are, public investments, of course, more so if they can be further co-financed by EU grants, so that's all we care about, but again, we have to put ourselves in the frame of all our options, and then they will, among other things, dictate that dynamic you asked me about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203765	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203766	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the budget rebalancing and implementation of the State budget have been enabled to redistribute funds within the State budget itself, but also in charge, both domestic and international markets. So, given our foreign exchange reserves, what is the role of the CNB in this case in such a debt and is it really considering using these foreign reserve assets that actually serve to maintain liquidity in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203767	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203768	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what's important and what's kind of a good thing about this crisis is that we've practically been at the table since the first day and brought in and we have the CNB, so their rope leadership, i.e. all the professional services and a few things we've done together, is, in particular, a very important topic about these assets and the source of liquidity, craftsmanship for entrepreneurs and all those affected by the coronary crisis. But also, ensuring liquidity for the whole state's functioning, I think we're all well aware and all in one way, I'd say a little harder way, to see, that is, the importance and role of the state and all its services, the police, the fire department, the health care and that I'm not counting on it now. And it is certainly important that this liquidity be provided in an adequate manner because the CNB is an independent regulator and it, in accordance with its and the legal powers that the Croatian Parliament has given, is acting, however, I think all of these activities that we have done in terms of funding are seen to be, among other things, an integral part of all of our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203769	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203770	Thank you, Vice President. So, Minister, one question. Whether measures to support the economy for the 6th, 7th and 8th months are envisaged in the budget rebalancing or, on the 9th, 10th, the crown will return. Is that somewhere? And the teaching question, therefore, since the expenditure side has remained fully the same 147 billion kuna, since we have no projections for 2021, we can't know in any way how you're going to dig any further holes, and in that part, this budget rebalancing proposal would be incomplete already in the 6th month. What's my question, if you've been redistributing some of the money, so you've taken the Central State Sport Office for sport buildings of 16 million, for local sports and Croatian... 14 million, will you have more to take from anyone or will you go to equalising the VAT rate or raising the VAT as it has been in previous crises? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203771	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203772	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You asked a lot of things, how much do I get, so, as we said at the outset, still representing measures, we had to underline somewhere in time, so as to support measures for the economy, we're talking about measures for March, April and May with payments in the coming months, that's what the budget provides for, as well as measures in the tax section, where we also said, three months with a possible possibility of extension for an additional 3, depending on how the situation is going to be, as such, developing. As for the effects and looks ahead, that in the convergence program is the view of next year. As a rule, we brought the Convergence Programme for a three-year period, this time we agreed at EU level to watch this year and next year and it is very clear, so after the drop of 9.4% this year, we predict a growth of about 6.1%. However, the EU Commission is also more optimistic than we are, even 7.5, and as far as budget deficits are concerned with these 6.8% this year, the next year is 2.4% of GDP. As for VAT and tax policy, we will always talk about it and think about it. No additional tax changes are provided for at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203773	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in the rebalancing regarding additional HBOR funds, so can you please just some number of how currently HBOR has approved funds along with business banks to business entities because we see that HAMAG BICRO is actually, we're reading from the media that in fact all of these funds for coronaryvirus, means for the lending program, that more than 5 thousand requests, are 10% that they've just been processed. We see that this line is already closed and other lines, so here's the clean information maybe around HBOR because you mentioned there would be additional funds, as currently the situation with these funds towards entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203775	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203776	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, on a daily basis I get updated data by 11.5, not only HBOR because through the FINA system, perhaps here, pure information and for you, as we have formed and established this entire system that each interested in liquid assets appears on the FINA web interface, FINA is this unique place where it is, among other things, working and then calculating that so-called FINA. COVID score and afterwards is directed to each commercial bank, i.e. HBOR is the one that will provide that 50% of the funds. To, so yesterday, 8 300 is the calculation of COVID score, the number of applications totaling 15 180, companies are mostly looking for liquidity loans, but also for delays, so the moratories of those credit obligations. Also, all that data and all that, of course, everything in accordance with the legal obligations we will now be doing, clearly and transparently publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203777	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203778	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. We all know that this rebalancing that we're going to discuss today is actually a form, the real rebalancing will come in the fall, when we see real frames and real problems. But what I'm always interested in, and I'm a couple of times, and I've asked you a question about the day after. So, I suppose there are certain arrangements at EU finance ministers' level, I think there are other talks, which means the Green Plan, which means economic development, which means the activities that we will be doing the day after, that Croatia is preparing for some new normality as part of other EU countries. I think that, among other things, with this rebalance and the one that will be in the fall, it is important to stress that we see in which direction we are going, what reforms, which are possibly economic elements, and how much more is the Green Plan that Europe has announced so much. I personally thought it was extremely good and praised, as much as he looked at all, whether he was in some stages and how Croatia would stand up to that Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203779	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203780	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the lesson and just now that my colleague Zekanovic, the esteemed representative, has also opened as a topic, you are now refering to it. So at EU level the focus is on one side, as in our case, so what we can do in the short term in these circumstances, and among other things, we are talking about revising that European Stabilisation Mechanism, and we are talking about this so-called "Stabilisation Mechanism". SURE employee support program, but just like us, we're focused pretty much on exactly what you said, the day after. So look ahead and after this. And that's why he's so-called. Recovery Fund or Recovery Fund, something to start talking about and talking about. I have said it several times, yet it is 27 member states and we cannot expect the speed of designing and implementing the measures to be as fast as we do, but this is among other things something that is parallel to the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which, here is now co-cidating with COVID, but actually represents the future 7 years, i.e. the next 7-year financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203781	Next replica, distinguished representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203782	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have noticed one interestingness in this budget, although practically in the same portfolio, two extra-profit users of the state budget of Croatia and the Environmental Protection Fund, practically have a diametrically opposite financial situation. One of them is in debt for 700 million kuna, and the other have surpluses of over a billion kuna that are transferred from year to year. Of course, this individual approach, therefore, to its problems with banks, benefits exclusively from banks. And secondly, I have compared that clientelism as a definition of decision-making for the allocation of funds is very present, i.e. You mentioned 41 million for condensation boilers, for example in the Environmental Protection Fund. So whoever knows the energy and solves the heat system today wouldn't be able to separate that kind of state money for something that's only 5 to 10 times better and the whole import equipment is, so that money is could be in the function of developing the economy through solutions for which we have domestic producers, unfortunately not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203783	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203784	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I know that, in general, you know, when you have acted as a minister as important, important financial plans and the budget of extra- budget users, I know that in general and when we are talking in the Assembly, a very small percentage of the replica and the debate comes down to them, I think that they are important from the perspective of public finances but even more from the perspective of their contribution to economic activity and what we are trying to do all the time and as much as possible to push towards the fact that this investment activity is the one that creates economic value, which gives added value, so now when we speak and analyze each of them individually, but mainly when we look at all together and surely their financial plans should maintain the naturally limited possibilities we are now facing, there were just a few questions about road and rail infrastructure, but also as regards energy recovery, protection from some floods etc., etc. These are all things that should be foreseen in the financial plans as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203785	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203786	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Well, none of the governments in the 2020 budget accounted for an epidemic of the coronary virus, let alone the consequences of this epidemic. The current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I think, is perfectly dealing with all these challenges, all the statistics are talking about, and when we talk about the rebalancing of this budget, it is important to stress that it does not stop with investment because investment means jobs. When we talk about the area of Varazdin County, it has been built since 2002. Trying to build an OS St. Elijah. Since then, six governments have changed and only in the term of office has this one started to build and I hope that in the next two years it will be built, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203787	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203788	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's your replica, too. Well, here's to teaching and the previous ones involved, I repeat rail, road infrastructure, environmental protection infrastructure, water and, of course, the education system. We're here, what you said and you noticed at last week's and the government's meeting on the school in St. Iliji but also some other schools I would say, even in the media space, the public space already knows, can also list the school of N. Andric in Vukovar, the crafts school in Sisak, Donji Miholjac, Krapina, Split, Children's center in Zadar, is located in Sl. Schools for children with special needs, M. Ambruš, i.e. with developmental difficulties, M. Stojanović in Babina Greda as well as in Čakovec, so all these schools are listed in one conclusion of the Government that, among other things, depending on the different dynamics and implementation of certain measures whether the collection of documentation, procurement, competition and so on, the realization that the Government is behind these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203789	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203790	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's a very difficult situation, and I believe it's been a very hard job to prepare a rebalance for which we've all been a little bit and we've been afraid it's going to look, but given the government's decision to support both the economy and our citizens, I think we've done a pretty solid job, and I'm just interested, there's a certain reduction means redistribution because there's no, meaning spending cuts, there are certain obligations that have been made by signing contracts with institutions, associations, economics, etc., so I'm wondering if these contracts will be fulfilled by the basis of those rules as they're signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203791	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203792	And under the most difficult circumstances as these are, of course, the rule of law as such must be, and so certain obligations that have been made, should be discussed and negotiated and taken into account and new circumstances but also, at least our position as Government and we have shown this in several cases, not only to go without such a kind of dialogue. So, in the given circumstances as you know, I will repeat once again, practically 1/5 of the revenue has been cut out from the state budget itself, so 23.2 billion kuna for this year that we are not going to collect, then, of course, some other items on the expenditure side must be audited, but we are always ready for dialogue, for discussion, for constructive approach, if something cannot be realised within the shortest possible time, of course, there is some dynamic component that we then take into account and so on what you refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203793	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your opening work, you mentioned extracurricular users. So their original incomes have been reduced by 11% compared to the plan, but there has been a decrease in costs at an opportunity of 4%. Also, a very important segment in the rebalancing of this budget is the unambiguous assets that will be given in terms of loans to local self-government units, why am I saying this? Because, as is predicted to reduce the income of extra budget users, there will also be a reduction in the incomes of local self-government units not only from income tax, but also from the basis of municipal compensation, and these are the two highest income units of local self-government and what, with all the good that the government has done with these measures to preserve jobs and all the expensive, what must not happen to us in the future, that what I say, in a certain way, under the government's cap, it becomes an indifference generator because, if that happens to us, then we are in great danger. So now, given these indicators, we have an opportunity to act preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203795	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203796	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're right because that's exactly what one of our basic intentions of all these measures was to focus on preserving jobs and paying salaries, preserving liquidity systems. Not only are countries such as those in some narrow or narrowest circle or sense, but also much wider, the state is big, the state has very much of its own in some way dealings with different segments, not just economies and societies and states, which should make it easier for others to have their liquid problems, and not in some way even make them impossible and difficult. So what I was saying at the outset, when I spoke to the speaker about the financing account, that our intention from the beginning was that all of these financing needs were, as far as possible, centralized, not because of some discretionary decision, but rather because of a simpler way, not that now 576 units are going on the capital market and financial markets in search of liquidity. It's much simpler that we at the central level and then these estimated 2 billion and 900, as we have now placed in the financing account in an adequate way according to the criteria that we have established, disperse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203797	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203798	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, congratulations to you and the Ministry of Finance, the entire government on everything you do to keep public finances on one level that is promising. What interests me is the tax on accommodation units, the flat tax that was already in question today. Since I come from local self-government, and we have almost 110 thousand small tenants on the coast and they certainly expect this tourist season, and every expenditure is important to them. So I ask, given some of the possibilities that exist, which is your next move. Whether we're going to have at least a partial write-off, a full write-off, means all the debts we have for this year, given the season it's going to be, or maybe you'll give local self-government a chance to make some different decisions in the course of the year, given that you've brought that power down to them through tax changes, which may also be one of the solutions. But, of course, we'll see what happens during the season, but at least some hope to see what happens on that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203799	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203800	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, teaching what my colleague Grbin had just asked, I didn't have time to answer everything, but therefore, and it's well quoted from the Tax Administration website, so we didn't ignore that segment either, so private renters, given the circumstances and given the forecasts regarding the tourist season, surely one part that will, and of course, have effects. At the same time, as I said earlier, so it's in terms of tax, sort of a burden, among the lowest, if not the lowest tax segment as such, but of course, we mustn't ignore it. So, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, as this system is formed, it is paid quarterlyly, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, it is practically, the release has already been done as such, it writes very clearly also in those criteria that we have defined and prescribed and which stand on the tax administration's website. For more and more, as so far, as far as local self-government is concerned, we are very often open to this topic, ready and open to discussions, depending on the development of the situation, you know, when we started with this additional fiscal decentralisation, that we knew and extended certain deadlines for city and municipal councils to make such decisions. So, about that we're always ready to sit at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203801	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today you have unfortunately avoided answering many direct questions. I'll just remind you. So how many state institutions, HBOR and HAMAG have granted loans so far, not how many applications, but how many have they approved? The second question is, why didn't you ban the payment of profits to companies that used support to preserve jobs? My colleague Miranda is the question. Why didn't you let the big companies that took large amounts through this support, get the state into co-ownership of these companies. Half%, 1%, 3%, but for the record. Why did you say that support here is compensated by investment costs, more or less, and even from EU funds. Therefore, investment, wage cuts and the rest which has a very negative impact on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203803	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203804	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I also expected your particular replica or question, not the sublimation of all the previous ones. I will submit everything to my colleagues by the end of the debate, as well as to everyone, as regards the specific figures of HBOR and HAMAG, I simply cannot have all the data available at all times. I gave that report I get every morning, and that's about those demands. As approved, as regards HBOR, as regards commercial banks, they will also communicate clearly. Why we didn't or did something, so here, let me, of course, we can always elaborate, but it's ours, I won't say right, but also the obligation to look at broader aspects, so I didn't rule out those proposals or what Mrsic said as some kind of thesis from our further talks. I said that we have established certain criteria that are quite simple and quite passing, but I have not eliminated the possibility of these criteria being corrected, i.e. to be as such, possibly even sharpened, depending on what the first find will show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203805	Thank you. Now we've exhausted these first replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203806	Very specific, but here, I wanted to set it up now because I knew I'd discuss it after this replica. So, the key question in this rebalancing which is definitely barbaric at 15. 6, so this is the rebalancing first in a series that will happen this year and he de facto is now recording one situation where we are at the moment but is not giving answers to what will be behind 15. Six. Why are we talking about 15? Six? Because 15. 6. the key measure expires and de facto in the budget the most important and financially and in any other way and relates to the preservation of jobs. Therefore, a measure of 6.8 billion kuna, with the exemption from the payment of contributions to all those companies that had losses above 50% of their income. And we still don't have the answer, so that's my key question, which is going to be from those 500 jobs behind 15. Six? Where is the decision to extend the measure for the next 3 months, where is the money to be financed in this budget? It's not there, it's not in there. That's the key questions, people. So, I'd like these defensive forecasts of some analysts that there will be 400,000 unemployed at the end of the year, I think it's an exaggeration. But I also think that at this point, as much as 170,000 people without a job and that very easily of these 500 000, at least, those who are directly and indirectly connected to tourism, could really be out of a job. The estimates are in tourism that income will be somewhere at 25, up to 30% of what we achieved last year. We just said 11% in gross added value directly and at least another 10% is the indirect impact of tourism, so you count now. So you have to protect these people, so these people need to know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. And even if there's trouble, and if they really finish one piece, let's say a hundred thousand people, which is very likely of these 500, end up at the employment office, you there have to secure money, new money for unemployment benefits. And I didn't see that money either, so I rightly claim that this rebalancing is absolutely temporary, very improvised in all of its elements and that it covers only the state until the end of June of this year. So, it just goes into the electoral phase, in a way it wants to cover up the details and these important things, I would say which here I am trying to point out to the Croatian public today. There's one more thing I want to say. All the countries in our environment, apart from the measures for the economy, had measures for the citizens, the SDP in time identified it, put together a package, the package was weighing 2 billion kuna, you did not appreciate it, unfortunately, I will only tell you what the Slovenian neighbours did. They gave the pensioners between 130 and 300 euros depending on the amount of pension, giving self-employed a monthly income of 700 euros, 700 euros, for all those who lost their trade or interest due to the crisis. Are farmers and fishermen also treated by self-employed also the basic income of 700 euros? even gave students in Slovenia 150 euros per student. Why? Because only consumption and demand in the short term can retain such economic activity and prevent this fall from happening to us. Imagine, people have invested more and have a lower GDP drop, so they have a bigger deficit but they have a lower GDP decline and we have a smaller deficit and we have a bigger GDP decline. It's a fundamental economic logic in situations like this. Why is it that the Croatian government has been boasting all the time that it's taken care of finances, that it's a much better situation at the moment, that the prime minister is always talking about it, that it's a much better situation than it was 10 years ago or 12, 2008, and that it's all great, but we haven't taken advantage of our fiscal stimulant, or so on. The fiscal basis as they call it there at the IMF is 1.7%, unlike Slovenians whose fiscal stimulant, so I'm only talking about the budget, only what goes through the budget, not through HBOR, not through HAMAG, not through the banking system, not liquidity, only fiscal stimulant, 6.5% and about 3.5 billion euros, respectively, were poured through these support. You can laugh and I will bring you, here during the debate I will bring you a copy of the measures of the Slovenian government that speaks of the 6.5% support, our colleague, my colleague and your colleague and a friend might say, Velimir Shonje wrote about it, read a little of his contribution, I believe that you appreciate Shonja as well as I appreciate it, so from his article I pulled this data on a limited fiscal stimuli related directly to the budget. Croatia 1.7%, Slovenia 6.5%. And there's no dilemma at all, you can laugh now, it raises that question, but here, it's obviously the style of today's debate unlike any of us so far I'd say the debate in which you were much more confident, much more convincing, you didn't hide some important things and facts, and today the situation is clearly quite different when we have 25 billion registered deficits in this rebalancing and when we have very, very much more uncertainty and risks and hidden deficits. Now we're talking about local self-government, here's the mayor and the mayor, let them tell you what their budget deficit is going to be. The billion you've been counting on your projections is what you would say, a grain of salt, so that's nothing compared to what kind of deficit in local self-government is going to be. So a billion kunas and more than that will have only the city of Zagreb. Well, the other day, the mayor went out to a press conference with his whole world and said he was going to miss a billion kunas in the budget. And where are the other 555 units in the state? What are we people talking about? So I don't want to spread defetism here, but let's face it, this is a major crisis, a serious crisis, with a great uncertainty of what's going to happen in the coming weeks and months, and you have to be aware that the country is 4 months away, now that we're going into elections, 4 months. until the formation of a new government, you can't leave in a vacuum, you haven't brought in measures to protect jobs or extend it, you haven't solved a moratorium on loans legally to 12 months, people taking buses, charters, apartments that they built, apartments, etc., banks and Leasing societies because they have no other choice, no legal framework for extending moratorium deadlines, no liquidity loans, I'll give you an answer. Therefore, none of the credits of the commercial banks were granted either without guarantee or with the guarantee of the HBOR or of the State. That's the information, I have it and you obviously don't have it. So nothing's done, nothing's done that we can normally get into another part of this extremely crisisful and uncertain year. This isn't a criticism just for you, I'm the only grudge we have for you that I would say with fear, because it's closer to an election and it's hard to admit this situation that we are in right now, but people need to be told the truth and the truth is just like this. He threatens to quit, threaten to lose jobs especially in the tourist activity and the tourism sector and all related activities. Everyone else may be able to adapt somehow, but there will be the biggest problem, so people need to overcome this situation, they need to be introduced by 12 months moratories, they need to be given liquidity loans, they need to be able to survive this, and then somehow we're going to fight to get the GDP back and get the whole situation back into a more favourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, today's figures on the structure of the rebalancing actually show us the structure of the Croatian economy and what's actually the fact is that when the economy falls 9%, that the taxes that are, especially these consumption taxes that make us most of our budget are going down faster. So GDP falls at a rate of 22%, excise duties per rate of 16%, means indirect taxes, so we're talking about consumer taxes because that's just how our economy's structure is, we have a larger share of services, it shows us actually our balance of payments shows us that the larger service structure in 2020 than it was in 2008, so we're focused on renting, on services, on exporting services, and actually when this happens, one such locking of the economy, we see that I give tax revenues that are actually a degree of budget, fall under two digits, and that's what's actually a big warning. What is only positive between 2008 and 2020 is access to financial markets. I did say that one big bond of a billion and 250 million dollars is under in 2010 so that I don't say the severe torments were ever issued at all, by 6% interest, when, by me and that structure and deficit wasn't what we have today and we see that today the minister says that we can borrow 0.7% means 0.7% we can be in debt when we report a 25 billion deficit and actually when it was a structure, when it was a different structure, we couldn't take even interest of 6%. E means the structure of the financial market has changed completely, completely changed, and it is the only and only instrument of the government that can defend the crisis, and that makes the government the only instrument of borrowing either through pension funds or through banks or the CNB through the creation of offers because money is so cheap that it is at 0.5, 0.7% to 1%, and that is the last and only dam of the entire economic activity. Let's be honest and realistic, and this part of the money paid to the citizens, these 6 billion kunas exclusively comes in debt, the minister himself said that... The EU institutions are much more threefold in the approval of funds to Member States and in this context and exclusively both the last dams of both this budget and the rebalancing and the economy are borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was actually said here and that is unfortunately not the time, but certainly the state of the public business. The minister here talked about extra- budget users, 10 of them who went from 700 million plus to 2400 minus, meaning delta about 3 billion kuna, but the question is what else is the state of the wider part of the public business, and we know that especially from the transport sector, that they were in the minus when they were good times, when they were better times that they were in the minus, we know that the traffic is not, we know that the tourist will not be, the question is, what will happen to Croatia Airlines, what will happen to Jadrolinia, airports, the number of public enterprises that are not part of this budget but are in fact indirectly bound to the budget, so they are certainly directly bound by the locking and inability of citizens to travel, so it will surely come to the government in the future, or to the Ministry for some additional funds, which are certainly the risks of additional burden. What's most important here is to say that the economy is trust and that it's one consumer psychology. What has been announced, and measures themselves now see that many epidemiologists are announcing that there will be a continuation of the recession or crisis of the virus in the 9th month and that consumer psychology is very simple, delaying all possible purchases. We see that in the 4th month, only a thousand cars were purchased or registered in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that any major purchases other than bread, flour, oil, sugar, etc. Those needs mean people only buy it, they delay everything else. And that's the problem, that's the problem of whether it's going to be a 9% drop, 15 or 20. All investments, private investments, if citizens don't know, entrepreneurs don't know what locking will be, it's the biggest problem and budgets and rebalances and economies. Consumer psychology, not knowing what will happen in the 9th month, all have closed not only this part but there will be no private sector investment and there will be no spending, it is the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203808	Thank you. The next debate is Nikola Grumoja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203809	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's budget rebalancing shows the first signs of the seriousness of the economic crisis ahead of us, however, it is only a technical and temporary rebalancing that can hardly be based on some more serious assessments. Still, Croatia and the Croatian economy depend in many ways and are susceptible..., no one knows how the epidemiological situation will develop and not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world. As with other countries, we have only begun to give in to quarantine measures, and we will yet see the economic consequences of this whole story. What seems certain, however, is that the Croatian coronary economy will be more affected by the crisis than the EU average. The European Commission's first forecasts again put us at the very beginning of the nearly 10% GDP decline and we are again in a group of countries with Greece, Italy and Spain that will suffer the most. Clearly in the government, they will say that they are not responsible for the coronary virus nor for this crisis, and that this crisis has affected all EU countries without exception. However, when we look at forecasts for some other countries where GDP will fall to 4 or 5%, we can view these figures with a certain jealousy, knowing that their governments and their economic policies have been better and more successful than our government's policies and not a little more successful than twice as successful. Similarly, previous crises have taught us that our economic recovery lasts up to three times longer than the more successful and stable European economies. All indications are that we will look at the same scenario and now, we can all thank this government for failing to implement the necessary reforms in our mandate. As far as this rebalancing is concerned, I also said through the replica, and its indicators, it is clear that the elections at the door do not reduce budget spending by a single kuna. On the other hand, there is an enormous drop in budget revenues, about 23 billion kuna, and that is 16%, but these are just forecasts that are now more based on astrology than on reliable and final indicators, so we will learn the real truth and the state of things only after the election. What we are particularly concerned about is the decline of 500 million kuna in the EU aid item, this is particularly strange given all the information coming from the government that the EU will come up with programmes and allocate countries special means to combat the economic consequences of the crisis. The reduction in this revenue item also shows what and what extent investment funding is, in fact, an investment financed by EU funds, and we believe that such a conceptual approach in the fight against this economic crisis is wrong. In the European budget, Croatia has so far paid 21 billion kuna since we became a member, so far we have not been celebrated in withdrawing funds from the EU and stopping projects now that we are at the end of a multi-annual financial framework seems irrational. What is still worrying us about in the overall economic picture of Croatia is the expected decline in exports by 15%, while at the same time increasing imports of 12%, so our external trade balance that is not brighter and worsen anyway. Of course, with all these threats and galloping the rise of unemployment. The government forecasts are that this rate will rise from 6.6% to 9.5%, we in MOST personally think that the situation in reality will be worse, and since we started opening borders we can expect to return to Croatia a solid number of our people who have moved out of Croatia in recent years, and now they could be out of a job that they once went to. The measures to preserve jobs, so-called jobs, will also expire soon. And then we'll just start facing the right proportions of this crisis and the consequences for the citizens. So I asked Minister Maric in the replica not to tell me and assess how he is experiencing the atmosphere of citizens, whether they are positive or negative, I didn't think he was some kind of psychologist who should answer such questions. I asked him on concrete financial indicators if they are, and it will be much worse in the 9th and 10th months, it is clear that the mood of Croatian citizens and their existence will be threatened and it is clear why this government is pushing the elections now and why until yesterday, those in self-insulation were bioterrorists, and today they are those who are called to the polls, all they need is to put a mask on their faces. So, what does it matter here? MOST has all the time proposed concrete measures that applied to this period of quarantine and impasse in economic social life, but some of our measures are also measures for the day after we leave quarantine to make economic recovery and take off faster, more dynamic and powerful. Our measures follow a real change, a change of paradigm, a change in how the state applies to the economy and the private sector in the first place, treating it as a partner and a partner, not as a sheep for cutting and a rag for living. For now, the state has taken over the burden of crisis, the burden of liquidity and the burden of a good share of workers' wages. We will pay this burden through an increase in public debt, will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including those who will come to this world, children who are due today or tomorrow to be born, and we will pay for it for years after this pandemic of the Coronal Virus ends. We've been talking all this time about respected public sector savings ministers, especially at local and county level. The crisis has clearly shown that counties are no longer meaningful, no role, that they are only disturbing and slowing development and that they need to be abolished without mercy. So, the Republic of Croatia is a country, I remind you all here, of barely 4 million people and it's quite enough that it has two levels of government, central and local, and that both of them are effectively organised, that their powers are not overlapping and that they work for the benefit of citizens, not for the sake of petty private breakthroughs of local party boundaries. Our vision of the Republic of Croatia is clear. A vision of the Republic of Croatia with strong cities and municipalities and a strong central state. Those who propose regions, we all know that there will be nothing of it, never will Dubrovnik agree to be under Split, never will Zadar agree to be under Split, never will Sibenik agree under Zadar and never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka. So, from the region there's nothing, it's a missed concept. A much better concept is a strong central state, strong cities and municipalities without counties as some kind of, I would say, just a transfer of money, and in that transfer there is much, much loss. We see how, on incompetent actually mayors, on incompetent personnel like Mr. Sanader, Boban and others who have enabled this chaos that is happening now in Split and Split-Dalmatia County. We need an immediate removal of parafiscal duties, we suggested it here, the abolition, while at least this crisis, membership fees for HGK and HTZ, you refused. So at this point, we have 448 different parafiscal burdens that take the economy and citizens nearly 9 billion kunas. That money should be given to the citizens, that money should be given to the entrepreneurs. So, we only suggested that two parafiscal charges be abolished, and that would leave about 600 million kuna in the pockets of Croatian citizens. We are also disappointed by the fact that the government has rejected our proposal that entrepreneurs should only permanently pay VAT when they charge their invoices, not that such a rule applies in only 3 months. And what I have to say in the end, I wouldn't be too long. This government is constantly working in the interest of banks. Here at HS colleagues Bačić, a colleague of Grozdana Perić, defended banks, not Croatian citizens. They stopped here and stood up as bank lawyers. What we urgently need, which was done by Slovenia, by the moratorium on loans and interest. The first measure Slovenia adopted in March was a moratorium on loans and interest. What did this government do? We suggested this in February. This government has brought a moratorium to implementation in April of the month and only until the election. So, if you had brought it as Slovenians in March to the election when you planned it, that measure would have expired. This shows how much you care about Croatian citizens. The only thing you care about is your election result, and there's nothing we can do about it, and we won't get back together. Here in HS and in the public we will serve Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, we will account for it, and you will continue to serve banks, you will continue to watch some of your future arrangements, you will continue to watch some of your loans, and we will only take our bills to the dear God and the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203810	The next debate is on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished representatives Radin and Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. "Anus Horribilis" could be called, it could be called this year, a terrible year. The impact of the coronary pandemic on the health, social and economic system is extremely negative throughout the world, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, Zagreb and its surroundings hit the strongest earthquake in the past 140 years on 22 March 2020, causing major infrastructure damage and additional pressure on functioning public services, on the functioning of public services. Following this, of course, there was a huge decline in GDP, of 9.4%, with all components on the spending side of GDP except state spending to record a decline. If we look at the situation in the EU, we'll see that we didn't do well here, so 9.4%, and in the EU they were lighter and they wrote 9.1%, but also 9.1% puts us in 4th place from behind. Only Spain, Italy and Greece are behind us for GDP damage. The share of public debt in GDP in 2020 will grow by 13.5% compared to 2019, which will be 86% or 87% of GDP and the unemployment rate will be 3.3%. So like I said before, "annus horribilis". The lack of general budget will, of course, produce a pay drop, writes a moderate wage drop, but whether or not it will be moderate, we will see. The new plan in 2020 will also lack the general budget, which will amount to 8 GDP or 28.9 billion kuna according to the national methodology. The expenditure of the 2020 budget shall be kept at the same level as the total amount of 147.3 billion kuna. And now we're going to do what's interesting to us from the national minorities. The National Minorities Council, according to the new proposal for a state budget, will have reduced funds, but only 0.3%, and it will all refer to a reduction in the administration's item, not donations to national minority associations. On the other hand, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Funds for the office will decrease by 4.3%, but not for programmes for national minorities where funds are reduced by only 0.1%. So in other words, to say how I see this thing, there was a fact that almost four years of 3.5 years since the election, the operational plan for national minorities has actually been achieved to the extent that we consider insufficient and that now in the finals they have to be done and certain projects have to be completed. These projects concern what ensures the survival of the identity of national minorities or at least an attempt because we will never stop saying that those who believe that national minorities are given too much money to come to us and we will prove to them with a pen and paper that national minorities in order to really keep their identity and their cultural autonomy should have far more resources than they have now. But it's been that way for years, so we'll keep that in mind. There are some things in this budget that are obviously a mistake, e.g. One new item is actually an old item and it is the famous Italian school Leonardo da Vinci from Buje, reconstruction and addition of the school where it is written that an increase of 7 million 895 thousand kuna is planned. No increase is planned, in fact, what happened constantly in the operational plan for national minorities, we are being downloaded, so the item has been downloaded from this budget and reintroduced and reintroduced and it looks like it's one big increase in the budget on that item. I'd like to be such an increase, but not an increase is actually a zero. Also, of course in that horrible year we are in that horrible year, we are grateful that it has been retained, as we are grateful that it was held in the Ministry of Culture held funds for the publishing house “Edit” which is the only one, and only one minority has its daily presses that is the Italian minority, it is obvious evidence that the funds are actually in the extreme line insufficient, but we are grateful that in that year it is still... contained in... minorities and in the Ministry of Culture. You, Mr. Vice President, will now give your word to Mr. Bilek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203812	Dear Representative Bilek, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few months ago, we really talked in a completely different direction. When we were making this state budget, we predicted only growth of those 2.5%, we had good indications, we were doing some things proposals for new projects, cooperation programmes for the withdrawal of European funds, unfortunately here's what happened, something we couldn't expect. Now the projections are quite different, the projections have received one negative connotation, but when we compare everything and look at the situation with the health situation in the Republic of Croatia is much better than some other countries, so we can thank the rapid reactions of both government and headquarters, but above all, all of our citizens who have followed and all the services that have done this big part of the job. It worked immediately at the beginning with the first measures, second, third measures, etc., of course in the first hand, and HS granted approval to make redistributions in that case. The redistributions were correct, they went straight to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it had stopped then, if the state had closed down then, if she hadn't let the money go into circulation, what would have happened? Then what some here said would happen, then 500,000 unemployed would happen, then there would be a huge decline in GDP, an increase in debt, a borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, and a question at all if we got out of a crisis like this. We are now even in some better trends than some EU member states, not to say some countries in the neighbourhood, but that is because it has been invested. So the government didn't close the valve, so let's call it, the Ministry of Finance and all the rest of the state budget followed the needs of the market, the funds came to the expense of companies, trades, companies, OPGs, all those who could and requested government measures. This did not stop consumption given how much it could have been blocked entirely in the shuttle down we still had certain things, construction firms and some others that were doing their processes, but we did get to this. We have come to the fact that we have to change the items in the Croatian state budget so that we can continue such a trend that is not good, is not good for anyone in the world, unfortunately it is not good for us either, but in this situation it may be the best that it can be. Such a trend as the Government as well as our ministries, but also state-owned companies are still in the process of telling the investment cycle where our domestic companies are employed, where they are being built, where everything that can be done for people to earn their salaries, to make companies work. So are our counties, our cities in this part of here are secured 2 billion kunas of unscathed borrowing for local self-government units, more than 2 billion kunas, which will help breathe and continue all projects. Let us not forget that projects of local importance, regardless of whether to build homes, whether to edit roads, whether it is kindergarten or anything else where our domestic construction companies are also projects of sustainable development for all citizens in these areas, but also for the breathing of the economy. Without that, there are no salaries, no payments, no health care, no systems, but no spending means no business for trade, production and everything else. And that's exactly how the state invested in production, not only in the consumer part but in the production because the funds went directly to our citizens. As for achieving the rights of national minorities and as far as the state budget is concerned, aware that some items will suffer this situation, aware that there will be no power to implement certain programmes and projects that we have drawn up, but it has been monitored in the budget, we knew that some items will not be sustainable. But I'm glad that about creating assumptions and cultural autonomy as regards the Council for National Minorities that we have succeeded in the dialogue to prove that this is a fundamental matter for the functioning, not only of the associations and institutions of national minorities but of the cultural but also of the rest of the lives of our citizens in this area because there are also grounds for the lives of people, the existence of institutions, such as... The Daruvar, which is in any or "Edit" spoken of by his colleague, is in any earthquake in the financing of these funds. People get paid, people lose their jobs on that side, that's what's important. Also in my earlier question, the Minister of Finance in fulfilling the obligations under the signed contracts, I received the answer that these obligations will be respected, that this part of the reserve is being held, so it is in this budget rebalancing. On that side, I'm glad that we can safely go to further months that may not be as promising as we'd like to be because of course we don't know what's waiting for us in the 10th, 11th month, but we have some basic security measures to go. On the other hand, there are measures through three ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, which are used again in the areas of national minorities by all citizens regardless of what nationality they are. There are several gaps, so we talked about this part in private, I believe there have been some errors in the ministries, some of the ministries in coordination are about it if we need to invest some amendments, but I believe that we will communicate it on both sides and afterwards support the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203814	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203815	Thank you very much. As I mentioned to the minister, somehow there was an expectation that catching with a crisis means a lot more engagement, is one thing, we've learned already in the past, we can do denial all the time, I'm going to cut down some of my spending, I'm going to stop what I might have planned, I'm going to stay in some frames, but it's already proved as in any family budget, there's no progress, but there you are, you're just hanging in there, you're simply in that frame that you've given, and whatever needs you can't move forward, you're not moving. Now here, speaking of the state budget, we can also talk in a regular normal procedure when the economy is in its swing, when it has its accumulation, it is making investments, of course with the government's budget spending giving additional components of GDP, but this time that component is lagging out, our industrial production is falling, totaling GDP looking, meaning import-export elements, what we're talking about, and the commission has found that we are among the four countries that are going to have the biggest GDP decline of over 9%. So, we have Italy, Spain, and don't take me for the fourth word. So all of these other countries have a significantly smaller decline, the declines range between 5% and 9%. We're the ones who end up shaking the most... When we break and there is now where the budget rebalancing should be, will this be the one that I think is necessary in the sight of a desire ruling to dissipate the parliament or will be the next to come with a delay where we are wasting extra time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's necessary that when we touch that, when we hit the bottom, we can go up there, and that's what's important is how much we give. Who may have followed a little bit of Germany, the German Minister of Finance, what does he require? It also requires additional borrowing, means an increase in their borrowing in Germany so that they can inject their economy as strongly as possible to remove them as soon as possible. So we have two, two worlds. One is so developed, let's say a concept that has already shown its success and that is why we always take Germany for an example in which direction we should think, but on the other hand, so we always do the opposite, always looking at how we're going to make savings. Saved up somewhere, moved somewhere else. The maximum range of the budget is we're gone, we're here. So we have increased needs, and our budget is in the same frames. Now, are we gonna make a move with those funds? Hard, hard, even the way I think. But two components would stand out which, for which our citizens and entrepreneurs had the highest expectations, are the component of the Ministry of Agriculture and the component of the Ministry of Economy. Agriculture has been discussed a great deal, meaning that certain sectors of agriculture will have significant difficulties where support for small, especially smaller agricultural economies has been discussed, and there have been many during these two months of initiatives, attempts. In the end, this rebalance shows actually direction. The total budget for agriculture will increase by 0.6%. It was you that all this crisis was worth, right now it's 0.6% to the government. They believe it is necessary to add to the agriculture sector to resolve all this together. Impossible, simply impossible, no, we can't do that, especially that we live in areas that are extremely agricultural aware that any economic operator, say by 0.6% to give you cash, what now on account, what are we going to do, what would be the answer? Here, don't thank me. Don't do that, there's probably going to be a condition that's going to be even more burdensome to us, it's either simple or we've got a real shift or we're not moving. So these funds from the Ministry of Agriculture didn't go into the luft before, they were also contained in, in investments, in agricultural consumption, for agricultural progress, and now we should say by 0.6 let's change the current situation. Alid, I'm going to go local now, so look back at the area I come from as representative of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, minus 37% on funds. Puff! So, that policy goes, we help that area to advance it, to reach it, it's experienced with the first one, with the first disorder that happens tectonically. So, when the Republic of Croatia sneezes a little bit, and it's actually very coughing compared to other countries, then Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem get pneumonia. Here, this is about the message that is sent through this, and especially when we come through rural development measures where somehow the potential of retreating in these areas in a greater minus, 86 million kuna is predicted where the primary reduction of the component from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, somehow it seems to me that this rebalancing under the name of the crown will cover those gaps that as a state we had in withdrawing EU funds that would simply say, will now be asked for an excuse under the crown. But if we were to explain what the crown is, and what the funds are, then we would see, we weren't successful in withdrawing the funds so far, that the story that we've been told about success is actually experiencing the collapse now is impossible that we haven't withdrawn those funds in these two months, we haven't pulled them in the previous time, and now we're just going to clean them out of this budget. One entrepreneurial, like this, note, OKFŠ, common useful functions of the forest, not tax giving, popularly called parafiscal impose paid by entrepreneurs. Now there's been so much pressure, there's a desire to reduce something there, at that position there's an increase of 36 million kuna, so these funds are still significantly higher, and instead of showing up this intention we're going to do something about where they're pushing it, even if it's one symbolic reduction that doesn't break that balance between the foresters, but it comes out to the entrepreneurs. It's this item that shows direction that no one wants, and that's, let's go, there's an increase. No, it won't increase the fee, but it just shows that there are more funds than it is, so 30% is increasing. The economy, colleague Horvat, has lost 13%, 400th and a few million kunas. Ha, if we were to compare it to maybe some other countries somewhere, and he would say, "I'm leaving this government to be taken by someone and hit by 13%, I need to go around defending the government's economic policy." It's not just the Ministry of Finance to defend economic policy, it's also the minister of the economy that's expected as a member of the government that the one that promotes economic policy and he needs to say here, we're going to do our best, we're going to cut 13%, but that's people, all right, no problem, that's exactly what you're expecting, we're going to cut down, and you're going to cut something, we're all falling again. Investment support, total budget -30%, OPC, means from the EU but pairs what I was saying about agriculture, -320 million kuna, of which from regional development 319. 22% below the point of strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises -37%. Even the stock supplies we're on in those measures when we've adopted it, let's go buy products, fill in stock supplies to help out what, especially products that don't have a market... to keep it, so it's a pure offer and demand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reduce the position of the offer, demand, if there has been a reduction, demand for prices to remain balanced, withdraw from the market of certain goods, therefore stock supplies can serve, -59 million kuna. I don't know, whatever I touch here, it's actually controversial to adopt this kind of budget rebalance that doesn't really show that we're actually through the budget, so we say our pants off to help the economy, help all the components that exactly those components of GDP that make up, let the entrepreneurial part be emphasized. This way there won't be any more significant wage cuts, I see that's how it is at the level of a collective contract, so it goes to be kept back through the consumption of citizens by that component. A decline in industrial production, a failure to invest what we can expect, 9.4%, we might say, we'd be happy to keep it that way. When someone says next year it's going to be 6.1%, I'd just ask the question, is it from 31.12.2019 and is it 6.1% from that level, or are we going to fall to the bottom first and then we're going to fall 6.1% to the bottom. No, I know, it makes sense, but when you present it to people in one title, this year we fall 9.4%, we grow 6.1 per year, it's not the same base. It's not 100%, so let's go, now we're down 9.4 so we're going to grow to 106 commas something. It's not like that. We're going at 92.8, add 6. A little math now, but when the papers show it, it's like we're 3% different. It's not a 3% difference. Here's to the end, always the part that we look less at this particular part of the budget, but we also need to look at the other ones that are users of that state budget. And something I noticed in the Croatian highways, they explained that they gave up planned procurement for investment maintenance and construction because traffic load was reduced. So it turns out that our roads, since there was no traffic, I don't know, trucks or cars during these two months, are actually in great shape, that there's no need. Walk a little towards Slavonia, colleague Hajdukovic is driving there so he may not reach that part behind, but there he is, so the highway has failed, which should be invested intensively, means only investment-based, not one new building that needs to be maintained. I say we give up because there's no traffic, so it doesn't make sense, let's go now that it's less traffic, let's go rebuild it and be ready to increase that, but, look, that's something I've noticed like that. Croatian roads, expenditures of non-financial assets -17%, on fast roads, I will, again, say so little locally, from a srijem transversal much to be talked about, definitely nothing and will make one remark and exactly the Ministry of Finance about the clarification, when Croatian roads give their plan, which we have adopted, and indicate some of the infrastructure, key infrastructures they want to build, then also, when they are doing rebalancing and reducing, should specify which projects they give up. Because like this, we should now ask you, what projects they're giving up and you'll say, here, I don't know, what, ask Minister Butkovic, he should know or someone from the Croatian Roads. Then let's go out with it, that 110 million kuna of fast roads, where is it? What are those fast roads, what are the rest of them, that are left out? And I'm curious, and I'd like to know that information, too, here's the question, so I hope the Ministry's representative will communicate with it when he has his own insight that he can point out. This is how we should vote on something, I can't vote if it concerns something that might be of interest to an area, especially if I come from that area. And another ambitious plan, in the CERP, sales of shares in companies, is something that is constantly going on by each government, always opening certain names of certain companies because they are of particular importance, less special, there are discussions, and then predicting each year something goes on in so-called. privatisation and there is income from that position, for this year 25 million is planned. Now we have an increase of 55 million kuna. So, in terms of economic downturn, we're willing to sell state property and that significantly higher share than planned, then I'm just asking the question of whether the planned prices will be realized? If there is a crisis right now, I know that there is access to financial resources, but is there enough economic activity and economic operators who would be interested in entering such investments or certain funds that would want us to achieve such growth? It means that CERP should practically increase its engagement by 2/3 and make sales, and that's just to settle the budgeting. I'm just afraid that we're not going to be in the direction again to quickly collect some cash, so the less we have to be in debt, and later after a certain time we'll be discussing whether in a year or two we could achieve a significantly better price of the price being realized in 2019, when the pro-pulsively any situation in the economy was certainly a better basis for achieving a better price than now when we have such a significant degradation where caution suggests that the offered amount should not be too exposed to being realistically lower than those that would be in the run of the economy or on the rise. Here, these were some thoughts and in the name of our club, in fact that there are no of these choices then we would probably discuss it in more detail, and this is now going to be quick to survive election time, and then the real budget will be discussed by some, rebalance of some new calling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203816	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203817	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the amending budget for 2020. Of course the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Every time we discuss budgets or changes, we don't have a very big audience and we don't have that much interest, although it's a basic document of one country, from which everything is seen and from which everything can be read and trends and guidelines, and I think that all paragraphs are insufficient and spoken and insufficiently. This budget rebalance stemmed from everything that is happening in our environment in the world, and surely it would not have happened so early that the impact of this particular pandemic did not have such a negative effect on economic activity, and then also on the general situation. In this budget rebalancing, it is evident that the total expenditure has been kept at a level or slightly higher than, for 326 million kuna and they amount to, therefore, 141.5 billion kuna, while revenues are lower, as already said, by 23.2 billion kuna or 121.95 billion kuna. What the hell was that about? Well, everything that's been done and what we've done in 3.5 years, we've achieved precisely to bring the state of finance, state finances in line, to enable certain growth. You see, one small virus actually brought down everything that's 3.5 years old. It worked hard. The aim of surely the Ministry of Finance and the Government is not to provoke what some colleagues advocate some great consumption but to first redistribute to enable all of those projects, which is precisely this way when the cost of maintaining the economy and, and, and businesses, and then actually with debt, is to enable all those projects, which are ongoing not to stop but to move on. So that's when you rely primarily on your own forces, and then if that's not enough, then you can move on. We are witnessing that the government has gone to several stages, so the March measures, so the April measures and it is quite understandable and rational because in this way, all the possible difficulties that can happen during life or here in these two months were assessed and in this way, in cooperation with all ministries, with entrepreneurs, with citizens in the end line, were seen where it is necessary and how it works. And with what has been done so far, what has been done has proved to be absolutely correct, completely quality, timely, and in this way has just stopped those black scenarios as some and what some would have wished, so that we have many hundreds of thousands of unemployed and much more and social and other problems. What is seen from the budget itself is that it was in that part of any subsidy, whether it is given to households or entrepreneurs, it is seen that it has provided maximum funding, and as I said at the outset it was a redistribution of 2.1 billion kuna within the budget itself, so that here it would now be further secured up to 6.7 billion kuna, which is then forecasting a period and by finally 30th to June of this year. What's going on in this period? It is already mentioned normally that GDP will fall, it is something that is inevitable and happening, not only to us but to all countries in Europe and the world, but when you look at the components exactly what I've just said and the structure of GDP, then it is seen that this is exactly the state's consumption that is not falling even though all other parameters are particularly negative except for imports of goods and services. But when you look again at what it contains then in that import of services and goods, a significant component is just imports of energy. We have seen that there have been many proposals in which to improve the situation, they have competed with proposals as much as possible in one way or another, but these precisely these measures and the laws that we have adopted have shown that cold heads should have been pushed away very well and aimedly allowed to be given direct budgetary support, and also to enable both the economy and the public to reach their breath and ultimately to propose in all this. What I personally think is that we will get out of this crisis much sooner and faster than it was the financial crisis in 2008-2009 and when we speak here now and when we speak colleagues about what we are doing, so this is exactly what the conditions are changing at, and I think, although the scenario has been very conservative, but I believe that if we keep a certain level of discipline that can in this way be run now from June to June, then on, start and tourism, and certainly the economy. We need to be very careful here, what epidemiologists warn us about, so we need to stick to the rules of conduct and take good care of it in everyday life, as well as in business life. When we speak within the state budget itself, changes have also occurred in the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it is seen that the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money markets has changed from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion kuna. There has also been a change in art. 3.In current debt repayments, the total annual value of financial guarantees is also changed from 3800 to 4800 billion kuna, and the HBOR guarantee fund has also increased from 60 to 140 million kuna. It is important to say that special attention is also given to the law on enforcement. 6. where new employment is limited, i.e. it must be taken into account to limit only the necessary cases, and this is a time when both the Government and all ministries are taking great care of their capacity and capabilities. I would point out that it was precisely from this period when, in the short term, it was made possible and with the earthquake that it was, so we know that some ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, have no working conditions, how fast and quality the situation was adjusted, as in the shortest possible time, other services allowed and made a billion-and-a-half kuna aid paid to employees of the company over 84,000 companies. So I think that this speed has certainly shown that we are both capable and that we can make big steps whenever we want and when we need it. In particular, I would like to point out that the Commission for Fiscal Policy has reacted in accordance with its powers, and in its previous report or position, it has said precisely that it can deviate from fiscal rules, so in such cases as these were possible and it can be done to deviate from these numerical rules and to allow the state to be in charge above what was planned until then, according to the criteria of how the Fiscal Responsibility Act was determined. Thus, it has been shown that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have really responded correctly, that it has acted according to all the rules of the profession and that, in this way, when some criticise how much the EU has helped Croatia, and that there are still 18 billion kuna in those aids, it has been possible to re-apply these funds with existing means of planning to the very purposes that Croatia needs, and here there is the possibility that the European Social Fund could use the exact funds that were possible for some other projects, with no project going to stop or end. Therefore, this way in which it is managed rationally not only by its means but also by European means to prove that we are responsible and in this way as a country that has reacted to the first in this way, I think that this is evidence and we can serve as an example. And I must also say that it is also through the management of this crisis situation of the virus, or COVIDA-19, that it has been proven to take great care of the health of its citizens and that it has achieved its maximum since other countries have as many as they have died, hence this great pressure as we guard these or those activities, that any activity in Croatia is important both agriculture, tourism or financial services, any activity is important because it employs people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203818	Thank you. The next is the Živni zidom club and let's change Croatia's distinguished representatives Vucelic and Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203819	Dear citizens. The living wall has been warning for years that HDZ and SDP have no strategy for the country's future, except for the borrowing and sale strategy. In 2020, by rebalancing the budget that is under discussion today, this majority in the Assembly has been bought and charged with a new borrowing from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion. 35.7 billion more, 35.7 billion that we will never be able to repay. Our citizens are expected to pay their debts, debts to which high treason policy leads. If they don't pay, they're blocked, they're done, they're taken away from their property, and they're kicked out of their homes, and they're worth even a few thousand kunas. And how will the state pay its debts? The solution to HDZ and SDP is constantly new borrowings, borrowings that neither we nor our children can repay, and since this year the borrowing of our grandchildren begins. It's clear to everyone. It's clear to all of us that year after year, we'll be living more and more poorer. What's written as collateral? Mortgage, woods, water, islands. Instead of our business of entrepreneurs and citizens funding our CNB in our currency, we continue to listen to colonial borrowing policy in foreign currency at huge interest rates. Instead of having and broadcasting our own money and paying our CNB interest, we encourage our economy, we turn from hollow to empty, at the same time becoming more and more in debt and selling out our countries and its resources, our people. How much longer? This could be the moment when we will start our economy, deal with the intrinsics, earrings and artistic organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Tourist Board, of course, and the HRT, to deal with the banking and the upcoming parliamentary elections and the political mafia. But that's not gonna happen. The Law of the Living Wall on Electronic Voting will not even be found at the debate in this session of the Parliament because it is important for this government that 50% of the people do not go to the polls. The law of the Living Wall on the examination of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property is also pushed under the carpet. It's important to keep it as it is, and as it is, it will continue. A new wave of arrests awaits us, a country with a growing population has an ever-increasing public sector. The entanglements will continue. They enable and allow this rebalance of the budget. We are expected to have a new wave of criminals who need to settle down, and they will settle down, which also confirms the appointment of a new HDZ state attorney and its policy of protecting criminals. This week's debate includes the appointments of the same team that controls public procurement operations. The job's going as good as it used to be. We are expected by a new wave of refugees, Croatian refugees who are not fleeing the war, but by crime and devastation left behind by HDZ and SDP parties, as well as their criminals and their allies. The Corona has only accelerated the consequences of catastrophic high treason policy in about a year. The question I'm getting is, can our citizens hold you for another four years? And what will be left of our land? Are we going to be left with only party voters on the state chest and normal people driven off and scattered around the world? Today, young people, tomorrow's future pensioners are waiting for the fate of national pensions and survival with 800,00 kn per month and if they ever get pensions. When will it be enough? When we get on our feet and tell the bandits enough, this is our land? The living wall will not support you in further robbery, poverty and land borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203820	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, in fact I apologize, the division, excuse me, shared the discussion of colleagues Vucelic and colleagues Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203821	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the rebalancing of the state budget. The time is crisis, and in front of the Party we change Croatia or a team of experts who have worked on this I will present our proposals and observations on this rebalancing. First, let me repeat what's been said. The rebalancing forecasts the redistribution of 2 billion and 100 million kunas because about this strategy, if the revenues of the state budget fall, and the expenditures are kept by the same amount, then the only thing that can be done is to make redistributions on the side of the expenditure, so that something can be done. But, you see, the expenditures don't go down by $1.00, and they can be reduced, they can be reduced, and I'm sorry there isn't a minister here. As I came to this assembly here, for four years, four years ago, I was saying that I needed to refinance the overpriced state loans and bonds at the lowest interest rates now, this government started doing it seven or eight months ago, something was sewn up, but also too little and too late. My calculation shows that it's in this 4 g. It could have saved about 15 billion kuna, and it would have been extremely useful now during this crisis. I'm asking the question to this government, why didn't you do the re-financing? Why didn't you save 15 billion kunas that way? Dear citizens who are watching this, yesterday I was in a café, for the first time in two months, you know. I went to see him as a politician and an economist, and I expected there to be a lot of people. No, not a lot of people. We were only a few of us at the table for 20 minutes at a decent distance as prescribed. I'm asking the waiters what's going on? Is it because of fear or because of money? He says both. What happens when these measures stop, so this program helps after 15.6. If people are already getting help from the state, the Minimals, they hesitate, trying to spend? Of course it will be the same. Why? People are already afraid of that. Thus, it is a known situation that people’s behavior in the recession to increase savings or not to spend, spend on food, medicines, and what is necessary. So, we'll see, we'll face much bigger problems after 15.6. And that's why this government decided to call the election right early in the beginning of 7 months, while as long as it can, through its media, control its media, manage fear in people who are particularly threatened. You see, I didn't come here to convince the figures that it was about, I came on behalf of the Party to change Croatia in front of a team of experts because dear citizens, I'm sure while you're watching and monitoring the transfer of the assembly, you're looking and wondering, so who can solve this crisis, who can get us out of this economic fungi, you know? Well, I can't have people who aren't experts, you know, who have no experience, who don't understand what's coming. Where you could've saved up, listen up. You see, the concessionaires' fee for the Macelj-Zagreb highway is 188 million kuna. That's what we'll do. We pay Peter butter every year. Compensation for concessionaries for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway 67 million kuna. Who arranged it like that? Fuel fee for Croatian roads is a billion 960 million kuna. The proposal is to cut by about 100 million kunas. Fuel fee for HZ 474 million kuna, it's a bottomless bag. Fuel fee for Croatian highways, also 474 million kuna, a bottomless bag. What do we suggest, what can be done here? You see, in this sense we need to implement so-called. securitisation of the debts of Croatian highways and Croatian roads in a way, because this is an executive today, this time is an excellent opportunity, we are in a difficult situation, now big plans are made, big moves to make, means big solutions. How could the state get rid of this interest rate and capital sucking from the Croatian highways and Croatian roads? Past, the SDP government she meant to sell it, in a concession to give, etc. You don't have to. We need to securitize. They're constantly, look out, they're 15 years old. They pay off their debts, how much they owe almost nothing to the principal. Well, it's clear that these debts are thus irreparable. We propose that one billion foreign loans be paid off from foreign reserves, and the rest of it is about 3 billion to be securitised through government bonds and sold to investors by citizens' banks and all other investors. But dear citizens, they need to know how to do it, they don't know it, and they don't just know it, they don't want it. Why? Is it appropriate for some to pay so much interest to lenders and investors who bought government bonds, above all pension funds. So as you can see when I was here to solve the problem blocked within three months, the model is very simple, it's similar to this, and so is this. For these solutions, however, we must have much greater support for citizens because the profession is now called to speak. I see here come the election of dear citizens, most MPs shake. Why? So if they don't get a seat here next time in Parliament, they don't know how to do anything else, you understand, so they're shaking. Now it's time for people who are experts, determined, brave enough to mess up these nods, incompetent people and those who practically insinuate us, and I said just now that we've been paying 15 billion kuna over the past four years, we've paid no need to pay interest to banks, pension funds, domestic and foreign, etc. What else do we suggest? I won't talk about what's familiar anymore. What are our party proposals to change Croatia? So, spend your refinancing again, save 4 billion kuna a year. Furthermore, suspend payment in II. Retirement column from workers' salaries, suspend payment. I asked for it two months ago, you disobeyed. Every month, about 500 million kuna is paid into the II funds. to the pension column, stop, freeze and pay and finance the recovery of the economy. Fuel prices charges instead of HAC and Croatian highways I said should be securitised, issued to the government bond to take over, and that we all buy banks, funds, foreigners to buy and thus free Croatian roads and highways so that they can breathe and that they can pay off that debt one day. Otherwise, with a model like this, which I'm going to explain soon, I'm going to record one video, so this is how these two companies are never going to settle their debts. Furthermore, I again urge the government and the CNB to pay out helicopter money to all adult citizens of 10 billion kuna. This will not increase public debt if it is not a debt of the state but directly delivered by the central bank to each adult citizen. After that, citizens spend, thus reducing the fear of consumption, which is the most dangerous phenomenon in recession because when people don't want to spend recession, it deepens, production decreases, unemployment increases, and we sink. Our estimates are that the situation's description of how much GDP in Croatia will fall is that it is too optimistic, there will be a major decline. There are also optimistic figures on the drop in state budget revenue, especially from VAT, excise duties and other revenues. In that sense, there is no need to paint the situation better than it is. In that sense, I call you again and I warn you, don't put us abroad, for the third time I repeat here, I'm going to press charges against anyone in the government who owes us dearly, and it can be financed at 0% of the interest if it comes to kunas from the CNB and what we need foreign reserves. Foreign exchange reserves have Croatia one of the largest in the EU in terms of GDP, however, debt management policy, interest rates on its own citizens, the exhaustion of the economy, the collapse of competition on foreign markets, the unresolved judicial system, the corruption of capillaries that has developed in this society, dear citizens after all this I do not understand how the stone remains on the stone in this country. So I invite you to the elections, and I urge you to consider the future of your children and our children to whom you will give the voice to finally pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203822	Thank you. We're continuing to work on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The next one is in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's counterpart Zekanovic, who shares the debate with counterpart Glasovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203823	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I just asked the minister an extremely simple question, he avoided answering me, so I asked him another time, and now I see he's gone in the House. Now there's you, I don't expect you to answer me, but here's the question. I'll ask you a third time. Did we get any kuna from the EU in this crown crisis? Here, keep your mouth shut. I'll answer for you. So we didn't get a lipo of one of the EU, lipo, and we haven't even realised a single loan yet. And the proof of what I'm saying lies right here in the document that we're discussing here today, which is the budget rebalance for 2020, paragraph 623 of income, foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget, that's where it should be. There we had 18 billion 756 million, and now with this rebalancing we say that 502 million kunas 893 thousand kunas will be less, less. Not only has the EU not given us more money in this extremely difficult period, because we lack the rebalancing, how much, 20, 30 billion kuna, but it has also denied us money, it has reduced its donations to its member in this case Croatia. And this should be repeated and repeated. And you said you were responsible, responsible government, and you said the EU left us hanging. Don't take care of us, they don't care anymore, it doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist. Because when the European solidarity you swore 1,000 times disappeared, it disappeared into the EU. However, I will always point out that European solidarity was not there. That it was one big lie. And why you won't say this, the fact that I just said it is a simple reason. Everything you do, you do exclusively on the order of Brussels and for the purpose of Brussels, not for the purpose of the sovereign Croatian state. I will repeat that yours is a little clearer and that the viewers hear, everything you do, absolutely everything, every step, every move is directed solely by what Brussels wants, and those what the citizens of our country, Croats and Croats want. And the thing is very exact, 500 million kunas less, and we are a tourist country based almost exclusively on tourism. We are, in fact, the tourist region of Europe, and when we are out of tourism, we are gone, we will have the biggest economic downturn across the EU. That's it. We've already got it. And even though we sacrificed all production, in all others, all other activities for the EU, the EU will not help us. So what do we have from this EU? Except for the familiarity and friendship of Andrej Plenkovic. Here comes the minister, glad he's here, and I will repeat the question to the respected Minister Maric. Why haven't we got any lip from Europe so far and how do you explain these 500 million kunas less in the budget exactly in that item where it should have been? And yet to point out, there will be no countries in the EU, and perhaps in a world that will have an economic downturn greater than Croatia. He won't. It's not your fault, Minister Maric. It's not your fault, you've come into a situation that's been found, we've systematically destroyed it, or we haven't improved it in decades, you've been here for the last four years, and you're only partially responsible for taking over this sinking ship. But that is what citizens need to know, that Croatia is a country that has one strategic activity, which is tourism. And when there is no tourism, and that can happen at any time, at any time, there is neither Croatian economy nor projections are only 9% or 8%, as much as GDP is said. You know that unfortunately, it will be much, much, much larger. Much bigger. And what will happen to Croatia in a month or so, will be able to measure it in some economies after II. svt. The war. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. Andrej Plenkovic is not, nor are you Minister Maric, and who will suffer, of course. Croatian citizens, Croats and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203824	Please, one second. Time's stopped. The second part of the debate, colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203825	Dear colleagues, Mr. Maric. I, at one point, seem to have this assembly hall as a confessional, that people confess here, but you can't confess your sins, let's move on. It may be in the church, but these economic sins, mismanagement with the state, we haven't gotten rid of it. We inherited that, a dysfunctional state where every other word of corruption. Why so far have we not formed, like Romania,.../incomprehensible/... the closest to the world's issue and the question of human beings because in that country all personnel from the former state, after being... There they moved to another Romanian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have an anti-corruption directorate that works, people go to jail, but all governments. All governments have acted on a modern monetary policy to this day. Well, look, everything says they're not. That's what I'm going to mention 10 times again, what kind of master this government is, left, right wing of the party. The failed shipyards, 30 billion kuna, which each family with four members will cost the Croatian family 5,000 euros were taken from them when you put it on that tactical level. 100 billion kuna in agriculture. Where are these storage spaces,... etc., and we complain that the drought is coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to how much money we lost with these princes, Drpislavi, and there is no revision of those parts. No revisions. Read what others write about us, you have reports from other states. For example. Austria, which spoke earlier, a report 3 years ago, that the restructuring of the state, the massive public administration, failed and that corruption is still Achilles's fifth state. You've got some kind of here now, how this country, like this one, Restort coalition, I would call it the "pipl fat trast as" coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pipple fat trast as, because they have no idea and they have proven it because they're doing the same thing that does the right wing, totally dysfunctional state, to this day. Corruption is here... Mr. Lovrinović said that, and why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where Sorosha was peeled. The NGOs, the open society, they stole his money and there's just, I'd be the first, the first law there is creative accounting. So far, no major affair has been discovered and what now. The tobacco tax and alcohol will not save the Croatian state. Not on these drinks, this one, Coca-Cola, etc. What, we have an unsustainable public administration, we've been moaning for three decades. Unsustainable public administration, it's like her, a pot, put water, water leaks out with 100 holes. You have a debt of health care, I think, a debt of health is 8.5 billion kuna and is still growing. And you've all been friends and friends, you've been in power. And now the crown is coming, and now you're saving the country. Strange, strange, strange is this thinking. We're talking absolute fiscal discipline. So far, what's happened so far? Some have been acting on local self-government like drunken billionaires in Las Vegas in a casino, here. I mentioned last week, one on, one on, one on down spent down, a woman on, that's what I said, that's a good story, a woman accused him, one on there from May 1st, spent 450 kuna on the team. So who did he host, the Sheik of Dubai, whom, there, I don't know, Saudi Arabia? Nothing to anyone. There are no retroactive laws when it comes to conversion, privatisation, just smoke and smoke curtains, we haven't entered the root of corruption. How much, Mr. Maric, would you ask how grey is, what is the percentage of the grey economy in Croatia? ... is it double from the EU or how much, I don't know, but I have to, no, no, we don't need to, there's corruption in... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you also have a gray economy in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But America has 300 and a few million inhabitants plus, we have residents like the suburbs of Brooklyn. Not 300 and something million. Tourism, one-fifth, mentioned Mr. Zekanovic of our GDP, I think it depends more on tourism. What about those people who rent apartments down there and down houses that have invested heavy money, raised loans, and no income. What happens to them and what happens to that fifth of GDP? Actually, I'd say, we know what's going to be in this, uh, near future, it's until '21. Mr. and what do we know about the coronary virus? We don't really know anything. We don't know how much this debt will be, what GDP will be nominal, real GDP, how much we will be in debt, will be, will not be saved by the European Central Bank, the AMF, etc., but we ourselves and we must soon start with... the whole state system, not the taps in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said that before that this budget is like a hollow hole, water leaks, doesn't exactly hold arguments because we're going to be in charge again. What's going to be the percentage of the debt we don't know, we can only guess, but we're still in charge. Here, there's no long-term strategy, I'd say, I'd compare the budget as long-term, all short-term. When you see in Croatia, a family house, a family house, upstairs live for 3 generations, and under the house put a small store that sells everything, from hemorrhoid cream to auto parts, would immediately earn money. No, that's not how it works. Well, we don't even have a medium-term strategy for economic development. So, who will come to invest here, give me two examples of Greenfield investments in Croatia. They took over the Czech auto-industry, the Slovaks, they were supposed to be in Lica. So who will come to a country where at every level you have bureaucracy as in ancient China and every, every, this branch of that tree, the rotten one is wanted bribe, bribe and hunt, and now look who will come when, if the average investment cycle is 5, 10 years, and you change the laws, you change every year. You, left, right wing of the party. Who will come to you here? No one's coming. That is, just, this, I don't want this to be a nagging, but we need to move things quickly. Specific things either, or we're waiting for the same thing that happened to that failed experiment, that union of Southern Slavs where it was, inflation was me thinking bigger than almost Venezuela. Only two countries had more inflation, it's Zimbabwe and Brazil, it's in the '90s, I don't know how much longer the former "South" we're paying, it's about $9 billion, it's not said. What do you say? But I would just mention, Mr Bernardić when he mentioned, uh, recently one terminology, it called it when some real termology that was abused by Mr Bernardic was not, not this rectal these climbers but rectal climbers were old characters who had already entered deep into the state system from the old country, former members of the party, these are, rectal climbers, but those who are now coming, younger frames that are licking into the left, right-wing wrong parties, they are anal alpinists who are entering that hatch now and they want to be profiled through these two parties, left, right-wing party, these are anal alpinists, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203826	Okay. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. I'll remind you that the debates on behalf of the clubs take 15 minutes, individual debates take five minutes. Next is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please welcome colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is a budget rebalancing which none of us wanted and would all be happy, of course, if we didn't have to do it because it was caused by a crisis that affected the whole world and against which the Croatian Government is fighting in all indicators, quite successfully, which I want it to continue to be even more successful in order to protect people's health first, and secondly, what has been said since the beginning, jobs and economic activity. And for these very reasons, as it has been said, it is working out, out of increased isolation for the protection of human health, to help the economy or employees in order to preserve jobs, for the sake of falling of course and economic activity, we are forced, as the minister himself said in his opening statement, in the first half of the year, in principle to do budget rebalancing. What marked this entire mandate of the government in all the discussions so far on budgets and rebalancing was tax discharge, both citizens and economies. Today we have a situation that for the first time in the state budget, we have returned money to those who paid it into the state budget and who paid it. About 7 billion kunas are said here to be that amount. There's no such thing as great wisdom. The crisis is here, it had to intervene, the budget has to be rebalanced, we need to adapt to the situation in which the state found itself. Of course, for these reasons, I would like to say firstly that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB will support budget rebalances. The minister says the unemployment rate is projected to rise to around 9.5%. I will remind, not so long ago, of a different crisis, much smaller than the current crisis, because this one, this one, is about the health and life of citizens, that is, in the term of the previous government, or the previous one, I am not talking about the one between the government for a few months, when it was 2011. The unemployment rate was 13.7% to 16.3% in 2015. So, these are some indicators that are on the table and we have to compare, especially those that criticise the government's work of course, we have to compare those times, we have to compare the success of the then Government in a crisis situation, I say to a different crisis situation with the adoption of the current government in this current crisis situation. It is obvious that this government has done so much better and more effectively. The expenditure savings are, of course, there, and I am pleased to see that, however, I was concerned about not making too much savings at the expense of investments, that projects such as the 2012 case should not be stopped. when some projects were announced to be stopped, when certain decisions had already been made, when the chariots of various letters had been made that the construction of a fast road from Cugovec to Križevci would be stopped and that the existing what was built would be preserved. I am pleased here today that the Government has the courage to continue with projects, with such projects, among which there are so many here in the Croatian Assembly, but also in the premises of Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovar-Bilogor County mentioned "Podravski Ipslon" and the continuation of its construction. And because of the citizens in the area and because of the economy in the area of which this continuation is of vital importance, it is worth saying here that I am glad, and in some answers today, the minister has indicated this, that this project will continue and continue. I've given myself a little effort, so I've been collecting some data on the use of European water supply and disposal funds. According to the data I received, the period from 2017 to the end of 2019 is 4 times higher than the year 2009. by the end of 2016 When I talk four times bigger then I'm talking about 3.5 billion and I'm talking about 14 and some billion kuna, and that's what I'm happy about in this part of it because I think that without continuing investment, without using European money to hire the Croatian economy, we can hardly hope for a break-out, faster extraction from that part of the crisis that comes after we believe and hope to stop the spread of the coronary virus. I am also pleased that this budget rebalance is not abolished either, that the activities and constructions and the Belarusian agglomerations and the dwarves and the koprivnica and the crusades continue. A billion and 200 million kunas are the only 4 agglomerations of investment and investment in the areas I'm talking about. For all the reasons that I have stated, I have only cited a few of them, I repeat, our club will support this budget rebalance, congratulate the government on the successful fight with this crisis and wish that we will get out of it as soon as possible and start restoring the economy and hope to awaken the optimism of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203828	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is counterpart Emil Daus outside the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go, colleague Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203829	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of HS, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are aware that it is not easy to rebalance the state budget in a situation as it is today with many unknowns and uncertainty. And we will try as always to be above the daily political turmoil and pre-election campaign that has already begun and try to focus on the subject of the budget, but also on everything that is attached to it. I must admit that I personally thought that this corona crisis would wake us all up a little bit more together, that we would realize that it was very little to change everything and that we would finally get priorities, both economically and socially. That after the virus and the earthquake, we realize how small and how few we are and how together we can do something good for this country. But no, some just waited for the situation to calm down a little so they could go back to their already haunted phrases, procedures, no matter how much they hurt society, because it's easier to share people than to create a community. But when we talk about the budget and the management of public money, which is the subject of this point, it's kind of an impression, and not just now, but for decades, that it's always going the easy way because it's easier to sail down the wind. But they don't always blow the wind in the desired right direction, sometimes they have to turn back on it, board the opposite. And that's what's actually been missing for many years, making tough decisions that lead in the right direction. The so-called reforms that are being talked about, but the real ones, the real ones are actually lagging behind. There is no reform of the public administration, the reduction of the costs of the administration itself and its ineffectiveness, which generates a new additional cost, we are far from it. There is no reform of the industry by the outdated or those failed in the modern world industry. We still do not have an environment that will attract sustainable development-based investments, green energy and no agricultural reform. It would only be enough for the last 30 years to be abandoned and healed agricultural land to feed the whole country, and Croatia is importing food. I understand when it comes to tropical fruit, but potatoes, onions, salad, apples, peaches, that's a shame. And if we do not reduce and eliminate unnecessary expenditures in the public sector, nor do we invest a systematic tool in what will energize us and return multiple funds, which will create added value in our society then no rebalancing makes much sense, then they become just form, not content. Because it turns out that whenever something goes bad, the only answer for most Croatian governments is to cover the lack of income by additional borrowing. This is a pattern from the 1990s and does not stop, although occasionally a temporary flash occurs where, on the one hand, it is fairly responsible for managing public finances and should be honest and there should be commendation for the work of the current ministry headed by Minister Maric, but it should also be told the truth, which is that on the other hand, and enough happiness has been what took several years in the wider environment a good economic situation which was not the result of the systemic approach itself, at least not in the most part. But happiness has its own deadline, and as soon as it's scratched again, we're in charge again. And we wouldn't have to if we were to create values in our own backyard, but someone's importing and trading is more important than exports and production. And the more it is said to love Croatia, the less Croatian it is itself. It's actually the greatest defeat of our society. And it's not a subject or not at least the Ministry of Finance itself, but a much wider economy and agriculture and administration and the whole society as a whole. We do not want to be hypocrites, besides the IDS supported measures to help the economy realize that it requires a large amount of funds that are difficult to compensate for new revenues and it is right that Croatia has decided that health and human lives are ahead of profits, but on the other hand we do not play generals after the battle because we have been repeating the same thing for years. Domestic production, especially the agricultural foundation is Croatia's development with a special emphasis on product quality, tourism has too much of a share in GDP, it is not good, it needs to share the risk on several major industries. Let's finally turn to new technologies, when the situation has forced us in a month, it's been done in the digitization of society more than in 10 years, so it can be done. The development is based on sustainability not on extra profits of individuals, and nature is increasingly sending warnings to us, so let's finally listen to it. It is clear that there are not many of us, that we are not large and Croatia cannot compete with quantities, but it can certainly do with quality. It has great natural and human resources for it, and it can be done, not overnight, but it can be done. My colleagues and colleagues, along with all the troubles and challenges, this unfortunate pandemic is a kind of opportunity, an opportunity we talked about several times in front of the IDS club, and we thought it would be recognized and exploited. And it was an ideal time to start implementing real real reforms. And it may sound a little naive, but I'm convinced deep down that they would get even a lot of support from a large number of citizens if they know which direction and which way to go. But according to the good old one, when the elections are not too slow then the expenditure remains at least until the next rebalance, incomes are compensated by additional borrowing, only what is the problem with us in Croatia every so many elections, and borrowings will unfortunately become more expensive on the financial market. And that's the problem with most Croatian budgets, we're afraid that's going to be the same with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203830	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The following registered counterpart Boris Milosevic is in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, please welcome counterpart Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203831	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The rebalancing is coming to us much earlier this year than we used to in our earlier years. Normally and initially said in these discussions that the SDSS Club can assess positive overall fiscal policy results for the year in which we are discussing rebalancing, at least as far as the mandate of this government is concerned, no one can deny that we were doing well. And last year in the debate, on last year's rebalancing, I commented that with rebalancing compared to the original budget for 2019. We foresee an increase in tax revenues due to favourable economic developments. But that was, so just a few months ago, now a few months later we're talking about completely different circumstances, completely different conditions. After the 20th quarter growth we have a situation instead of continuing this trend, instead of growing about 3% as predicted in the 12 months of last year, we will at best have a decline that is foreseen by this rebalancing of 9.4%, but the big question is whether or not it will be. It's not about the intention of this rebalancing, it's not about the ability of this government, we simply can't know with certainty what they're carrying next months, is there going to be a new wave of epidemics, are we going to have to reintroduce the longdown, what the situation in the world will be, will we be able to travel and cross the borders, will there be air transports, what countries will be open that won't, where there will be an epidemic, how many countries that are important to us partners that our economy depends on, and in the end what season will be? There's a lot of questions, and no one has an answer. When we look at it, we are changing the State Budget Act for this year to help JLS, to help HZMO, to help HZZO, to cover income tax, to cover taxes, to cover taxes, to contribute where the taxpayer is free of payment, or payment has been delayed or payment specified in meals. We are changing the law to give the Minister of Finance authority to, with the government's consent, be more than what was found to be the level of borrowing, and all with a view to actually avoiding the occurrence of adverse consequences for the normal functioning of the state in 2020. We also amend the Accounting Act to extend the deadlines for the submission of financial reports and the boss of accompanying financial documents that entrepreneurs must file, submit. So, the whole, but the whole system that we've had for years is now no longer valid under these conditions. Nobody slows it down. We, too, have debated in HS over the past two months according to the Bureau's agreement, not according to the current Rules of Procedure. This rebalancing is real today at this point, perhaps even for this month, but the question is whether it will hold water for two months? If we could do best, we'd only have a financial plan for the next month and so on from month to month. What brings us rebalancing is a reduction in the revenues of the state budget in 2020. which are planned at the level of 122 billion kuna. On the other hand, expenditure remains the same. The change in expenditure is only in their purpose or location, everything is now given in the fight against the crown and the consequences of the epidemic, in the fight to preserve jobs. I think what's planned on the spending side is still too rational because we don't need saving right now, the expenditure should be increased, even at the cost of more debt because we have a lot to finance. Let us not just forget the earthquake in Zagreb where the damage has yet to be estimated. The funds provided for by the rebalance for some 100 million kuna for the emergency implementation of the first phase are certainly not enough. She may be able to pass as an initial asset and it would be great if they were actually spent this year, but it certainly isn't enough. For the past two months and last month, this tall home has voted the most in favour of a whole set of laws that have fiscal effects in the direction of easing the epidemic and its consequences. And it's now embedded in this rebalancing. All these laws have been voted unanimously so I don't think there's any obstacle to this rebalancing going in that direction to be supported in this way. In the debate, I'd like to highlight a few things. The government has come up with lightning and implemented funds to preserve jobs of nearly 7 billion kuna, and this has resulted in more representatives in their debate today. I think it was meant to go quickly, broadly, with liberal criteria. The majority of EU countries went after the subsidisation of workers' salaries at a certain percentage, but the support was exclusively designed to support employers, not as support for job conservation. And here I may see a slip, one mistake that took place at speed, because then it wouldn't have happened if the workers didn't know that their employer had received that support. Then it wouldn't happen if an employer who could pay the difference between the paid support and the contracted salary didn't do it. What are we going to do with that kind of treatment? What about abuses of paid support? This may not be a question for the finance minister at the moment, but it certainly is a matter for the government because the government must find a solution to the problem. Because these measures went to the public and to the Croatian Parliament and were accepted as such to save jobs, but if the worker in certain cases did not get any of it, if he didn't even know about it, then the intention of the Government was, then the Parliament's intention to support it was played out. And that should be determined. At the end of the debate, I would like to point out that a public call is being issued these days for municipal and social infrastructure and for agriculture and for small OPGs, for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in areas which are underdeveloped and which are historically inhabited by members of national minorities. The government's respected programme, met and respected operational programmes for national minorities, also adopted by the government. And so it's supported by this rebalance, the funds in the rebalance are secured, though, slightly less than last year, but insignificantly and minimally, and the calls are gone. The measure is good, affected, accepted, recognised by the users and we expect this year when calls, when the deadlines for application expire, that there will be a lot of applications, a lot of stakeholders, and that these measures will help those who are users of these support, and we can absolutely believe that they are going to counter the consequences of the coronary pandemic. Here, so much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203832	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, a club representing GLAS. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203833	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues Bačić, therefore, we have this exceptional situation that we have colleagues and that Bacic is our only colleague with the vice president. And on your way out. But let's go back to the topic of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the rebalancing of our budget, and maybe this is the opportunity to call some things and the real name, so we have choices around the corner. In the context of these elections, Minister Maric has certainly hurried with this budget rebalance. The budget rebalancing caused something that none of us had in mind at the beginning of the year, and even less when we discussed the budget for this year. Corona, when we discussed the budget for this year, so it's just somewhere, I think on December 12th of last year, the Coronavirus and Wuhan mentioned, that something that was very far away in Europe and something that was in Europe came very quickly to Croatia. And by calling things the right name, Croatia has decided to protect people's health first and foremost. We had one of the strictest measures, and we had a Staff that we trusted and respected all those measures about and distance and everything that was determined. Behind that is said, let's keep our jobs. When it comes to keeping jobs, I could agree with my predecessors, that it was the help of employers, and about keeping jobs we'll see what happens. So what the government and the ruling party have decided, has decided that this summer we will have elections and we have no dilemmas, we have to go into budget rebalancing because we know that about 4 months is of one technical government, 2 months when the Parliament will not work until the elections and then 2 months until everything that needs to be established is established. What we really need to say, the coronaryvirus is something unexpected, for it could not be prepared, we could not prepare ourselves, what time will go on, it will open up the following problems that everyone who is dealing with this at both Europe and the world level, and say in the context of Croatia that it is really and certain shutting down certain jobs, to expect, is also another wave, I have now read somewhere that about the largest wave will be in January 2021. But it's fear, it's fear of the unknown. We're fighting the coronary virus like we're in the 19th century, so without, to reduce our contacts to the least possible measure. What, when it comes to this rebalancing, which is to say, is that in the fall in some new composition of this Parliament and in some new story, we will be welcomed by real rebalancing with real numbers and with real condition and with all the consequences this coronary virus will cause, but as the earthquake in Zagreb has shown the extent of the damage that Mr. Mayor has done to the city of Zagreb for many years, so this coronaryvirus also points to some other things that we have to take care of. So we have to take care of some of the things we've been fooling ourselves about so far. Unemployment has been reduced by people going to emigration, our budget gaps have actually filled our country's apartmentisation and tourism beyond every reasonable measure. Slowly but surely we've turned into a land of cafes and apartments for rent. I don't mind all of it together, but these are not activities that can be the basis of a healthy developed economy. The decline in industrial production... months before the crown, importing food, we have raw agricultural land, we have a shortage of any advanced industry that brings good jobs for high added value, we're a country for educated and there's no place of business, no need. These are the real causes of our problems. This coronary virus has actually shown the real causes of our problems and therefore it is no wonder that when everyone talks about Croatia they say that economic development will be more difficult than in some other countries, it will last longer than in many other countries. We should think about that day later. We should try to think about what kind of country we are and what kind of Croatia we want to be in 2030 or 2050, which is the economy that we are going to develop. We can all agree here whether we sit on the left, right or middle with two things, that we should try to develop agriculture to be as self-sufficient as possible. Self-sufficient in terms of food, we will never be fully, it must be clear to us, but to be as clear as possible and to try as possible to rely on tourism as possible because when the first year does not occur when there is no tourism, all the problems we can open up. So the things we can all agree on are the things we should agree on. So let's remember how quickly we agreed on some things that were connected to the crown laws, we went to make a quick deal because we were afraid because we had pictures of Italy where people in black bags put in trucks, these are pictures that were in front of us in that fear we said okay, let's go with some measures. As good or as bad as they are, we'll see. We're pointing and we're going to point at two things. The first thing we pointed out, which is support was basic to those who, because of the state's decision, couldn't work. That support has turned into someone else's. Don't let it happen to us that the people who took the support for the jobs will pay off the profits, only then will everyone laugh directly at us. The second thing we pointed to, and I'm using this opportunity once again, when it was a start for credits then those who took it should have had the opportunity, that when they started paying off the loan to start where they left off. I've had a chance to hear one of the people in the banking sector who said, well, no, we don't charge people interest, we're going to charge at the moment when they're going to start realising their loan again, I mean what we're talking about. So we didn't do anything. And then we have a situation which is a special situation in the City of Zagreb. At the most severe moment when the crown was the City of Zagreb was struck by an earthquake. The earthquake was 5.5 times the same thing when you take the same 1880 earthquake was 6.5. Within three days of that earthquake in 1880, the headship of the City of Zagreb met, decisions were made, the City of Zagreb was such a small town on the edge of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the result of the earthquake was a strong economic activity that was launched by the City of Zagreb, which the City of Zagreb quickly produced a respectable work of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. The best builders were building the city as we know it today, I must remind you that, let's say August Sheno at that time was a city senator and he got pneumonia helping and injured in the earthquake, but also activating himself in terms of the economy and as a consequence of pneumonia and embolism August Shenoa died as a result of his earthquake-related activity. Since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb 22nd so in 10 days it will be two months, today it is about 50 days since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and now when we compare this budget rebalance in the budget rebalancing we have an item of 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and we have an item of 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency Fund. That's 141 million kuna at a government meeting last week, said it was meant for exactly what. It's designed for recovery, it's designed for dental walls that have collapsed both for condensation water heaters and chimney recovery. All of a sudden, the theme of the earthquake in Zagreb was the need to obtain condensation boilers and resuscitation of chimneys. All this stuff that you're coming to this Parliament so you can't come or all of this you see in the City of Zagreb and all of these activities that are and that you go down one street so you can't go through, the citizens are doing it on their own. Citizens do not have the right information about what the state will do together with the City of Zagreb. Rehabilitation or new reconstruction of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake simply must be a state project. The resolution minister came out to the public about two, three weeks ago and said that the recovery would take years, as he will, said the estimated value is about 42 to 43 billion kuna, and we in this budget have 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, which speaks of the intention of accessing the problem. If the problem was to be treated, the governing body could already be determined at the state level, the law could have been held in public debate, he, I went to check before I dropped here that perhaps there was no public debate in the meantime, so there is no law in the public debate. It's as if Zagreb is forgotten by all. It was as if Zagreb had deliberately forgotten from everyone. Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the sin of inaction is a serious sin. It's a sin that's been going on for 50 days now. So what you're seeing is that the citizens are on their own. But that madness won't end there. This madness will end, the question is how, but at this point we know that there was one Commission of Stats who was reviewing the facilities, so another commission will be set up that will once again in front of the city to check what the facilities look like, what happened here, and the law on reconstruction and the third commission is foreseen. So 3 different commissions will review the damage that was done on the facilities. In doing so, I think first and foremost of the buildings they use, therefore, whether they are family houses or multi-state houses used by our citizens. I assume the state of its building has been examined. I guess, for example, the Ministry of Finance has been reviewed and it's been established around what's the damage, which is the deadlines of the recovery, how to go into rehab, both from the aspect and the statics, from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage, which is some kind of a small cost, which means financially, I guess it's been examined. I think even in that rebalancing process that's gonna happen in the fall, we're gonna have to take this seriously. Indeed, the fact that the city of Zagreb and we who live here and who we are, and we live in those parts of the city where, or in buildings where it felt stronger, it's that now that someone is a little louder or a little stronger, you're shaking because you think it's an earthquake, it's one thing. But this is one of the opportunities to be taken. I asked the minister in the replica about the Green Plan because I am absolutely, and we in GLAS are sure that the Green Plan is one of the future, so Croatia has its Green Plan, that it is one of the ways in the future of Croatia. I know that decisions, especially when 27 countries are making themselves difficult, but we should take this earthquake trouble as our chance. Construction as a branch feels the first recession, but the first feels the exit from recession. We had problems, that we didn't have enough labour, that our labour force had to be activated and in construction was somewhere else. All this Coronavirus talk and all this story about the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, we are absolutely sure that all these disasters that have happened to us, we need to turn it into a new value and turn it into something that we can really use and start with a serious construction swing in the city of Zagreb. So we really see this rebalancing as a pre-election document that is needed to hold elections, and the real rebalancing will come in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203834	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203835	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Excuse me. We can call this budget a short breath budget and a short-sighted budget. Why is that? The budget is short of breath because the ruling parties have repeatedly declared that electoral legitimacy is needed to make key and serious decisions. In other words, this rebalance only maintains public finances for a few months. That fact was acknowledged by the minister himself in the opening speech when he claimed that the main objective of the adoption of this rebalancing was to maintain expenditure on the originally planned amount. It will be provided in less part through redistribution within the ministries, but in order to settle the 27 billion kuna deficit, it is clear that it will need to be in debt and increase the total public debt. We can say that this rebalancing marks a financial message that we can interpret for pre-election purposes because it does not answer key questions concerning the existence of many Croatian citizens, and most of all the poorest. It is not at all comforting when the minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia declares that the payment of pensions will not come into question. It's clear in itself because if that happens, then it's quite certain that the whole economy is at stake, the only thing we could expect is bankruptcy. Especially since pension funds will also help state finances with 16.5 billion kuna. There is also an announced EU aid of 9 billion kuna. By adding these two amounts, we can argue that we are halfway through solving our problems. Looking at things this way, it's all expensive and it doesn't look tragic, but there's always some kind of but, and here's exactly that "but" key. As I have pointed out, this rebalancing is also shortsighted. He doesn't have a serious view of the future. He didn't define the direction we wanted to go. To us, the condition of the old normal, to use the words of the ruling, is to be seen as something that we have to pursue again, and that's just to be fatal. Not only are we shortsighted, but our glasses have slipped deep into our noses. The Croatian economy has deep and structural problems. That's what the minister said. When exports grow, industrial production grows significantly both imports and vice versa. It is therefore important to highlight 3 things that are important to take into account structural problems and start implementing the necessary reforms. First, it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship in a way that stimulates all who have good ideas and development plans, while at the same time controlling incentives. Public procurement as a symbol of corruption should be extremely controlled. That support control is important we see on the last payments of support for the preservation of jobs. According to field information, the controls are missing. The money was paid, and the contracts weren't signed. Support was also used by businesses above the fourth-instance ownership of the Republic of Croatia, although these rules are not allowed. We have destroyed many strategic branches and businesses that employ a large number of workers and create an export product. Secondly, entrepreneurs are exposed to a high tax burden and a large number of parafiscal charges, while on the other hand, public administration reform and local self-government are delayed or not implemented. Public administration must be cheap, efficient and fast, and service to citizens and entrepreneurs. This crisis has shown that system information can only be accelerated if there is a will. Furthermore, instead of building a functional JLS system with clearly defined tasks and responsibilities for municipalities and cities in accordance with their fiscal capacities, the status quo is offered because this corresponds to the currently partial party interests and does not want to move from a dead end. Let's just look at our inefficientness in withdrawing funds from EU funds. We have 428 municipalities and 127 towns + 20 counties + City of Zagreb. We just have two options. Either apply all of them to joint work towards the development of the Republic of Croatia or move towards a serious reconstruction. Third, health, education, pension and other large systems require serious interventions to become functional. Infunctionality causes inefficiencies and preconditions for pointless spending of public money and even suffering in individual's own pockets. At the time of this crisis, the health system has stopped in a large part of the diagnostics, a review of primary health care and a series of non-emergency operating procedures. The rebalancing said that the costs of the health system have increased and that health care workers are not adequately paid. Apparently, the cost went up due to the supply of masks. That's weird. Personally, I think the masks will fall and soon after the election, when HDZ leaves power. Our education system in these difficult times thanks to valuable teachers and teachers, well that I don't end up shutting down, and I'm going to mention the ministry's efforts, has managed to maintain such a distance teaching. And what does the government do? Now he takes away what they were promised after the exhausting strike. Although teachers and students want to return to school, they are prevented by inaccuracies and inexhaustible instructions. So, for example. The instructions specify classrooms with terraces and separate toilets, and this could be written by someone who has never been to Croatian schools. So what happens now? Like in the wild west. The kids are taking over part by piece of the school's territory. It's not a system, it's a verse. And finally mention the pension system. It should be noted that the ruling rejected a reasonable increase in the price for supplementary health insurance and do not want to discuss resolving the issue of family pensions. We'll deal with it right after the election. To conclude, the rulings only have in mind the choices they want to hold as soon as possible on the wave of success of the national headquarters in suppressing the epidemic. As a result, the headquarters lost significantly on its expertise and got a lot of foreigning. And since the elections are closer, of course, that Croatian citizens are not going to be told what is specifically planned to be done, this short-term rebalancing for election purposes has been prepared. We won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203836	Thank you, too. A little intervention, so we're moving on. Next is counterpart Rezimir Varda, Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203837	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have tried to analyze these several hundred pages normally, but I am not an expert as our fellow MPs, former finance ministers, to enter all items, and neither is it actually my duty. However, what I have succeeded through that analysis is to understand it next. As regards the draft amending and supplementing the budget, the State budget for 2020 Looking at the plan, the income plan and the expenditure plan through the financing account, it is clear to me that we need to formally resolve the situation that occurred after we made decisions in this assembly regarding this crown crisis. So, formally these 25, or I don't know how many billions of kunas we have to and legally regulate in relation to the State Budget Act. I am pleased that the end line did not touch the expenditure because this means that we continue to invest and all that was actually planned in the state budget for 2020. But it's clear to me that we have to go into lending, borrowing loans to cover everything we've planned and everything that's come from the crown of the virus. However, what I actually expected in the 2021 and 2022 projections, which I did not find except that part relating to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in 2020. Of some 141 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Environmental Protection Fund, to say the least, and these are chimneys, these boilers, gnomes, etc. Of course I expected, given the situation that the 50th day has passed since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, that there will be some talk about, in projections for 2021 and 2022. Because on the basis of the fact that I didn't find anything, I could conclude the citizens of the City of Zagreb that as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, I'm not going to say, in this case, about the government as a whole, as if there was no earthquake. Why is that, I don't know, but I think it was necessary to give at least a detailed written explanation for the 2021 and 2022 projections. If we could do something in the projections for those years, I'm not sure I'm a respected minister because there's no law. The Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb after an earthquake that should allow not only the city of Zagreb but also rural areas and other districts affected by the earthquake, the efficient and quality restoration of family houses in rural areas and historical urban areas of the Lower City, the Upper City and the City and the Kaptola. Why is there no law? I had little information with the representatives of the city of Zagreb in this committee at the ministry or at the Government on the text of the law, yesterday there was a meeting, the representatives of the city of Zagreb were not even invited. Apparently, according to some information again, such a bill proposal, unknown, goes into e-consultation and reportedly very short, 3 to 5 days later, will come to the Parliament. According to my information, it's a bill that has structural problems that won't even be able to fix the amendments. Why? Well, because I don't think there's any renewal if it's run by politics and if it's run specifically by the Department of Construction. We would have to establish the correct, secure sources of funding for reconstruction that will last 10, 15, maybe 20 years. Which can be restored, sources of funding, we need to make a decision when we make the law. If I don't know, I'm saying it by heart, if that's a certain percentage of the price of fuel, water, I don't know what it is, but these sources need to be safe. Secondly, if I said politics can't lead to reconstruction, then we have an example of Dubrovnik. But we have an example of Gunja. Then it is necessary to establish an institution that will run this reconstruction with safe sources of funding and with an interdisciplinary group of people from architects, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Artists, Ministry of Culture, etc., who will be leading the continuing reconstruction of the Croatian capital, I repeat with safe sources of funding. If that is not the case, if such a law that does not provide for it comes to the Assembly for discussion, this club will think a lot about whether we will also support this rebalancing budget in relation to the projections and whether we will support such a Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203838	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today is the rebalancing that should answer the question of how to help the economy at the entrance so far is the biggest crisis from which we will recover very long and slowly. The scope of the crisis will only eventually be seen when we see what happens to the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. I expect that in June there will be the first big wave of redundancies in the economy and in autumn, probably that number of 400,000 unemployed will be exceeded and we will reach a large number of people will be unemployed so we will be larger than that figure that was there around 2000. We know that the 2008 and 2009 crisis was a major crisis but it's like a little kindergarten compared to what's coming to us. Reported earthquakes in financial markets will cause tsunamis in economies and small ones such as the Croatian economy, will stick to the wall on their tails. Especially countries such as Croatia that are consumed by corruption. There are the biggest victims to be ordinary, honest citizens and citizens who live very modestly, and that is the vast majority. Tourism will not recover to these levels at which it has been and it will definitely undermine what the government is very modestly suggesting and their quasi-sacrifice forecasts have only one purpose and this is a promotion before the elections and are pure regret and deception of citizens and citizens. This government doesn't think at all what the consequences of their policies will be. If, by any chance, this first wave of pandemic corona pandemic coincides with the second wave, which is certain, it will lead to even greater problems in the economy, it will be worse than the Titanic scenario. It was once your coalition partner who was then in opposition, now talking about it, telling colleagues from HDZ. The current rebalance increases the public debt from 73% to 86.7% of GDP, and from this rebalancing it is quite evident that the government is not ready for this first scenario of the pandemic corona, let alone for the second. But it doesn't matter because the consequences of these policies will pay for citizens by falling standards. If this government were still considering improving all Croatian citizens and citizens then, in this budget rebalancing, they would see certain indications of how to react to the crisis that will affect us. It will affect both the left and right sides of this assembly, will affect all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. From this rebalancing, we clearly don't see it. Now is the chance to make changes in this rebalancing process that we should have made in previous years, but obviously it wasn't for that, there was no courage. This government doesn't mean thousands of private sector workers from production who are going to lose their jobs, obviously they're not the future of this country. The government primarily thinks of thousands of HDZ arrests that are in the pockets of Croatian citizens and citizens. They've proven that in the last 5 years. when they were in power, the authorities in which Karamarko and Plenkovic ruled. The government wants to withdraw the real, if this government wanted to make the right moves to save the Croatian economy, let's say it would abolish membership, compulsory membership in the HGK and the HGK turn into a real external trade, export chamber such as all those countries that want to increase exports and presence in international markets. Why doesn't the government dare do that? For the reason that the HGK is networked with HDZ's earrings. This government is on its way with the help of citizens who have lost their jobs by throwing money out of helicopters, and now it's a bit of a head breaker, we said it's not right, that it's not good, that these money was supposed to go to citizens, so those who lost their jobs because their companies or their trades were closed. At the time, it was claimed that everything was under control, as Minister Aladrovic said today, it is not natural for a company that pays dividends to receive support from the state. Well, that's what's in the taste of all the support they need to get those who need it. The one who pays the dividend... Support is not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only that, we said that we should be careful who is paid because this is the state support that falls under EU law and there is no jurisdiction of the state inspectorate, there is no jurisdiction of the tax administration, there is a minister, there is a power of the HZZ that has no capacity at all to control all those who are given support. And according to some data, they were not denied today by Minister Aladrovic, 7 out of 10 support found irregularities. I note that 6.5 billion kunas will be given to entrepreneurs to preserve jobs. A huge sum, if 7 out of 10 were given incorrectly, then we can count on what would happen because Minister Aladrovic announced that those who received illegal support would return it. And how will they repay, who will return, who will establish it? I expect that we will have great problems with the EU and as far as I know, the ARPA is already wild on HZZ because it is obvious that the support has been paid by hand and hat without any control. I asked the minister today, if we gave money to large companies, tens of millions of kunas, was the government ready to enter the ownership structure of these companies? The minister didn't answer, but it's something that makes sense. If we give money to preserve jobs, these big companies will continue to work, why wouldn't the state have part of the ownership structure? The company when it recovers, the part that the state has in, so the company's owns the stock market, is sold and the money returns to the budget. If a great German, who has a much stronger, stronger economy than we do, enters the ownership structure of the Lufthansa, why wouldn't the Croatian state enter the ownership structures of the companies it gives money to? But obviously there's no such thing as will. We don't know why, for what reasons, maybe someday we'll find out why the government doesn't want to enter that process. It would be very good, I hope Minister Maric does, too, to announce to whom the support was paid, and who paid the dividend. This has the opportunity to do so, but it is obvious that Minister Aladrovic and the people in charge of the payment of support have not done their job well if this should not have happened to them. One more thing that could have been resolved by now, and it is moving forward with the changes that are necessary for the matter of privileged pensions. Citizens are very sensitive to privileged pensions, especially the issue of defence pensions, and I am absolutely sure that defenders would have nothing to do with solidarity with citizens in that part and to equalise their rights with other citizens. It is now an opportunity to correct that injustice. However, I am not sure that Minister Medved, who is the parent and sponsor of various associations that celebrate "For Home Ready" and who want the situation to remain this way, will want those large pensions to be equal with pensions that are receiving citizens. Here I call on Minister Medved to be honorable and to correct the injustice against Croatian citizens, as well as the honorable defenders who want to stop Stigmatisation as those who have fought for their privileges, not for the freedom of the country. Now it's an extraordinary opportunity to do it, but I'm sure HDZ won't do it because it's the electoral body and it's the people who choose HDZ. As far as the health system is concerned, the health system has suffered a great sacrifice at the moment as regards the crown epidemic itself and these 100 million kuna rebalances that are currently in the system, certainly not enough to correct all the problems we have in health care. With this, Minister Maric himself said today that last year we ended up with 8 billion kunas of debt in the health system, during the crown of the crisis, these debts were even more and it is clear that there are not enough and there will not be enough funding in the HZZ, because there is a reduction in contributions, a reduction in payments, a payment of contributions, therefore, and there are big, big cuts waiting for us, and in the rebalancing of the budget there is nothing and there is nothing, we see nothing. That 100 million kuna is not something that will help the system. However, what the Government could do, which is, to touch certain privileges, and I see there the part that is related to the Vatican Treaties because I think, as far as the Vatican Treaties are concerned, it's absolutely certain that they can't change without the other side agreeing to it, but on the other hand, the budget pays off the large funds of the church. And I am quite sure that the government has started talking to church dignitaries that this part of the budget is not being paid or reduced at the moment is the situation as it is, it would probably also get a positive answer from the church because the church should also be solidarity with our citizens who have lost their jobs and who will lose their jobs. I note that the first, first big wave is expected in six months, and in the fall we will break the number of 400,000, 400,000 unemployed. How much of that number at this point no one will know. Tourism will probably be something, but not as it used to be, and this is quite certain budget rebalancing first in a row, it should have been before, at the beginning of the crown crisis, however, obviously that HDZ is in a hurry to vote and wished to have, in those two months that are now ahead of us, funds to pay the salaries and therefore he is also the one who is very strange. In all other countries, if you have a decrease in income, you also have a reduction in expenditure. In this you have a decrease in income, and expenses remain the same. We'll be in charge. Yeah, now we can get in charge because the situation is favourable, but it's a question of what we're going to do, what happens in the fall, whether we're going to be in charge of what interest. But at this point, the HDZ is only important to bring budget rebalancing and to go to elections, it will have little problems as I see with my coalition partners from Milan Bandic's party because if the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is not passed, I think the elections will have problems in the City of Zagreb, so I expect that we will have this law here very quickly, because it is something that we owe the citizens of Zagreb. This rebalancing that goes towards purchasing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this is not a crisis-responsive rebalance, nor is this a rebalancing that will lead to us going through this crisis as easily as possible. It's happening again in 2008 and 2009. when HDZ was also in power, when we were hit by a major crisis that would be a kindergarten according to what awaits us now. HDZ didn't manage it then, it doesn't work out now, because obviously it's easier for them to rule when there's money than when the crisis comes. Well, let's just remember, then, the senader said the state was in a banana. I think that at this point we are even more in a banana than we were then and this rebalancing will be voted on, but it is not a solution for what citizens need, and that is to go through a crisis with as few victims as possible, and the biggest victims will be submitted by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who will lose their jobs, so we expect there to be over 400,000 unemployed in the winter. This rebalancing doesn't give an answer to how to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203840	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is a debate between colleagues Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203841	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the rebalancing that everyone said, otherwise you wouldn't be if we weren't in this situation. In fact, we are giving a more outline of what has hit us all and we realize that it is necessary absolutely to take measures not only of those taken but still to take action and put the economy first with the safety of our citizens. These are the two basic things that we all here and, in general, at all levels of politics and local level should be dealt with. Security and the economy and connect those two, which apparently was incompatible, were we stopping the economy for safety reasons. I'm not going to enter into this issue of elections at all, I've said something in my free speech that someone here says in front of the government that because of this situation we're going towards a decision to extend this term to another year of today, I don't think anyone would come out alive and it would be a scandal. On the other hand, if someone in front of the government says that we're going to make a choice if they're up for it, then it's not good, because right now it doesn't fit the opposition, so maybe a little bit later when it's more appropriate or when security conditions come in, that's what I think everybody's the same thing, it has to be the same thing to everyone. And we won't support any election, even if it's just so declarative, if we disband it doesn't mean there has to be an automatic election because if there's no conditions for the election, there won't be. I don't know who dares endanger the citizens. So, that's quite hypothetical, but what I do know is that citizens don't have time to wait and decisions have to be made and that the government has to make it that has full legitimacy. Because again on the other hand, we can't get that everything is normal, that we owe Croatia, that we make decisions, that we negotiate without legitimacy. In recent months, the government can't afford sheep and money. Now that I've summed it up, I actually see that it would be a good thing if it were an election, but when it suits the opposition. Well, maybe not right away, until this is stabilized a little bit, but at nine months, that'll still give it a better chance. That's not how it works. I don't remember until now, but I don't remember in this 30-year-old almost history when we went to election by law enforcement. Maybe someone here can correct me here from the elderly, and I don't think it's ever happened here that we've been going to elections by running out of mandate on its own that he hasn't disintegrated what he's about to say on the 16th of this year. So far, most of them have been disbanding the parliament and thus directed the decision towards the elections were they in 2000, 2003, in spite of the changes in the system in 2000, and we know why they were not the elections, 2003, 2007, 2015, and then again 2016, etc. And that's how it's been. And now was it more or later or later that it was speculating about it. The security of the economy, the point, and we owe it to the citizens. This rebalancing, what I said in the replica, I'm glad on the expenditure side, I said it two months ago that we should not succumb to one part of the consummation of consumption, at least a state that makes up 20% of GDP, but we should actually increase it, systematically, meaningfully. I don't mean spending on employees, but they're reducing the amount if I'm not wrong about about 300 million, no pardon 391 million 391.7 million less for employees, so it's not something spectacular, we're just going to go through percentages by every ministry, but it's exactly that investment maintenance, the renewal and all those investments where there's added value, and we're starting the economy that classic mini deal whatever they call it, I don't think we can stop that's 20% of GDP. The other 20% is consumption. We're saying that we expect a drop of something below 10% in this year's GDP, what's the main reason for that is consumption, so we say that one of the parameters where we can observe the same by consumption is VAT, most importantly, it decreases by 22%, VAT revenues by 12.1 billion kuna. Income from profit tax by 30% 2.8, income from special taxes and excise duties by 16% or 2.7, and we have now corrected and increased. By the way, they've even increased revenues in this lock down from excise duties to cigarettes but not because I think they're more consummated than because they're less carried across borders. And the revenue from contributions has also been reduced by 15% and 3.8 billion kuna, respectively. So it's obviously going down. That's how we react. The basic reaction was to find funds by borrowing, so in projections, we've increased practically to double what planned borrowings are if I'm not wrong about which ones it's supposed to be, I think somewhere from 30 to 60 billion planned borrowing incomes. I'm talking about borrowings from 26.8 to 63 more than double. Why? Now here they say we're in debt, etc., so there's a lot of suggestions that we've proposed to give to everyone, throw money out of what kind of wonders, planes, balloons, helicopters I don't know what's not heard here, give everybody a hand and a hat because it's nice to hear, people will be found somewhere, recognized and someone will say see this care about me, absolutely clear. I think what he's saying from the field is that this non-payment measure and the non-refundable 3,250 per 4,000 kuna has gotten that people have stayed to work and it's got its effects and that's why we've singled out practically 4.5 billion kuna is scheduled, according to this budget a total of 5 billion. I asked what about the EUR, because I am neither a Eurofil as regards currency nor a Kunofil, I am a citizen if we talk like that, so what is in the citizens' interest is actually the primary goal of all of us should be, without some nationalist neglect that I must say so and pretending who prefers Croatia and beats a stronger heart. And it's good to hear that we've met all the conditions, and the Master's criterion is that.../incomprehensible/... looking at the aggregate level can be discussed, so it stays the way it is. What also concerned me and what I'm commenting on is the export of services, thinking the most about tourism decline of 70% is assumed, that that's what we said 20% of GDP is tourism and we're very dependent on this tourism, not through direct income from taxis, etc., residence fees but also the indirect through increased consumption which then comes with us where we use and sell our products of course not to the extent that we want foreign tourists. Now that and the hidden source, the export is not, is not, will not be possible to realize. So that's where a really challenging season awaits us. But according to these projections, recovery is expected if I can read well 9.4% of GDP growth is expected already in the 4th quarter, it is not listed, but by the logic of things it can predict from these papers. So, what was also a speech, I'm just going to relate to employment, I have to say that I'm not quite clear about it, says new employment and the admission of officials and tenants to indefinite and specific times is prohibited. If they are provided with funds for staff expenditure from general income and income, therefore not if they are from projects or from HZZO funds, it is now a wider story and says the exception that a minister can be granted. We have already been banned from employment since 2010, according to the project model, yes, 2 for 1, yes, otherwise not. But somehow I don't feel like we have fewer employees compared to 2010, but I'm going to ask the Ministry of Administration, hopefully give me an answer on the movement of the number of employees in the state administration. And it says about the salaries for employees, something that is important again for the next government to enter the trade unions negotiations with the unions, so it says a reduction of expenditure for employees at the government 5.2%, the Ministry of Finance 5.8%, the Ministry of Defence 1.7, the Ministry of the Interior 1.3, that's not clear to me, Ministry of Croatian Defence 0.6, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts 5.2, Ministry of State Property 6.9, Ministry of Culture 5.4, Ministry of Agriculture 3.5, Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds 3.4, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 5.3, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning 8.1, Ministry of Environment and Energy 3,9, Ministry of Education 0.3 reduction, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Tourism 20.5, Ministry of Tourism 20.3, administration of 0.3, Demography, Justice 1.9 and the Ministry of Health in its divisions provides an increase of 2.7%, which is logical in all terms. So obviously, here some planning of the increase we agreed on, signed and originally not secured in the budget, are not now and that it will be something that awaits us because we had negotiations and those strikes of the union after the budget and we are not in the meantime if memory does not cheat or have rebalancing. So these increases are obviously gone and I say more or less everyone except for some exceptions that are not clear to me, too, recorded the decline in staff expenditure, whether it's due to the lack of overtime or not, but mostly it's all percentages. As for the Law on Reconstruction, I would like him to be here in this rebalancing although his funding is provided for by the Solidarity Fund and other European funds, therefore not only from my own revenue or budget, I am glad that it is not only waiting for laws but also for other fronts to immediately bring fire-fighting measures and here above all I am thinking about these almost 100 million kunas secured for the replacement and repair of chimneys, or 41 million from the position of the fund for the purchase of water heaters or condensation boilers, because it is practically necessary to ensure people that if we do not already have colder time but that they have at least sanitary water and some minimum. It's also going to propose parallel financing for home design with those yellow and red tags, that it's also coming out, that it's already going to do something, but the general law on reconstruction, the roof law that needs to be decided by dozens and dozens, over 40 billion damages, is not in this rebalancing and cannot be done until there's no law, it's absolutely clear, when we adopt it, then we can hope to secure the funds, so I expect to put that procedure, as far as I know the law, the bill is almost last week, he's committed to the prime minister and we wait for him to enter, go through the government procedure and be put into public debate and be put on the government as soon as possible, because we recognize that it shouldn't be passed overnight, but that it should be brought to, absolutely, and whether it's left to any other government or not, I think that my position is not to bring it to be better, but to the better, not to the best, but to the night. So, as far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, we have mentioned that, in general, although I am glad that this projection of the reduction of 9.4 GDP is more negative than what the European Commission has given us with more than 7%, but I think it is important that we have left the expenditure that we are focusing precisely on that consumption and generation and consumption, and therefore economic activity, and that this is a good direction that we have not been reducing despite the decline in revenue over 26 billion, we have remained at the same level of expenditure, we have only redistributed and we have told what is our priority, and there is also a minister who has the support of our own, that this is a way to keep going, to see that this spilling to these extra budget users, so that they will go to this accelerated investment cycle, everything that I can immediately start and what was planned this year and the next year to start this step, and that way, and that we are going to get back to the crisis that way we are now, where we are going to a lot of financial crisis. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203842	Thank you, too. This concludes the debates on behalf of clubs, we continue with an individual debate, only technical notice to all MPs and MPs, individual debate takes 5 minutes. Comrade Babic, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last November, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget for 2020 in accordance with then defined macroeconomic indicators on GDP growth in Croatia with projected revenue and expenditure almost on a balanced budget. Meanwhile, in the world, both Europe and Croatia have significantly changed the circumstances conditioned by the global pandemic of the virus and the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, and this budget has been a practical result, i.e. a better said result of these events that have significantly conditioned a reduction in economic activity, which resulted in a resulting clear reduction in the revenues of the state budget and expenditures which could not have been foreseen at the time when we were making the budget here in HS. This significant decrease in revenue of around 25 billion kuna is clearly defined in this rebalancing. But what needs to be singled out is the fact that unforeseeable expenditures that are paid monthly primarily for, as support for job conservation, employers' liquidity and for maintaining business activities in the Republic of Croatia and that this is a significant amount as it says in the explanation of around 7 billion kuna, but in spite of that fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance have, within their own redistributions, maintained that level of expenditure of the state budget, so that the deficit of the state budget would amount to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. I am that this fact of reducing business activities defines this macroeconomic framework in the Republic of Croatia, which this year, as we heard from the government and the ministry, will be 9.4% of GDP. But what it says about the exact estimates this government has shown over the past 3.5 years. that these estimates, always at the end of the year, and at the end of the year, the basis of the data of the State Statistics Institute, proved to be correct, even moreover, the government entered this rebalancing with real mathematical economic indicators, which is more so when we see that the European Commission is planning a lower GDP decline of around 0.3% of GDP and, on the other hand, GDP growth in the coming year, larger than the one the government, the government predicted for the next year, which is 6.5%. So far, during the club debate, I have heard numerous objections from the opposition and how they would act in this situation. I have to say that the government, and while not focusing too much on the work of the CZ Staff, is at this point not in the focus of my exposure above all, I am here focusing on the government's response to the many measures, the economic measures that we have taken in two packages, both in that March and in that April package, and in this May package where, where we are planning and already defined around EUR 100 million of reduction, and tax or parafiscal burdens on the one hand, and on the other hand, in negotiations with trade unions, retain this level of budget that is sustainable and which is good and acceptable. And the government of these measures, these two, with this, two packages of measures, I intend, and I am convinced that they will succeed, manage to preserve the economy when coming out of this epidemic that is more painless, which is easier to continue with, the businessmen continue with their business activities. So I have to say that I'm surprised that in a certain way, imputing the government that in forwarding the support for the preservation of jobs, it should have entered into the ownership of certain employers of economic operators because as a result, it might have been that total number, about 600,000 or something less, I wouldn't be counting now, I wouldn't be guessing, but I believe that a number of employers would find out that they're going to be owned for that part. If they were then, I didn't even notice that we had five minutes, so that they would be taken into possession, that way they would have left their employees to HZZ. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203844	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203845	Dear Representative Bačić, I have a question for you, and this question is asked by many people involved in the transportation of passengers, especially when it comes to buses driving tourists. The fact is, the government banned tourists from entering the country, banned them from working on the other side, and on the third hand, the Leasing Houses continued to send credit rates to collect or rate leases, whatever they call it. I wonder why the government doesn't do anything about it. So, people have lost any income, and wars come at the rate of interest. By my judgment, the way you treat carriers is unserious because these people are going to find themselves in large financial delinquency, so I'm interested in your opinion and to tell me maybe the government has really decided to do something to help them, I'm interested in your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203846	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, the government did not prohibit tourists from entering, but closed their borders in this pandemic of the state's coronary. Therefore, we and if we had allowed anyone to arrive in the Republic of Croatia this arrival is not possible because the states that would be... and to the tourist markets because of their problems because they also close borders and traffic, the crossing across borders has been stopped. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for lying and credit at all, you're wrong. Both the government and the CNB and, with, with, with financial institutions aligned, agreed a moratorium that could be up to 12 months and which, the length of the moratorium, is agreed by both the bank and the client. And sometimes it's also in the interest of the client not to be 12 months, but to be shorter and depending on the position of the client, the moratorium is also agreed on shorter interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203848	Thank you. Dear representative Mrsic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203849	Dear colleague Bacic, you are trying to explain inexplicably. If one Germany that has an economy much stronger than we, which has also given its workers millions of euros, owns the structure of Lufthansa and other companies to which it has also delivered millions of euros, if the Croatian state has given 20 or 30 million kunas to certain companies, does not want to enter the ownership structure, in order to one day return those money back to the budget again and use it for something else, then something does not make sense to me. Otherwise, your Minister Aladrovic wonders today and says it is not natural for someone who pays dividends and bonuses to receive support and received support from each other. Therefore, you cannot explain why the state would not enter the ownership structure of the company in which 30, 40 or 50 million kuna will land today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203850	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you should have made little arrangements within the opposition with your own performances, as to whom it comes to mind, so it comes out for a pay phone and proposes measures. Let every country take care of its economy, a few years ago there was a specimen that Germany very richly and generously responded to all employers, so Grant gave them billions and billions of euros. We acted differently at the time, and now we've estimated that this is the most favourable way to access employers. Perhaps some employers would if they knew that they were going to be owned, simply thanked and said that we are not to blame for the economic situation, deliver you 50, 100, 200, 300 000 of our employees while the crisis is going on for you at the Employment Service, so you solve it financially with them, and we will continue to maintain those activities, business activities that we can in accordance with the principle of supply and demand. Therefore, every country chooses its own path, I think this time, which Croatia has chosen best for both the state and employers, and what is important for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203852	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203853	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you should not be overly burdened with your colleagues in the opposition because they have agreed with everything for a month, but now for a month they agree with nothing, it just bothers them because I can't believe that this is happening in Croatia in the best possible way. Let's say that Mrsic forgot while he was a minister that was in one time, I think one 420,000 unemployed, and I remember asking him to shut down that counter at the office because it was embarrassing, today the problem is 150,000 with everything we've been through in the past 2 months, so I support what you've said and the fact is that we did especially in public finances, the maximum possible to keep means of employment but that the system of public finances can normally function, and we who have been in local self-government for years, and we see how that works. All I can say about this minister is words of praise for everything he's done to us in the past three years and in this crisis right now. We can say that what we need comes neatly from the state regardless of all problems. Whoever wants to confirm it will, whoever won't, doesn't have to, but it's in the budget, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203854	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join my congratulations to our Deputy Prime Minister of Finance for managing the financial system of the state above all and in this crisis. I failed Mr. Mrsic, I agree with the number of employees at a time when he was Minister of Government and that dial, today there are 160 or 152, 3,000 unemployed, if I'm not mistaken. If it was possible to go to this model that he said before, we would have crossed that 420,000 very quickly and then to get rid of it later, I don't know. And with the right of counterpart Mrsic, he says that Minister Aladrovic expressed his position when it comes to employers who would pay dividends when the state delivered millions and millions of kunas to keep them busy, preserve jobs. Every item needs to be carefully considered, the employer needs to know that if he pays the dividend, that either that part of it must be returned or blocked, there are many ways to act and react but there will be time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203856	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this budget rebalance is primarily for those who have been playing the unfaithful Tom all along and hitting on each other here, should be put there. So, what does the government have to show for this rebalance? First, if she is aware that due to the coronary virus, due to the disturbances of certain economic activities, the income side will be greatly devastated and at the 3 most important revenues of the state budget, these are so-called. Consumer taxes, VAT and excise duties, contribution to pension, if you look at extra budget users, then you will see a contribution to health insurance and profit tax. So, this is about the revenue side, but what is very important and what has been said very little today is that, despite the fact that there have been some new costs, I think, above all, and this is the highest cost for preserving jobs, the government has decided to ask all budgetary users, insists that every minister, every user, the cost that simply could not have happened because of the reduced activities because of something else, that these budget users reduce their budgets and thus keep the expenditure side at the level as originally planned. And I think it's a great quality. The following thing to be said here, that the government in the talks, by means of agreements, has imported the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensured uninterrupted funding that it is missing in the state budget, and the shortages that outside budget users have and what is very important, this financial sector is preparing for what will come to say, the day after. And today it is later when certain economic activities are to be launched, if these certain economic operators do not have financial resources, they will very hard to do so. And what I said today in my replica, which is what we all have to pay attention to, especially the Government, which is that not only out-of- budget users, but all the companies in which the state is either a minority or a majority owner, have to think about carrying out obligations because simply what the state has any control must not be the indifference generator because that indifference is the most dangerous thing that can happen to us after what we're talking about. And one more thing, reform. So, all of our mouths are full of reform, but no one today has said that the state administration has taken one huge step practically 7 miles in moments when it was practically impossible to function, when citizens via the Internet, through some other electronic means were able to perform their own needs, although it was a long time ago idea when the OIB was being introduced to link the state administration in such a way and that citizens didn't have to go door to door but simply to file a request and then to have the state administration do their part of the job on official duty. Eh, colleagues and colleagues, I'll do two things with that. So when you look at the rebalance of the state budget, when you look at the expenditure side that is the most significant items of pay, pension, health care. Is there anything that can be changed without reform? He can't. And we just have to be aware of that, the ministers who are currently negotiating with the unions are aware of the situation that unions won't give in, no one's asking that with reform someone, some kind of right be reduced. We simply want to pay for those who work, and those who do not work or need to be in the state administration and thus get to a better, more efficient state administration that will benefit everyone, both citizens and economics and everyone. And what I always talk about when I talk about budget rebalancing is out-of- budget users. They are the ones who tomorrow with their financial potential and with their investment and investment from the EU fund, funds can be the generator of that first step in Croatia's economic recovery. Because colleagues and colleagues fall by 9%, 9.5, 10% is not something that won't leave any kind of scar on the RS economy, because we have to be simply aware of that and that's something that doesn't suffer political bickering. It's something that requires the political consent of all of us, to pass the laws to restore that economy, or else we'll tap like the SDP government tampered with 3 years after this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203858	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović's, all right. Then let's go to the replicas first. He's the first respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203859	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to read to you the letter or the announcement of Dragutin Hanžek. It's about a man who's been punished with 8,000 kuna fines because he went in his own tractor to unload the manure on his own field. He says, dear friends, I can't help but tell you about yesterday's announcement of headquarters for the upcoming elections. Mr. Capak's statement that the elections could be made at the time of self-insulation, it completely freaked me out, and then he explains that he was punished for taking the manure into the field. So here I'm asking you, is it normal for you, Mr. Schucker, that at the same time that people in self-insulation can go out to elections without a problem, and on the other hand, that these same people can't unload the fertilizer on their own field and they're being punished for it with 8,000 kuna? Is it economically justified for you, is it in the interest of people, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203860	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You must first know that these two decisions are not at the same time. At the moment when the movement was limited, practically between the settlements because of simply preventing the spread and it is today a confirmation that it definitely gave the results, and what you're talking about now is someone saying something like this along the way but at this point the e-passes have already been abolished, you can travel all over Croatia today that no one is stopping you. Therefore, you speak in two terms at different times. You can't put them at the same time. Because you're talking about someone being able to go to the election you're talking about the future that's gonna happen in a month and a half, two, three, it doesn't matter when, and when you talk about someone who couldn't go to their field, you're talking about the time that practically ended 10 or 15 days ago, and that provision was passed almost two months ago. And it's just a fact, and it's not good to mix and confuse things like that. If there was some awkwardness about those e-passes, it's probably But unfortunately, we're all as divided as we are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203862	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203863	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker when you spoke about the disturbance of certain economic activities in the Republic of Croatia this morning I received some information from our environment, here's SR Germany wondering this morning who will pay the account of the crown virus. They account for over 101 billion in the federal budget, and the drop in GDP is 6.3%, so it's not that small. What they fear is the loss of jobs, or strengthening social giving. So, the coronary virus and what found us, and also about this budget, the rebalancing of the RS budget is nothing new and unusual, no matter how many colleagues today talked about what could be done and how it could be done, but the fact is that not only we but the countries in the environment are actually going through the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203864	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203865	My colleague Babic, first this government said that health and its citizens are first in line. After some indicators were established, after knowledge of the experts, measures on the economy began to relax a little. The government also made it clear that certain activities that, due to the government's provisions, cannot function will help in such a way as to pay wages, etc. So the government has made it clear at the right time what needs to be done. However, now comes the day after which we are expected and the need for social contributions and the need to finance certain activities, and therefore a complete financial sector should at the moment be urged to use the funds available to the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia to be primarily at the service of the economy, to encourage it, as well as the state to finance its commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203866	Thank you very much. He raised his hand, it seems to me for a break, the esteemed representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203867	That's right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I demand a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, the Living Wall, and it concerns our debate on budget rebalancing. In fact, it is unacceptable that the expenditures of the state budget are reduced by not a single lip, and why? Because, respected citizens, over the past month, for a month and a half, minimals have been paid to certain companies, in particular bookmakers, and especially to debt enforcement agencies. This is where I'm going to provide one of the information from one of those agencies that was in 2013. Founded with 500,000,00 kn capital, capital capital, and this debt-to-deposit agency today has over 400 million kunas of underlying capital. So over the past years they have made enormous profits, and today the Croatian state, or this government, is helping them. Dear citizens, are you in favour of paying taxpayers' money to casinos, bookies and debt agencies? I'm sure you didn't. The second thing, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions in the last few days that if we had introduced the EURo, we were in a much better situation because we would have access to unlimited liquidity. In the past month, two German academics have signed a complaint to the German Constitutional Court because the European Central Bank bought state bonds from EUR 2600 billion from 2015 to 2018. The Germans have gone mad and are asking the question, claiming that Germany has no right, means to bear and finance to that end. They gave the European Court of Justice the ultimatum to respond within 3 months. This is the beginning of a great, let's just say, not the end of a monetary union, but the big problems, and they assure us it's security and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203868	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give it to you, and we have more requests for a break. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203869	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I am looking for a break because of the Croatian public to tell the true indicators. So it's not true that the budget hasn't been cut because this corona crisis is on the cost side of the state budget demanding new costs that are nearly 8-9 billion kuna. And if the budget hadn't been reduced then there would have been an increase in the expenditure side by 8 or 9 billion kuna, but since all budget users have cut their original budget for all those expenditures that will not happen because of the situation we are in, the government has therefore shown great effort and thus sent a message that it wants to keep the expenditure of the state budget at which they were voted. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, in finance is the worst ex-wise. We've had twice in the HS debate over government measures about incentives for, to retain seats. No one, but literally none of the MPs have risen, and that's what he said, and that one has no right to do it. But at the same time, you all forget that HANFA has made a decision on some of the financial sectors that it controls that can't pay off dividends. The CNB has made a decision that banks cannot pay the dividend. If someone has abused this government provision to help preserve jobs, the tax administration and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will establish it, punish it, pay back the money and what I think all fellow parliamentary representatives agree, the name of the company should be publicly published and placed on the pillar of shame. But in this way, you can't bid this one, you can't bid that one, you should be brave when measures have been taken, and that word has no right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that. So it's important at the right moment to react, help, because of the little weenie we can't throw away the whole grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203870	Thank you. We'll give you a break for up to 16 and 25. It's 4:00 P.M. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we've run out of time to take a break, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203872	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the respected chief state treasurer, Jakir Bajo, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when the budget agreed for this year, it was difficult to assume that we would also be hit by a pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and even less, on top of that, the earthquake. In June 2017, this government managed to get out of the excessive budget deficit procedure and in the 3rd year's orders, we recorded a budget surplus and a strong reduction in the share of public debt in GDP by more than 11% points compared to the end of 2015. We were proud to read last summer that Croatia was in debt for the first time at a negative interest rate. In 2019, the tourist year, the record year, we recorded with an increase of as much as 17% more income than what this government found and the increase in income, the arrival of 20% and the night of 16%, and it was really hard to imagine that the pandemic of the coronary virus would not stop, but suddenly that all of this fell into the water as if nothing had worked so and that we did not fast. As I said, on top of that, there was a city of Zagreb and an earthquake, few who said today and mentioned that as much as 40% of the income of the Republic of Zagreb or 58% of total profits of the entrepreneurs were achieved. To rebalance the budget in which revenues are significantly reduced, almost gone over the past months on some items, while retaining the same expenditure, is indeed a great skill and vice-president of the ministry and the entire government. In the past, the government has sought and succeeded, primarily to protect our lives, our health, and our jobs. In fact, the first package of measures, we had 63 measures and the second package provided for numerous and subsidies, delays in paying a certain tax, and only one measure, I would say, the most attractive one, with which to pay, is the salary of 4 thousand kuna, with the corresponding fees, was the most popular one, and only this measure last month will save about 600 thousand jobs, i.e. assistance from nearly 96,000 entrepreneurs. When I listen to some colleagues today when they say, we won't support this budget rebalance, I wonder if they represent any entrepreneurs at all, whether they represent any workers, employees who would have found themselves at the Employment Office if there hadn't been this measure by the Government, and precisely those measures are contained in this budget rebalancing. Only to support job conservation is 6.7 billion kuna, from the EU funds 1.6 billion kuna. Citizens' and households' fees increased by 327,9 million, subsidies by 5 billion kuna, we have also heard a lot of criticism about EU funds. The criticism is, in fact, how the amount is reduced. We need to know that there is a shift in public procurement plans, prolonging and changes in planned labour dynamics, however, it should be said when we talk about EU funds that incorrect information that we have paid more than we have received. In fact, we're on the plus with March 31st of 25 billion kuna. All those funds that we are obliged to withdraw by 2019 according to all the operational programmes we have also withdrawn, so the goal is met, and many more funds have been received, or redistributed, around 400m euros from EU funds, which for the purchase of medical equipment, which is for loans and financial instruments, and also for job retention measures. Once again, given that the actual exposure of 5 minutes is extremely short, I call on all colleagues and colleagues, if they want to protect one worker who has applied for this measure, i.e. entrepreneurs, to support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203873	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203874	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. This calls for the number of unemployed, etc., and it is not said that it has not responded so quickly and prevented this very number of unemployed from happening two months ago. In two months, much has changed, conditions have been created for both economic recovery and work, and something better can always happen afterwards. So, in general, why do they cause what is not to be caused, when these measures have already achieved a great deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203875	Thank you very much. Answer, the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203876	Thank you, colleague Peric. Well, the truth is, it seems to me that all those who are against this rebalancing are against the funds that these many of our workers have received. Looks like you'd rather have 600,000 people at the Employment Service, so we'd have more reason to call this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203877	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203878	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Get INAs and HT and HEP, etc. It is also accomplished in your Vodice and in my Pula, just book in the city of Zagreb and it would be good for you to mention it as former mayor because this is just another example of how centralized Croatia is. But what I wanted to ask you was something else, and I asked that this morning and the Honorable Vice President of the government, but he didn't know or didn't want to answer, and the question concerns the pausals paid by our tenants. I'm asking you why you and I come from a region that is dominantly touristic and I'm sure you understand that problem. So I'm asking you if you consider this flat tax to be for the second quarter that's up to 30. 6, should I charge or write off after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203879	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203880	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, I would like to say populistly, I am so that all these taxes are deleted and that none of our citizens pay any taxes, but we need to know who earns a certain income or a certain amount of membership or tax, and there are some people with personal incomes, some families are fed. Therefore, there should be a good measure of forgiveness and delay. And as for the city of Zagreb, I agree with you, I would also agree that the VAT that is coming to the Plodines in my Vodice will be the income of the town of Vodice, but we know very much how it works because 35% of the population lives in the city of Zagreb, it should be said that 48% of the exports leave the city of Zagreb, therefore, are all facts that should be considered when it is passed, perhaps in due course, some other bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203881	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203882	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you referred naturally to the priorities that were and the priority of this government was of course to protect the health of citizens, then to preserve the jobs that are both the government and the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance but also the entire ministry made in a quick reaction but of course you also referred to the withdrawal of EU funds and funds, and in your debate you said that in plus 25 billion kuna and of course on March 31st this year. Of course, this is one normal sequence and we all couldn't plan this crisis in November last year, and I thank you once again, of course, to the rapid reaction of the government, but also to the Minister of Finance and the complete ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203883	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203884	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maksimchuk, it is true when speaking help from European funds, is said to only one figure which, in my view, only prolonged or moved plans and public procurement, and there has been a change in the planning of the dynamics of the works done, however, is such as a refund from EU aid increased by 120 million kuna, other EU programmes by 53 million, EU aid to 29 million and 625 000, which means that there have been some changes in both terms and internal excesses in a different way in order to give priority to helping the economy, jobs and health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203885	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203886	Thank you very much, Vice President, just a brief intervention, I don't normally get to interrupt the debate in this morning's replica and now at the replica of my colleague Martinchev Juričev as regards private tenants and this is about the second quarter, the second quarter. In the rules of the General Tax Law, I thought that this was how I responded because we had already signed the criteria, a greater exemption as foreseen. So it says very clearly, obligations for the second quarter of this year will not be charged, so private renters have been released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203887	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203888	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you for having responded very clearly now, but I will read to you what I did this morning before I asked you, I found on the Tax Administration pages, which is the tenants who have submitted a request for a postponement of payment for the commitment made on 31.3. Please intervene and tell your colleagues from the IRS that they are correcting this because it creates a confusion among everyone visiting the IRS official website, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203889	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203890	Thank you very much. All right, let's make it clear to each other and to those who are watching us, or to those to whom we are going to deliver these messages. 31.3. refers to the commitment for the first quarter, this is the first quarter, so the flat-rate borrowers pay quarter or quarter, at the end of the quarter for that previous quarter, so 31.3. for the first quarter, 30.6. for the second quarter and what is in the general tax law is intended to be released precisely for that second quarter that should be paid 30.6., this is released, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203891	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203892	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, yes, a large number of small tenants have this problem but there is an even bigger problem with a large part of Slavonians who were the seasonal labour force on our sea and were left without a job and a question on their behalf, which they can expect since the announcements of the tourist season are real, are they likely to run out of jobs and 5 and 6 and 7 months? So, because of them, models need to be found to help these people who were seasons, this is one thing and the other, it is certain to continue investing in the tourist development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, there have also been announced major projects of tourism promotion of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, whether in the rebalance and that part is being reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203893	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203894	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, well, I think that you are, as of course, a talkative advocate, my God, from there and you come as I do, for the development and development of Slavonia and Baranja and, in general, our geographical view of the East, I think we can agree and then I'll use the answer to your replica, a word exactly to remind everyone. Until some time ago, not so long ago a survey among entrepreneurs who are the first factor of the restriction of further economic activity, which limits you most in further steps, etc., a labour force, a lack of labour. Among other things, of course, now that we are talking about the problem of keeping jobs and preserving jobs, we need to sort of remind everyone of that not so long ago. So even seasonal workers from Slavonia who went down to Dalmatia to work during the season must surely work in these circumstances as such, of course, should not be neglected, but at the same time we repeat, so we put the measures we put into operation in the circumstances that they are and we will see how and how to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203895	We have another replica of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203896	Dear Minister, please answer the question precisely, in the last month in order to save the economy and help the economy, to what extent did you charge us at a fixed interest rate and at which, with a variable interest rate on loans and bonds? And another important question, did you negotiate these loans and bonds with the currency clause? Because if you accidentally made a deal, you never gave us that information, not you, not the Prime Minister. If you've put us in debt at a variable interest rate of 10 years. e.g., but for 2-3.g. The interest rate comes back to 4.5.6%, you've done a lot of damage, and you could've put us in charge of financing Kunski through the CNB at 0%. If you've negotiated a currency clause, you've done the same great harm because it increases the eurorization of the entire system, you're putting us at currency risk. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203897	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203898	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In particular, a concrete answer is available to you publicly anyway, but I will try to sum up those 6 billion and 100 million kunas that we have agreed with the 6 largest Croatian banks, bilateral arrangements, each of them of course details are known, I think that more than half of these arrangements are at a fixed interest rate, some of them are bound to a six-month vault record, so they have some variable component, but I repeat, more than half of them are fixed. The bond and vault records know that they are always practical at a fixed interest rate. So, the vault log that we've refinanced at an interest rate of 0.06 per year, that's the one that's reaching and will be reaching for now a little less than a year. And this bond that's recent, the last instrument that we've issued as well as each one is at a fixed interest rate of 0.75%, it was also a contribution, so we've issued it with a pair, per pair at 7.g. That's it. What? [[The bogeyman from the bench is heard.]] This last one is a billion EUR 445, so we're talking about, that's exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203899	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I would like to say a few words about the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. with projections for 2021 and '22. Because the basic question was whether or not to change the budget now or not to change it, the responsible Government made it clear that a budget rebalancing may also be taking place as part of the measures for the month. As the March March measures went, the March measures, so this is one of those parts of the March 2020 measure, and as a result of this pandemic that surprised us all. Going back only 3 months or 70 days, it's clear that we've all lived at our own pace, and no one has thought that we're going to talk here about budget rebalancing, we've all seen each other in different relationships, and there hasn't been any debate about whether the state is going in the right direction or wrong, we've mostly been dealing with some other topics that weren't at all about finance. But there was a virus that apparently locked not only us but the whole world. The strongest states, those that can on the moon, simply stand today locked up and fight for their population, i.e. for the health of its citizens. We do it now after this situation that we started to verify, for reasons unknown to me, because everything is comparable, and the data is all out there, I just don't understand why we're doing it? Why are the hardworking people on the front line being valued in a way that we now question them in general and their expertise and anything else in terms of some kind of politics? For what? So we have EU countries with which we can compare, our sizes, 4 million inhabitants, a little more population, so let's compare, it's not a problem at all. Let's look at Ireland, do we want that scenario? 20 and how many, 23 135 infected, 1500 dead. Or everyone's talking about some Swedish guy. Here's a colleague here who advocated a Swedish model. 27 000 infected, 3300 dead. Today we're creating a problem here, unfortunately, for the deceased in the nursing homes, and it didn't have to happen, it happened. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a problem or a virus that we don't have a solution for, but we're very easily earning efforts and all the citizens who were willing to lock themselves up or stop their lives to get out of this situation. I'm coming from the island, we've been locked up for 50 days, four ferry lines a day, just delivery, just delivery. Until recently, three regions within the county, here from Monday last we travel freely without passes and it's like all normal, nothing was normal. And I wonder by the reactions of everyone, for what? Why are we underestimating this effort that everyone has made to have the situation that we have today? We have 300 I think and 8 active people who are infected, 308, there are no countries in the EU that have so many. And that's too much for us. And it needs to be reduced, it'll shrink safely if we're responsible. And this, the government's reaction through the March measures, for April, so we first had the universal enthusiasm. General acceptance and now that we realize these measures, we are all against them because the opposition can and we know and accept it as a reaction because the goals are now quite another. They may even be imposed in some way on the side of the opposition. We wanted elections first, now we don't want them anymore. Okay, everybody's fighting for their own politics. . /. And I'm looking with And I'm looking from the local level, what are our calculations now? On communal compensation and pay contributions. We stopped everything else, especially those who live on tourism. No public area, no concession approvals, no concession revenues, no revenue practically from construction, here and there some contributions. There's no payment in the budget. Of course we've been reacting with rebalances, and we're waiting for what the government is going to say that we know what we're going to do, we've tried to do what we can. If a construction worker can't make it to the island, what can we do? We stopped all the projects. And these are situations that are real, they need to be looked at that way, not all politics. And let's be realistic, according to this effort, to reduce expenditures, but those 8 billion more that have been incurred as expenditure in the fight against something. And we can't underestimate it and say nothing has been reduced, not even by lime. Yeah, it's getting smaller, it's just a question of how anybody wants to read it. I know that every 150 of us here would put together a budget the way it suits him and no one would be satisfied. But I think this budget shows that we have a measure of optimism. What happens in the 10th month? I'd like to say we're gonna have a great season from 15.7 to 15.8. Maybe it's possible, and maybe it's not, it's not all up to us. I think we're showing responsibility and what people want from us. And it's to feel at least safe, as safe as it can be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203901	We have several replicas again, Mrsic's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203902	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, so no one doubts that the results are healthy, but here we are talking about throwing money without any criteria, and among the 10 biggest companies that received support from the state are hotel companies that have a permanent season, some baker's companies that were selling at the time, until we have companies that had a delivery, so we've seen rows in front of these companies. Also, those owned by the pump, therefore, were seen to have been thrown in such a way that there was no control and you had no answer. Yes, we started with 420 thousand unemployed, we ended up with 285 thousand 31.12.2015, 135 thousand less, you started with 285,000, before the crown you had 143 thousand, so net 142 thousand, so the same thing we did in four years, so when you criticized, look at a little bit of numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203903	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203904	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I come from an island where we have a hotel house that owns Valamar, and has a daughter who owns it, named Imperial and your way, and these companies should not receive any compensation even though they are locked up, so today there is no activity, no hotel is open, no camp is open. Last year at this time of the 12.5th, everything was open, working in it 200 people. If you think and represent the the thesis that these people should have lost any help or that they should have received nothing from the state, you continue to do so, as well as in the campaign or any future time. I think the state should have done it and done it the best possible way. How the question of evaluating everything that happened in the fast run will be addressed, let's say the procedure to reach the time because a month is not too much time to solve everything, by the more we were halfway through the month when all these different measures and behaviors started, I know that it was responding to help all of us. Is it fair to everyone, I think it was probably the ones who They made something that they shouldn't have, but there's a state to determine that in later times. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203905	The next replica is the respected representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203906	Dear colleague Boris, you said you didn't understand why we're acting like this. At first, we all boasted, and now he's attacking himself and he's looking for guilt. We'll remember, we've heard it countless times, they've waved at the savior of the olive branches, they've worshipped him, they've yelled at him in a few days. But here is the fact, the fact that no one can deny, the fact that all those who have requested, received, the fact is that the businessmen in that part of which the work is banned, not only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but from all the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have received numerous benefits and have all been one goal and I think that this is a legitimate goal and that it deserves all praise. Save the job, save the economy, because that's the only model we can think about getting out of this situation. There is every praise to the government for its determination, as well as to the Staff, and all that is going on in the future. It will show how correct these measures were. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203907	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203908	Thank you very much. I, my colleagues or the staff, understand when they said they were the same people as at the beginning, and today after 77 days. Some understood that at the beginning, but after 77 days, unfortunately they didn't and tried to insult them, which I disagree with, but it's obviously their right, which was before, we've been through a different time and we remember them all. We also remember the migrant crisis and the crisis headquarters established by the SDP government to address the activities of the entry of immigrants into the Republic of Croatia. Who was in charge of this Command? Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Who were the members? All in a row, deputy ministers from the new ministries. But we hear today that it wasn't a political body at the time that this crisis headquarters was just today a political body, it was probably all HDZ's, and unfortunately there are no SDPs here anymore. I mean, it's so below the level of anything, they've dealt with one problem, this Staff is dealing with another problem and there's a law that solved them in terms of who should be a member and who can join it. But I'm saying, everyone has a chance to show up next time what he's been doing. and how he acted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203909	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203910	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I agree with you, fellow Boric, that we must watch what we say in HS and not empower those people who are in the Staff today. The fact is that before this crisis we had a balanced budget, that should be said, with a surplus budget. Unfortunately, this situation that has now happened has wiped it out, which is why this rebalancing. You may also need to see how and how certain problems are being fought or solved, including the economic problems of the country in our environment. Today, we compare a little with those we used to be together with, but we should also see that perhaps more with those who are members of the EU. Even EU members do not have the same access to the coronary virus, many have made mistakes. For example, one Switzerland experienced a disaster, especially some cantons that were toward Italy. The Sweden you now mention, so didn't we have yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the arrival of our people from Switzerland who were infected on the plane and after 3 years, a coronary virus appeared in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203911	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203912	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, but it just seems to us, and we tend to hurt everything we do well, so we've had it for the past 20 days, I say especially by the opposition when it started to question everything. So we're comparing ourselves with a Danish who, say, has ten thousand infected and over 500 dead, when they open schools we say and we want to open schools, we open schools now the kids won't go to school. That's the problem. Why? I spoke to the teachers at my field school yesterday. Not one child of them 40 and something didn't come to school, 77 days on the island we didn't have any infected. The night before, all the kids were playing at the playground. I ask why, she says, I don't want to be the one who wants to determine which nine children they need to go to school or don't need to go to school, as if there's no other options or divisions in any group, etc. And the conversation, the easiest thing to say is okay, but then let's not compare ourselves to anyone. Then let's say that we did something ourselves or that we're better, but let's not keep saying that we're worse if we see if everything else indicates that I think we're much better than many.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203913	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203914	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Treasury, colleagues and colleagues, so until the announcement of the pandemic itself and by the World Health Organization that took place in the 3rd month, more precisely on 11 March 2020, the Republic of Croatia had a balanced budget, had stable public finances, had a reduction in public debt, lower unemployment, higher employment and a budget surplus. In the very health crisis we entered from one significant surplus position in the current and capital account other words of a larger export than imports or a larger inflow of capital than the outflows of the capital itself, and we actually used that surplus during these past years to deleverage to the abroad or to strengthen the foreign reserves themselves. The government was following global events, and knowing that we had already 25.2. had the first case of coronary infection with the virus actually also brought that 63-measure package where it was actually intended to intervene or disperse wherever at that point and what the government and headquarters had concluded as such. This package has been very helpful to the economy, and only to prevent the dismissal of workers. Imagine if there had been a discharge of workers or if the government hadn't intervened, we would have at the Bureau instead of what I know today, 152,000 unemployed, maybe 250 or 300,000 unemployed. At that moment there would actually be a social depression, and we, you on the street today in your places, we can't feel that depression in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the results in the economy that are actually conditioned by this coronary virus. The state has done everything primarily to save people's lives, to preserve the health of its citizens aware that after the pandemic of this virus that cannot be contained in such a way, at least reduce the number of infected persons and that the health system as such does not come into question. This is why this budget rebalancing is here today in the Croatian Parliament, from which it is clearly visible, and these are the figures that are not being hidden, in fact, the revenues that fell by nearly 23 billion kuna, but the government is sending a clear message to both the economy and the socially endangered groups and individuals, cultural workers, farmers, pensioners, in fact to everyone. And when you look at certain items that are related to this budget rebalancing, or those who, for example, have lost it, and these are all those who had to cut their items on the revenue side of the budget are certain ministries that are exclusively related to workers, jobs, subsidies in agriculture and health only. As far as expenditure is concerned, so they stayed at the same level precisely because of the reason and that is the clearest, biggest message from the Croatian government. Some colleagues today have said that the EU has not been involved in this, but it should be said that these EU-related funds are, in fact, made possible by a more flexible approach to be allocated. What I'm trying to say here right now, and there's been talk about it, and some MPs have been talking about it, and I've been getting some kind of, uh, some messages from some of the companies, and I'm going to mention them. So it's 1,200 of our companies that are related to domestic licenses or 800 international or those carriers that don't work in inter-urban or inter-linear traffic but are exclusively focused on tourism and they haven't had any income and have complained of, of course, banks that have been taking credit rates, or they've been getting notices or costs, and one lady told me, the government, the Croatian government, literally said, has done a lot for us entrepreneurs, but of that part we have to give to the banks. So we have to give some of the money to the banks which he doesn't think is good because, now that we're here on interest and expenses, they have absolutely no income. She begged me that the government of the Republic of Croatia intervened in that part, and the government really intervened, and I got it from her this morning, and they said they intervened, the banks lifted all our costs, and they said that as such we don't have to, we don't have to commandeer. So this is extremely valuable and commendable because the government has actually engaged in the best possible way in all segments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203915	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Klaric will be the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203916	You mentioned that so much depression, given the magnitude of the crisis and everything that is happening and compared to our environment. You also mentioned cutting items. Sometimes you have to pay to get more. So what's more is that every preserved workplace, what's more, that's what you're right now going on in the field right now, to keep under the control of the epidemic. And what will be more is what will allow the economy to continue to function normally as it does. We in my town when we were making a decision to release entirely from the communal fee or 50% of those production activities or all those who are a decision of the headquarters, we made a calculation, we lost in this month and a half 2 million and a half kuna, aware that this deficit would get us something much more in the coming months because all those we released now with relief measures continued to function normally, and that's the point So it's not just cutting items that will reduce income, it's what will increase it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203917	Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203918	Thank you very much. That's right, my colleague Klaric, actually after the government's measures were adopted, I needed all the county, all the municipalities and cities to act in the same way that you did. In fact, in such an act in the city of Bakru, you have actually shown that you care about the economy, that you care about jobs, aware that there is no sudden departure of such workers to the Employment Service, which would only then create a certain depression. Do not forget that Croatia is also a country, an broadcasting country and that in fact all the counties in this area should be very careful in this crown and should actually be sort of free of charge of the county precisely because we should welcome the first tourists at a very reasonable time. So, we all needed to be in the interest of getting more involved, far more than the national headquarters, that we would also hire ourselves in local places to keep an eye on such things so that we wouldn't have that happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203919	Thank you. The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203920	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Babic, you are, I understand that you are praising the government and that we are now going ahead of the elections and that you are all delighted with the actions of this government, I missed my colleague Boris for the past month and a half while he was locked up on the island of Rab because we have not listened to such discussions, we who have debated these months and a half obviously have not heard us, I would have preferred that you were here so that you could listen to us. So, we've all given the same solutions and offered proposals from the opposition that you didn't accept or accept afterwards, it doesn't matter, we'll talk about it for the next few days, then two months. So people will weigh but you're looking at your colleague Babic, don't overdo it. So, you said now that there was no measure of government, that a large part of the people would end up at the Bureau and that there would be general depression. Are people happy and not depressed, do they call HDZ those who had a little more pay, say 5, 6, 7000, and because of these measures, the government fell on the minimum? Do you get calls from people whose employers put them on the minimum, they get from the government 4,000 kuna and those 750 in their pocket? So, I'll talk about it in my individual debate but don't make too much noise. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203921	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203922	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, it is good to know how to turn things around in a good way and make it so populistly acceptable to the public. And who's happy who had a salary of 10, 12, 13,000 kunas to pay 3 or 4000 kuna? Nobody's happy. What you're alluding is that the government produced this virus. The government didn't produce the virus, so she's lucky it happened. The government has only acted in the best possible way at the moment. The measures you were taking were too late, they were not acceptable, they were quite populist, so it was necessary to find that money, it was not found and you did not explain it in the best possible way to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203923	Thank you, colleague Djujic. You've caused a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been injured... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203924	Yeah, yeah, I did, uh... Art. In 238, therefore, my colleague Babic insults me when he says that I am alluding to the fact that she produced the virus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, it's not either I'm alluding or I think you're happy about it, maybe you're lucky that the virus showed up because everything that's wrong in Croatia, you say it's the virus. Maybe it's the virus that didn't, say, your ministers couldn't fill the property cards, so 15 of them left this government, it's the virus, no one's guilty. So if anyone's happy about the virus in this country, it's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203925	Okay. Comrade Djujic, of course, you know it wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if it was, then you've done it now, exactly the same. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm still tolerated, I'm probably going to take time, I'm going to become less tolerated. So let’s not use it instead of replicas. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203926	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, here you heard fellow Djujic, he says I was locked up, I watched him on TV, he and his discussions, which were all in order when the measures were taken to increase the budget spending item by about 10 billion kuna, I was surprised that they had no measures for pets, and that was the only thing that was missing so that they would get some compensation. But today we're listening again on behalf of the club of colleagues of Greeks and Lalovec who say you haven't cut anything on the expenditure side, it's SDP policy, I'm lying today, I'm fixing myself tomorrow, and these are the moments we need to go out on some kind of megday ahead of the voters, right? They say we talked to the Most, then this one says we didn't talk to the Most, then I talk to someone on behalf of the Most every day. They've increased the budget expenditure rate by 10 billion and today they're asking why it hasn't been cut yet. They'll probably sort of do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203927	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203928	Thank you very much. Most of the replica was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203929	And I'm sorry, just a little while, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms has, I haven't seen, raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203930	Dear colleagues and colleagues, an officer has been injured. 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Future Honorable Representative, Boris, did not replicate the representative who spoke but, above all, replicated fellow Djujic and then defied himself and you missed him by warning him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203931	Well, of course it's not because if I were to react to it, then I'm sure everyone would have a warning very soon. All right, here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203932	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It's true, fellow Boric, you have partly referred to your colleague, Djujic, but rightly so. His escapades, which were through individual debates, partly cheered us up here in HS. But I don't want to believe what my colleague Djujic said, but even now what you're saying, I don't want to believe that the government had any space to help the economy more, and to developmental social groups. So, according to financial opportunities and budgetary opportunities, the government has given its maximum because of the absence of certain social disturbances, especially those economic tectonic disorders. For 30 or 40 days we were witnesses, it wasn't easy to endure, but the fact is that we didn't get depressed, it's extremely important for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203933	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I'm about to start with may not seem to be related to today's subject at first sight, but it's very much so. And I will begin by congratulating all the nurses in the Republic of Croatia on Sisterhood Day and reminding them that last year, during the summer, nurses fought for their material status, but also for the status of other healthcare professionals, especially doctors, since the doctor is not representative of the medical union and could not participate in collective negotiations. And those rights that the nurses had won less than a year ago are reduced by this rebalancing that we are talking about today because if you look at the rebalancing amount relating to receiving all public sector employees, and that means that the reduction and receipts of those we have been beating for the last two months are on the front line of defense, nurses, doctors, technicians, firefighters, cops, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that this is wrong, not only because we are hitting on the material status of those who have suffered a tremendous burden in this crisis but also because we are jeopardising the speed and possibility of recovery of public finances. The Institute of Public Finance, about a month and a half ago, made and published an analysis that clearly shows that the reduction of wages in the public sector, in fact, has a negative impact on the budget in the short and medium term and in the long term. So in short, we cut the branch we're sitting on. I know you're gonna vote this, but it's still my duty to warn you. The other problem is that many colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me have pointed to the question of support. We have spoken, we have warned, yes, we have spoken, and we have warned both in the assembly and outside it, although it was about the measure that the Government has brought and which has not been appointed by the Parliament that there are no criteria, that money is divided by hand and hat and by those who need it and those who do not need it. And today, colleagues and colleagues, we found out where that money came from. In particular, nearly half a billion kuna has been taken from a fund designed to help employ people with disabilities. For the help of the disabled, for those who suffer in every crisis, and for this one, the hardest to suffer, are the hardest to suffer because they will surely get no job without such help and support. But from the fund that all employers in the Republic of Croatia have over 20 employees, we seized the fund to share without criteria those who pay dividends. And Mr. Aladrdovic can complain today that it was bad and can say that this money will return, but given the way the government acted, unfortunately there is no legal basis for it. And why is that? Because the criteria were prescribed in such a way that they were fulfilled by those who did not need the money. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about the need to react quickly in the crisis and that sometimes it takes away mistakes, but this wasn't a mistake, this was a disaster. A disaster decision that has resulted in catastrophic consequences, and the money for it is on the account that was intended for the most needed in the Republic of Croatia. I won't raise my hand for it, and I can't. And let me just end up with a brief review of the City of Zagreb, despite not living here I have a lot of friends living in those parts of the City of Zagreb who are particularly affected by the earthquake. And almost every day, one of them asked me what would happen to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. And I can't answer that question, probably not you who sit here and look at me, what in... And if you look at this budget rebalance, you'll see that the money for that kind of renovation is not foreseen. Smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203935	Thank you very much. We have replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203936	Thank you very much. You said at the beginning of your debate that perhaps at first sight your debate would have nothing to do with today's topic, but it certainly had something to do with it because do not follow these HDZ people, their discussions today have nothing to do with today's topic, but they are in the campaign. Here's my colleague, Boric, hasn't been here in months, and now he's making up for that part, so I guess he's talking about all the topics we've been talking about for the past month. And these five, six days we have to talk about everything. We need to talk about the reconstruction of Zagreb, we need to talk about 15 ministers who left this government, about property cards, about the Most coalition partner HDZ who brought them to power twice, all of this is a topic. We're in the election now, and it's all about this budget rebalance because he's pre-election, because he's like this, because he's pre-election, and that's why there's no spending-side drop, because we're probably going to have one more rebalancing, some new government, and we have to talk about it, and I'm sick of this situation, so we're not happy, so we're going to be 2 months from now. Being in power, we'll have to pay back your debts and what you've already destroyed three times, so we're not happy about it, don't tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203937	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203938	The Honorable Vice President Reiner is today benevolent, so perhaps I shouldn't have been introduced but used to some stricter criteria, yet I wanted to fence in advance so I wouldn't be warned that I wasn't holding the subject but a joke aside. Yes, this budget is pre-election. Well, it's pre-election that everything that's been going on in Croatia in the last few weeks, pre-election is the press of the headquarters, it's pre-election to pass a Voluntary Health Insurance Act where we claimed that the censorship is rising for some 200,000 Croatian citizens, although in reality it's 12 to 15 000. Pre-election is what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia does, it is pre-election what the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia does. It's all pre-election and what's best of all, and it's legitimate to be pre-election but it's not legitimate to lie about it and that's the biggest problem. They pretend this has some kind of epidemic or some kind of background, but it's actually pre-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203939	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203940	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am glad that you mentioned this and indeed used the right words "abstained" on the portal in Index, in which all employers who do not meet the quota are paying. The lawyer says nothing has been notified or questioned about the fund, thus ruining or preventing it, reducing the possibility of hiring the most vulnerable groups of this society. It's not good and if it wasn't an accident, it shows the fact that the Index portal that the law was amended last month, it's already past the month for such a transaction to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203941	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203942	A respected colleague, right, and that's the problem. All the crises we've been going through have taught us one thing. In them, the first and most people who suffer the most, the migrants suffer, are many Croatian citizens who have gone to Germany, Ireland and so on. They felt because the migrants were the first to start losing their jobs, the minority groups died, the disabled, the disabled. But that the government can stand and carry it in this way and directly grab the fund that is intended, in which it is paid exclusively for the purpose of helping those who are in an extremely difficult life situation, who need help, and I didn't expect it, and I have to admit that I'm surprised by the amount that needs to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203943	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Malacans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is only partly an insight into the financial situation that hit Croatia at the time of this crisis, both central and local finances. This crown crisis in Croatia has invented a lot of hot water, and one of these revolutionary discoveries is that Croatia needs reforms of local self-government and territorial reconstruction. The media, politics, are telling the public that local self-government in this crisis has not acted responsibly, how it has been handled under-disciplined, and that it is, in fact, the worst link in the pandemic fight system. So because the local self-government has so responded, we need a reform of local self-government. The conclusion, however, is true, but the premise that led to this conclusion is entirely to blame. One of the logical arguments offered to us for territorial reconstruction is that, at a time when they were still in force of the e-pass, when communication within local self-government units was limited, the media talked about how there are municipalities and cities that don't even have mail, have no ATMs, have no kindergarten, don't actually have enough residents. So is it local self-government's fault that the Croatian government, that the Croatian post office was rationalized and that they abolished businesses throughout a series of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia? Is that the responsibility of local self-government? One of the following arguments they offer and that tells us about how bad the local state is in this crisis is that the local state simply has no financial capacity to deal with this crisis, that's absolutely correct, but who's responsible for it? This Government, or the Law on the financing of local self-government units, is responsible for focusing exclusively on income tax. So even then, it means that the capacities of the sub-disciplined local self-government as far as finance and administration are concerned, have suffered a huge burden of this crisis because almost 30% of all these gifts we've given to the economy, went to the back of the local self-government. The local self-government is also the first to start layoffs, and it is the local self-government that first began to forgive local taxes or communal fees, communal contributions and all that, therefore, filled its budgets. When it comes to the effectiveness of local self-government, then from all of this is visible and the next is that territorial reconstruction is important, it may be necessary but it is not the most important. The most important thing for the functioning of local self-government units is the way of funding, and right now it is actually showing that the way to finance local self-government is bad, that it is insufficient and that it does not give sufficient capacity to local self-governments to deal with, to deal with these crises. Although, colleagues and colleagues had it not been for the 100th and 100th community of civil protection, there were not 100ths and 100ths of volunteer firefighters, if there were not 100 members of civil protection, the measures proposed and ordered by the National Civil Protection Headquarters would not have been carried out so successfully that they were not implemented locally. It was all on the back of the local community, municipalities and cities again. Not a single kuna still based on the Fire Department is paid to firemen, voluntary firefighters for their expenses during this crisis. But to conclude in the end and these five minutes, that we really need the reform of local self-government, but in this way ad hoc solutions it will actually lead to a completely wrong and even worse situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203945	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203946	Thank you very much. Col. Mateljan, you have well warned that through these measures, and through rebalancing in many ways, it was going to reduce the incomes of local and regional self-government units and not to see models and ways to compensate, and most of these municipalities, cities and counties went with their own measures, support to the economy and among the first to react. Obviously, they will not be able to monitor this in the future unless a model of funding units of local self-government is found, and thank you very much to all volunteer firefighters, because without them many local self-government units could not carry out either the protection of the property of citizens or many other humanitarian projects. And we should also commend the firemen Orubica and Davor who put out the fire last night at the dump site of Bacanska, where there was another fire because of the lack of concern of the local chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203947	Your Honor, Mr. Mathelan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203948	Thank you very much. Yes, a colleague of nearly 70% of all local self-government's original incomes is being taxed on income. With no income tax, we lose 70% of our income. The projects that we are doing, which we must bring to an end, are primarily EU funds projects under measure 7, in measure 6, in this way beheaded financially very, very difficult to bring to an end, and I wonder how we will finance these projects that are the corrections that the authorities will impose on us, I am simply afraid of how local self-government will survive this year. If the government's goal is that local self-government dies on its own then this is a good goal and then this virus will destroy us all together and then these reforms, that reform won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203949	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers, this is what I'm going to begin my debate in a way that I'm surprised that this rebalancing went now in the last week of practically sitting this way, but it's clear and it should be made clear that this is one pre-election rebalancing and unfortunately this is not the last rebalancing this year. None of us are happy that he's coming, but this is evident that when we look at the structure of this rebalancing, so that there's no fall on the expense side of the serious, that government forecasts are what they are in relation to the whole environment, I would even like to say that I have to do it, but this is the fact that this is one pre-election budget and that we need to talk about it here right now. But here I am encouraged to change the dynamics of the debate because I was encouraged to do so by my HDZ colleagues who, in fact, today, especially my colleague, Boris, my colleague Babic, are discussing me in a way that praises my mouth, this one, but it is unfortunate that they remain in that, not following Prime Minister Plenkovic, who says new normal, they stayed in that old fashion because they were gone for a month and a half, so they were set up, their chip to the one before this corona crisis. And we've entered this whole crown crisis into a new, new model of functioning, so new normal, and in a month, two of us are going to enter a fully rebooted, rebooted model of governance. So, what's this about? We have all the time as an opposition to the full mouth of the Government on community, on calling for consensus, on all of us to be together, propose certain measures, offer solutions, offer ourselves to include ourselves in the interests of all citizens solving these problems together, but what we warned about a month and a half ago today is proving to be true. So that's when we said that the HDZ is essentially this crisis, it's like it's only about HDZ and who's the issue of just the ruling coalition and who's not concerned with all the other citizens who aren't HDZ's. Let me remind you that on another package of measures, Prime Minister Plenkovic presented only to coalition partners and the second day brought him here to the assembly instead of presenting it to all parliamentary parties, that we were supplementing ourselves, that we were all giving some sort of solution in the interest of Croatian citizens, no, you're acting unilaterally all the time. On the other hand, we're seeing with this headquarters today, and here it is trying to impute us that we want to degrade this headquarters. You say here they were the same people before, they're the same today. They did, they used to be, they're the same today, they're just saying one thing today, and yesterday they were saying another thing. So, yesterday whoever was breaking self-insulation was a bioterrorist who took a rifle and went into a shopping mall and shot people, and today it's a person who's not infected, who's not dangerous just here is a little bit at greater risk because he might have been with someone else in touch. So this is an indicator of why the devastating political staffing of HDZ is doing. And this is the time when we have to remind the citizens of that, we have to file accounts. So he can't die somewhere 20 people where he's headed by a political key and to say guilty is a virus, nobody's guilty, alive, alive, alive, who's guilty of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203951	And yet it has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203952	So there is, there is, there is, look, so we're afraid in this rebalancing isn't, say, compensation for people who are traumatized. Who's going to pay for these people who buried the wrong woman? They can sue the state, they can sue the hospital, so it has something to do with academics, so in this rebalancing these things were supposed to be envisaged, I don't see them, which is why I'm appealing to it. As for the measures, the government reacted quickly, the first package wasn't, it wasn't so perfect, and by the densest of entrepreneurs, and after their intervention came the second package and ok. I personally have no major objections to that part, but what I want to say. That didn't save jobs, unfortunately, as HDZ colleagues say. It was an artificial breathing to a drowning patient, now that patient, and that patient is a Croatian economy, is currently on the respirator, and if he survives, we'll see. In the interest of all of us, it would be good to survive, unfortunately we don't know what the season will be, or if all these economic operators will survive. Now, I'm already seeing after these first five, six days of some kind of return to the economy in normal, and we see that the revenues have fallen terribly, and the question is, how is this going to end together, and then eventually we're going to see if these measures have had an effect or haven't. Unfortunately, here's my time, it's a little bit of that five minutes to talk about it all, but this Well, yes, I'll respond to the replicas, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, but you will now be able to respond to colleague Leakovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203953	Dear representative Leakovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You warned your colleague, Djujic, that we are being imputed to the demeaning of the professional work of the civil protection headquarters, that is absolutely not true. What is actually happening is that this professional part of the work of the headquarters has been kind of overshadowed in the last few weeks as we have already warned and as visible from the daily presses by a political action of the headquarters, so sometimes it seems to me that experts and experts at headquarters actually degrade our common sense. However, what I am particularly concerned about is today's situation when Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozinovic in fact prevented Mr. Capak from answering the question asked by journalists, so I wonder whether Mr. Bozinović, in fact, is being demeaning, for example, the professional work of headquarters and the expertise of Mr. Capak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203955	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203956	Well surely fellow Leakovic, belittles, Mr Bozinović was what patriotic this was today you can speak, you can't, journalists ask one member of the headquarters he says I'll answer that question, it's not a topic. So yesterday, Mr. Capak said we'd go to the polls with, uh, self-insulating people with a mask and that's normal and that's okay. And that's contradictory of what they said a month ago, that's the problem, that's what we're warning you about. And then today, when the HDZ doesn't like Bozinovic there, it prohibits them from speaking and prohibits them from speaking. Look, that's the problem, Mr. Capak is a member of the HDZ, so it's not the devil that in this country all experts are in HDZ alone, that there are no other experts, I'm not saying that they have to be from the SDP or any other party, let them be impartial, I believe there are. But the problem is, let's say, home in Split, home in Koprivnica, the problem is when they're on that political, Mr. Capak is there because he's politically placed on his post, that should be clearly said, the Emperor is naked, we go to the elections and he is there not because he is the best in Croatia but because he is a member of the party. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203957	Now, now, you've exhausted my tolerance and more of it's not a replica, and I'm not going to tolerate any responses to the replicas. I'll make warnings. which has nothing to do with the subject. [[/Intruder: What?]] This next individual debate was supposed to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate, so he will be the next respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately in the beginning that this very important topic should be spoken of here without any restraints and pointed to all problems because the budget is a document that covers all aspects of the political action of the Croatian Government and when you see this document you must be concerned about what will happen at the end of this year. So, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that already in these technical changes that we have made possible by Minister Marić over the past few months, the crisis has been all sucked up, for example, from the economy and the promotion of certain business activities. So these programmes are almost all deleted from the budget for the past two months and you can see that they are not even returning to this budget rebalancing and then the question is how do we and what do we generally expect from the Croatian economy and how we are going to help the Croatian economy to get on its feet and make sure that at the end of the year there are no more than 400,000 unemployed and that people start working as soon as possible. Because I will tell you colleagues and colleagues the problem is, and it will be very soon for Minister Maric to see the consumption and rework of part of the Croatian economy that will not start working quickly, nor will these traffic be so generous, that it is likely that one large part of the hospitality will fail, and on the other hand, the country's income will be much less. And now that it can be done without talking about the unemployed who will further escalate when we remove this measure of 4,000 kuna, which, by the way, is no longer planned in the budget for the next 3 months, what was initially announced 3 + 3, unfortunately, is no longer in the budget. And what I have to say is that this is the budget and this whole story and announcements and talks of the Prime Minister who will discuss certain reforms, the savings in the area of salaries in the state sector, all together only in terms of elections. Because when you see that in 2 months he has failed to agree and eventually the unions do not agree, and they can understand why the unions do not agree, since they see that there is no coherent policy or any special policy, it is clear that Plenkovic wants to hold elections as soon as possible, try to renew the mandate and then do what he was supposed to do in the talks at the moment. Prepare the state for a few years of major crisis. His only problem is that he won't be able to do it, and we're going to lose months and months of time, and that crisis is going to be much longer than it's supposed to be. And no one here can argue with that. Neither can Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Perić nor Mr. Šuker from HDZ who are the only ones left here and not Minister Zdravko Maric who is aware of what kind of ambition Croatia is falling into, and primarily because of the subordination of Mr. Plenkovic's mandate and not only what he said and fellow Djujic, it is terrible to watch these people now every day explain something that is not explained to us. They started with why they can't do theatres and cinemas and they can hold Masses today, yesterday tells Mr. Capak that people who are in self-insulation can go free to vote and, of course, people no longer have absolutely no confidence in that company, and it would be best if they stop working. Here I suggest that these "missions" at 2 o'clock that we watch every day, or we watch, I haven't seen it in a month, to stop because they're starting to bother people. That would be best for those people themselves and HDZ. Here's a tip, give it to Plenkovic, if he's smart, he'll take it. On the other hand, it is a shame that the city of Zagreb is not even touched by this budget in this situation. 100 million kuna of 40 billion damage, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing, zero. I have proposed an amendment that would increase this to 400 million kuna to try to start to rebuild it, that the state start rebuilding its facilities, that KBC Zagreb start renewing its facilities, Traum, Petrova, so that schools can start working from the state level, given that Bandic's not even beaten, he has spent everything on his godmothers, and it is embarrassing that there is no Rehabilitation Act, that if he is in the Government, he will not be in the Parliament, and it is shameful that the Government of the Republic still has not stood behind the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Plenkovic's chair is important, the minister's chair but the citizens of the city of Zagreb are unfortunately not important for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203959	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203960	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you spoke in your debate you said that unfortunately despite the government's measures, after all this, one large part of the entrepreneurs will fail. That's unfortunately true and that's what the same attention should be about because now that we're going to open the economy doesn't mean that everything will come back as soon as two months ago, three, unfortunately not, we look at every day that people have less income, that one large part of the people haven't opened up at all because they have higher labour costs than to open up, but you know what they're not going to fail? It won't fail those entrepreneurs leaning on HDZ, e.g. who this company founded three, four months ago. from Istria, which by direct decision of Minister Horvat, received a million-dollar job to obtain masks. She was supposed to get 20 million in government, so when the public got up then under the table they agreed on the job without a public tender and then we see that the nephews of the influential HDZ from Osijek, you won't fail, let's say, and these are the same forms of incentives from this government that should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203961	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative. The answer, I'm sorry, is the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203962	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you are absolutely right, unfortunately HDZ is also using these situations to help with its interesting lobbyes, which are likely to finance the HDZ campaign tomorrow. So not only do they use the crown to put citizens and elections at risk when they think the most answers are selfish, but they use the crown not only them but also their Bandic flock in the city of Zagreb to check out some HDZ builders who raised chimneys at multiple prices, I got this information, to see why and how this situation is used and why there is no law. There is no law so that it can be hunted in a blurry, that citizens earn hundreds and millions of kunas on accidents, and that's the problem of colleagues and colleagues, and that's what we need to talk about here. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic to listen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203963	The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203964	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, here's my colleague Maras, I share your thinking here that we shouldn't have put things under the rug and all these structural problems that the Croatian economy has, unfortunately, now that we're just going to feel these consequences of this crisis that hit us and I agree with you in that part when you mentioned the city of Zagreb, the damage from the earthquakes that exist here but I'm going to fill you up a little bit, and I'm going to say that the great parts of the Krapina-Zagorje County are a special pillaric area, affected by the earthquake, and I also don't see any aid measures in this budget for people who unfortunately lost their fault over their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203965	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203966	There's no help, but unfortunately there's no law. So these HDZ, HNS and Bandic games have already made everyone sick. So now there's going to be some chemistry going on again, like the government law, so he's going to be released for debate, so ask God if he's going to get to Parliament, scary. If it hadn't been for two months. Enough to pass a legal solution? So when HDZ needs campaign money, the election law changes in a week, remember that, Mr. Rainer? Remember when it was raised to enable HDZ Yeah, that's the theme for two months. There is no law on Zagreb and when HDZ needed money for the European elections campaign [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Maras, this is not a topic, we are talking about budget rebalancing.]] Why are you guys after me right now? [[/Intruder Reiner: I am giving you a reminder based on art. 239, because you're not talking about the subject, please talk about the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203967	Thank you very much, we have the next replica of Honored Representative Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203968	Here's colleague Maras, you'll now have a chance to say something and I hope you respond to this replica, thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think I know anything about the economy, colleague Maras, but I heard something about when the crisis is then to be spent, and especially that we need to invest in the state, so now we need strong state investments, and I don't think our generation is going to have this opportunity to make one simple and structurally different view of whether it's state, economy and state finances, and that's this opportunity of double crisis. Is the crisis caused by Covida-19, and on the other hand the crisis which could be an exceptional opportunity for the recovery of the domestic construction sector, industry, etc., which is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and, if I remember correctly, I will not quote, exactly but something about it was said in his own time by one famous macro-economyist John Maynard Kaynes when he said that Let's say for the recovery of the building or industry, we really needed this kind of crisis... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203969	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203970	Well, I absolutely agree with you. So this would be a chance to have a normal situation in the City of Zagreb to help and move on to a certain investment cycle, together Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia and to go through the crisis more easily. They'd hire a branch of industry. The problem is, of course, what is always in Croatia in such a situation is that the dishonest people associated with, for example, HDZ or Milan Bandic's party who are then trying to make extra money, not to work fairly, to earn, but to earn 2-3 times as much as they should. I agree that we must also enter this crisis with additional state spending and public spending, should be very careful with certain pay regulation and in the public sector we should go to reforms, those who work should keep their status, those who do not work should be rerouted to the real sector. So I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President for another replica, no, well, okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203971	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Zekanovic, he is missing, and then the next one will lose the right to speak, of course, and the next individual debate will be representatives of Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the library finally opened on 4 May and a half, many were amazed at how many lines were created in front of the libraries, let's say one of them was a booklet in Zadar, and that's a lot of them, which asked many people how it happened? However, this did not surprise those who are engaged in culture, art, who follow cultural policy in isolation in which we spent a good part of this spring, we survived because of the book, because of the film, because of the poetry and because of the picture and there is no really negative answer to the question whether we need culture and art in crises, it is exhaling and asking, we need culture and art even more. However, in the proposal for amending and supplementing the budget, unfortunately I do not see that the HDZ government and its cultural administration are actually leading to this. So, with this budget rebalance, the budget of the Ministry of Culture is smaller if I have calculated correctly by about 8% and it actually at the end of the term of the HDZ Government seems to be approaching again the 2017 amounts instead of just following what I was saying earlier, and this is a strong public consumption and the need for state intervention of investment in culture and art are increasing by confirming that work in culture and art is important, necessary and valuable. The example for strong public investment in culture is today in some EU countries, as have inspired examples, even nearly 100 years ago. So, for those major depressions, the major economic crisis in the United States when it was defined there as a kind of new transaction and this wide procedure of Roosevelt's then administrations of culture and art made widely available creating conditions for the work of American artists, cultural workers on the one hand, and making culture and art available to the other so as to enable them to participate freely in various cultural and artistic programmes and, in fact, here, for almost 100 years, it does not differ from what is in some way the priority of cultural policy or cultural policies of the EU, which is participation, participation in culture, and in this way, the fight against social exclusion and economic inequality, intolerance and prejudice. Of course, the American administration could have said it, so look, it's not a priority, so change your violins or saxophones or ballet slippers, shovels, hooks or rubber boots and you do agricultural or construction. Fortunately, it wasn't like that, and I think it could be such an inspiration from history for us to learn about. I think that workers and workers in culture and artists and artists certainly expected Minister Obuljen Koržinek and Prime Minister Plenkovic to do both in work, not only in principle and gently as they only know how they trust and respect Croatian artists and their work. I can't even believe that the minister, or that Prime Minister Plenkovic, doesn't want in this crisis and the one that's just followed by Croatian artists filming, pretending to write, dance, produce, and in this way we actually have documented this difficult situation, this disaster that we found ourselves in, that in a few decades or just a few years, we can actually look back and say how we lived in Croatia and survived the crown and finally the earthquake and how we got away with it. I don't have much time today, I have submitted several amendments to the draft of this amending budget, but I would still like to warn that I don't think that I should have cut myself on the means of an operational programme of effective human potential i.e. Social inclusion funds, cultural participation. I do not think the first to hit should have been the means for innovative artistic practices because just such artistic practices can now be expressed in new circumstances when there are still no live performances but are also transmitted through some new digital internet platforms. I also warn again that it is indeed a generational project not only for citizens and citizens of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but also for all Croatia and all artists and artists. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be accepted by the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203973	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203974	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am only interested in the fact that you have beautifully elaborated on how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced funds for culture, are you aware that it has also reduced the cultural resources spent by local self-government units since it has reduced income tax resources, which are actually the source of funding for cultural events at municipal and urban levels. And now one inconsistency, so the Ministry of Issues CRO card or card and hints at attracting domestic tourists and I'm now asking a question, and what are these domestic tourists going to do on that sea, or are they going to sit in their apartment that if they manage to pay with that poor money they've secured on that CRO card system in the first place? Is he just gonna take a bath? Will they be allowed to bathe from communal directors who should separate bathers who are not far enough away from each other? Please explain to me who's going to make it up to everyone if we can't at the local level and in the state they don't actually want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203975	Thank you, esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203976	Yes, colleagues Ahmetović, and you have just warned about what we saw in the city of Zagreb already happened and the city of Zagreb has, in fact, the largest budget for culture, and there it happened that in April, in fact, the mayor of Zagreb, M. Bandić, has completely suspended the payment of funds that are related to public needs in culture, so that in the capital that has the most cultural institutions, and I am sure that both the most workers and workers in the sector, we can now see especially when it comes to independent culture, the consequences of such a destructive policy. And of course we can't expect that the tourist season when you talk about it, and you come from Krk, so it will be successful and that we will attract more tourists in favourable epidemiological conditions than otherwise if the sea and the sun can't offer them what is popularly called a cultural product. So culture in any case is not just a cost, culture represents investment and, of course, it is also a job for many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203977	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Panenic, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he's going to speak to the respected representative Marko Vesligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203978	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is every time we discuss the budget, when we are discussing budget rebalancing, this is the first time actually, at least now I think in this mandate that we are discussing budget rebalancing, in this half-year period we usually had rebalancing at the end of the year, but we are all aware that the circumstances are extraordinary, primarily because of the crown of the virus, but also the second thing of course why we are doing today's budget rebalancing are the upcoming elections. As some of the most important documents that this High House always brings, there are always some budgets, there's always some kind of winners and losers, what we can see first from this I'm going to say to the extraordinary budget is that this time the loser doesn't get too much at least when you scratch a little bit, yet there are, a colleague now mentioned a culture here, I'm going to add that a certain loser is also a sport because it gave up some infrastructure investments that were supposed to go through the State Order for Sports but I'm going to say even understandablely in this situation. Obviously, we are also changing a certain economic paradigm not only here in Croatia but also at EU level, and that deficit is obviously not as old as it was, so when we get into such a situation, then we return to certain postulates from the past that some economists sometimes like to call out of date, that they are anacrons but in these situations, we need them very much. Already a few colleagues have mentioned here on both sides of the assembly this one will say a problem that has local self-government, which by freeing the income tax really lost a lot of its assets and will not be able to compensate them through any unambiguous loans or through any other measures because indicators are as they are, but the situation on the ground where you are some kind of line I will say to the citizens, that citizens first address local self-government is anything but easy. Since there are some very vague instructions that come from the national headquarters, from HZJZ, here I will mention a concrete example of kindergartens that you have a situation that if one parent does not work, then can't have his children in kindergarten, that you have a situation so that those who haven't given children to this week in kindergarten can't now give it 2 i.e., then you have the demands of course parents which is why we now have to pay the kindergarten in this period when we don't give children or can't, we can't give it, of course that local children are expected and certain support to the economy, that we will have to help the citizens and we haven't helped them through these measures of government which I must stress that however the opposition here has supported them with certain proposals that were unfortunately not supported, then I would like to see a little bit more sensitivity for local self-government, for all of all the people who do so much in the civil work, but who do not make it in the same way of the civil service to the public service. I'm going to mention that here's something like this from a local point of view, with a regional little regret about this measure for mountain-mounted space that I see that they stayed at some level despite the fact that we've been looking for a certain increase here, but what makes me even more sad and more convinced that we need one change, that we need a different law on mountain-mountan space when you see one of those funds where for mountain-mounted areas you're giving us the means of setting up squares along the seashore itself, for some monuments in Slavonian plains, for editing office spaces in certain cities or municipalities, that's one bad direction in which we go instead of supporting agriculture, I'm pushing that people to live in those areas we've set up funds on an absolutely non-transparent criteria and political likeness. It's bad and we should stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203979	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203980	I'm interested in you talking about the budgets, the budget and the budget of your unit of local self-government in part. I am interested in what you will finance or co-finance kindergarten, which will be co-financed by the school superstandard, from which you will co-finance or finance scholarships to students, you have given up municipal fees, communal contributions and many other measures you have taken. What we've heard here is that the government hasn't given up the projects, but the government hasn't given up suspicious public procurement because there's money, but money that doesn't go where it's supposed to go. Here, explain to me, colleague, is it possible that no one in this country understands that the government has given up 60% of the income of local self-government units, not its own income, is it possible that these revenues are what our parents count on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203981	Thank you. Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203982	Thank you very much. So here, when we discussed measures here, then I said that these measures that the government represents which of its own that it should nevertheless present them as, at least partly as measures of local self-government, given how direct the losses are due to the primarily tax-relieving income were units of local self-government. Look, this year, we're gonna hold out, we've got this loan, and we're probably gonna be able to finance it. My only question is, then, what's waiting for us in 2021, people are used to a certain standard that I'm going to say to smaller environments much less than it is in big cities. However, if we are not able to provide adequate accommodation for children in kindergartens, unless we provide some education in elementary schools, arranged homes of health, I wonder how many people we will be left with in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203983	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203984	I thank the esteemed Vice President. So, Ministers, I want to talk about the proposed rebalancing through positive things, through those I consider negative and ultimately in the light of the elections being announced. So, what is positive, and I particularly welcome is the fact that there are still other means to continue building fast roads that is 160 million kuna for 5 km from Farkaševec towards Bjelovar and 325 million kuna 7.5 km from Križevci to, according to Koprivnica, where public procurement must be opened at the beginning of the 6th month. I also welcome the fact that this budget has found a solution to help the economy that has covered the salaries of employees in those entities who have suffered the economic effect in this crisis in 3rd, 4th and 5 months, and that is what I find positive. What I want to point out to you is that about this help to the economy that has been assessed about 8 billion kunas that you have actually managed to move it, to settle the redistribution within the budget itself, and then I don't like the way you've done it, we don't know how you've been communicating with other ministries, but you have a situation that, let's say, Croatian roads on their 3 billion kuna budget have reduced their budget by only 202 million kuna while, say, one very important segment, and that's the Central State Sport Office, which had really miserable 16 million kunas for the construction of sports infrastructure and 14 million for local sport and the project Croatia swims without that 30 million. So, did it really take one project that was already in the selection phase to which 400 clubs applied, 400 small sports communities to the full? I think you made a mistake here and you had to do a checkup so let's see if the roads on the islands were cut by 812 by just 10 million kuna. So you took all the sport instead of taking the roads to the islands instead of 10, 40 million kuna. Just to see what's important is how much we like to present ourselves through sports in Europe and the world, how much politics and politics are full of sports from national stadiums to I don't know what kind of investments, and you don't even have negotiated funding of such objects from the EU, and neither from the national budget and at this time the crowns when children are on computer classes, when they're too much for computers you've managed to leave them without those basic material conditions, and I believe you're aware that they're objects that were made in the '50s, same after the war, same when there was no money and when there was a crisis. What I consider to be the greatest minus of this proposed rebalancing is the fact that you do not project in it, nor do you foresee potential aid for the economy by 6th, 7th, 8th or 9th, 10th, 11th month when the possibility of returning the crown is mentioned, but also the embarrassing amount of 100 million kuna for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, so much for the reduction of income tax at the monthly level and here is shown one contempt for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. You see here there were broken chandeliers, chimneys in the government and the assembly, and it wasn't waiting, but it got rid of it right away, and all these people in the city center, in the area, waiting for their chance to rebuild, you gave them 100 million and you didn't tell them if this is a rebalancing for this year that you're going to give them anything more and we still see that there's not even in the procedure of the Law on the City of Zagreb. I believe that this is a budget called the fog with which no elections are allowed, that the key basis for future elections should be precisely the key objectives of the 2021 budget to see if there will be a reduction in expenditure or if you will continue to hold the expenditure, whether you will be in debt and whether you will again as in previous crises equalise all tax, single VAT rate or even raise VAT in order to settle expenditures or that you may be able to repay loans if you maintain this level of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203985	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203986	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lacković mentioned the sport, in fact you prepared it in context or compared it with the revenues of Croatian roads. So, actually with the reduction on Croatian roads where you said it was only almost 7%, these are the revenues that they count to have less on different grounds, so they did not deny anything.../incomprehensible/... as well as Croatian highways and other extra- budget users will have slightly less income on a different basis. And as for sports, I've repeatedly stressed here that we should use this now to change things structurally. It's not just about infrastructure, the thing and the cost of keeping it, it's about how they finance sports that primarily run units of local self-government, and we have to turn to people, to children, and put it as a basis for funding each sport. Working with children and how many children are involved in sports, not how the senior team works or whether someone.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203987	Thank you. Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203988	So, thanks for the replica, I agree with you that the question of sports and sports infrastructure is very important. The fact that they had a slightly reduced income was not a reason not to complete the competition, a project that was called upon to register 400 small clubs that wanted to paint their locker rooms, which wanted to buy aluminum goals so that no one would get hurt, who wanted to improve their capacities, people invested in the funds they hoped for something and now came the crown and said no more. So that's how we can really see how long then the redistribution space is going to be, so we've spent, if we took that, then we've taken the last funds that we can redistribute. So I'm asking the question, well, where are we going to keep 147 million kunas of expenditure, we're going to re-indebt, and if we're going to borrow that revenue if we don't raise taxes, if we don't go over to the real sector, what are we going to pay back from?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203989	The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203990	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, I'm very glad that you mentioned sports, since I also said in my debate that it's very strange that it's not in this draft budget and that it actually gave up some of the investments for sports that are extremely important in small areas, you have to realize that there's a playground in the smaller environment that means a lot more than it does in some big city center. I also think it's an opportunity for one reboot to us in this area, and we're not about infrastructure, but also about one expert staff that I think we should have at all levels. So this is not a good one and it's not one nice message that's being sent primarily to young people they're the biggest users of these kind of sports fields, sports content team more than that if we look at the government a little bit of these infrastructure other projects, they haven't given up much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203991	Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203992	So the message that was sent is clear, so we took the most sensitive ones and then what can we expect in the budget proposal for 2021. It is reportedly needed by the new majority, the new government should bring, and the government should, on the basis of the number of patients in Brač, so that is the issue of Brač. So, we can't go with the local themes and the cores of the virus, into an election cycle where citizens should know whether the real sector is going to pay back the cost of this crisis, what is going to happen to the economies that haven't fired for three months now, now they're going to fire, how many people are going to be, what are the projects and projections, where are you going to be in debt and how you're going to approach a serious problem? These are election questions, not questions, whether we are defending ourselves from the crown or not, and what relationship we are with Sweden or Denmark. This is a key question, so who will bear the burden of the crisis? And that's the main issue of future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203993	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203994	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm just going to take a quick look at the extra budget users, namely when we move HZO where we took them and secured a special loan of 2 billion kuna, and we know that we freed people from paying contributions then we get some balance of 400 million kuna for all the others less. Taking into account that Croatian waters plan to cut revenue of 900 million kuna, they also cut expenditures by 235 with something that needed 140 million kunas have gone to 500 almost 530 million kunas of loss. And then there's more or less of it left around here somewhere. Let's just say HAC plans to cut the income of 770 million, and parallelly means 1 in 2 or 50 lips per kuna goes and cut the expenditure, so even less than 320 million, which goes directly to the loss planned by 450 million kuna. And now I'm wondering that 320 million kuna that's going to cut costs, that's most likely non-preservation because everything else that way has to work. You've got people working on a checkout house, either 100 or 10,000 vehicles, fewer of which, of course, may not have been so much, but some base cost remains. And then we come up with that question that we need investment, that we need that stopper, that we need it not to stop and not to maintain it, don't stop and hire subcontractors because they certainly don't do it on their own, but they also have certain competitions that they're contracting to get jobs right now and to finance it from exactly what we've made possible, new borrowings. And that's something that's actually done the opposite of what the state has done. So the state remained at the level of the same expenditure so that it wouldn't generate indifference as well as to generate a certain offer with both this and demand, here they out-of- budgeted themselves and maybe this was the same opportunity, so when we talk about HAC, that a new way of managing and new way of charging, what we've been saying all along, uncontactively and vignettes, etc., etc. Now it's an opportunity, maybe we're already late, but now maybe it was an opportunity to restructure a lot of things. And what I was going to say, which is a lot of times mentioned by the Earthquake Recovery Act, which is why I also submitted one amendment to better fix it, nomotechnically, nothing dramatic, so that the position that is now new to this rebalancing that is opening, which was a damage recovery, is actually to leave it the way it is, to be the position of rebuilding buildings and recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake, which remains 100 million to be used from that position for all the funding that will be covered by the special law that we have talked about today, by the World Bank loans, by using the Solidarity Fund so that we can and the redistribution of the law are already using the same position and having our share in financing and using these funds. So there is no confusion that this position is precisely the one that will be restored and used and paid for everything that is necessary. We can't talk by heart now until we have the law, but we can have a position, we can call it that, and I think it's just clear and loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203995	Thank you, we have two replicas, so you're too late. He is the first respected representative of Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203996	So, fellow question for you, do you think 100 million kunas are foreseen for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb due to the earthquake, is that serious money? If you think he's serious, then please explain how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203997	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203998	I can ask you the question, do you think of a family who has lost their incomes, that 10,000 kuna is serious money? Maybe not to you, it's a lot of serious money to them, or 20,000 kuna. One family to make a normal life possible, that's a huge amount of money. Is that money for all the damage we've suffered, so it's nothing, but when we look through one family, and these are the funds, I just said, so I went with the amendment, to leave the budget to be 10,000 kuna item on the budget, but the law to arrange that we have an item, that we can act immediately after the law is passed, and this 100 million is precisely for these families to allow them to get rid of the chimneys, to allow them how much they are so much that tomorrow when we go to co-finance the costs and designing those damaged buildings, we also have a budget item that we can tie up all the payments. So we always have to look through the prism of one man, and there are 1,000 kunas today very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u203999	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. ... You used a colleague of yours, Pernar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204000	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to pick up where I left off with the replica, so a few more facts about health care that are very important to me, and in this budget rebalancing, you probably haven't been able to deal with them enough. Therefore, after this crown of crisis, our health workers who have done a great job, we can all agree, waiting for a very difficult time because a return to regular activity will be a meeting with the biggest debt in the history of health care of the Republic of Croatia. Before the crisis, the total debt was more than 9 billion kuna, the liabilities of 4.3 billion, are now certainly closer to 5 than they are to 4, and given the increased work due to the never-long waiting lists that have been extended in the meantime, the health care is waiting for additional costs and if no concrete steps are taken by Mr. Minister, the health care will certainly be ahead of the collapse in the case of a new epidemic wave which, fortunately, has avoided us in this first wave, however. The direct costs of the health system caused by the current COVID epidemic 19 are now slightly more than 100 million kuna. So these are HZZ data, including costs of testing, hospital treatment and self-insulation disease. So this 2 months. It is an additional 100 million kuna cost of the health system. The new additional cost will come safely if I adopt a legitimate epidemiologist's proposal, that all who are going to go to surgery or search for hospital stay must be tested at COVID 19. According to HZZO data, there are about 700,000 hospitals in Croatia annually. So now add to that the cost of testing and all the additional diagnostic tests that all those who will come to the hospital and have to be COVID negative, so this cost has never been calculated anywhere, never existed before and will be an additional burden to our health system. So for the next eight months. We need to have increased work of the hospital system that has to compensate for everything that's been missed in this 2 months. and it's been missed, Mr. Minister, a lot. So, 40% less examinations were done, so HZZO says it's in this 2 months. a million 711 234 proceedings are carried out less. So we must be aware that this delay will certainly further increase mortality probably from malignancies if not some others. Here's an example of a pulse hospital, it has to make up for 13,000 hits. So the necessary material will be spent, healthcare professionals will work overtime not only in Pula during all of Croatia, and I hope that this will finally start to pay them. Therefore, these are all additional costs and at the same time the health budget is understandable, expected, due to the problem of the economy, is not being charged according to the plan, and it is expected to be more than 2 billion kunas less on the HZZO's income side and will not achieve the planned budget of 27.5 billion kuna, which means that this will further prevent the repayment of debt that is not calculated anywhere. In February, therefore, Minister Beros said that the total debt of health care had reached 9.4 billion kuna, out of which the debt of hospital health was 4.3 billion kuna. Hospitals were making 145 million kunas of new debt a month, for the next 8 months. That amount will be even bigger, just for these reasons that I listed. But none of it has any figures and no letters in this rebalancing, so please, since we or some other parliament will probably have a new rebalancing soon, to finally try to use this crisis, I will say that for the reboot of the health system. So that the health system starts working on different principles, that hospitals are financed differently and that we provide a financially sustainable health system. If you did not pay attention to the health system, it best shows the following example. The Parliament recently adopted amendments to the Law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which said that 200,000 new insurance companies will need an additional 160 million kuna in 2020, which would mean for the remaining 8 months, 93 million kuna, nowhere in the plan of income and expenditure of HZZO where the figures remain the same as before this law. So either it's a pre-election story or you forgot that you had to enter it into the HZZO fund those additional funds that the state would have to pay HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204001	We've got a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204002	Thank you. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I am pleased that you mentioned this question, so during the parliamentary debate, we warned that it was just a pre-election law, a voluntary health insurance law, in which the claims on 200,000 citizens and 160 or 170 000 kuna were put on the table. HSU then had a good bill that would cover, which would significantly increase censorships and probably cover most of the citizens but on a realistic basis and therefore would be sufficient. What was astounding in that debate was the minister or secretary of state here said that he had the oral promise of Minister Maric, beware of the oral promise that he would find the money, however, as you now see no money. It is an unserious preparation of the law, unserious behaviour towards the Croatian Parliament, towards Croatian citizens and, therefore, as we now see, there is no money and it was just a pre-election trick to convince people that their situation will be better and it is the poorest layer of Croatian citizens and pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204003	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204004	Thank you very much, yes, colleague Sagar, that unfortunately shows indifference. I even believe that Minister Maric was not even aware that the law was passed, that changes were made and that it should have been introduced but was needed by someone from the Ministry of Health to report it. Therefore, now to ignore this part of the problem not even for the part that they wanted to show through this pre-election story did not provide funds in the budget, which is only an additional debt that will have health care because the state does not now meet its obligations to the Ministry of Health, based on the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, where every year they pay about a billion kuna less than they should and equally, one other resort that also covers the needs of health care, the health needs of the protégé, the social resor, did not provide funds for increasing the salaries of nurses and the purchase of protective equipment in retirement homes which are particularly risky and should be further prepared for the next wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204005	The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204006	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for amending and supplementing the national budget for 2020 provides for a reduction of expenditure for police employees and for other expenditure on employees and a reduction of EUR 65 million. In a situation where these employees, police employees and, of course, healthcare professionals, along with civil protection and firemen, have exposed their health and life to defend and preserve the health and life of 4 million inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to break the consequences of its inability to maintain such stability of the Croatian economy. Until yesterday, the government boasted of an unprecedented budget surplus, misleading the public with incorrect projections of GDP growth because it was counting on elections in the fall and it was worth starting with an optimistic story to actually justify its successful mandate by autumn. But the corona came to the government as an order to justify everything she had deceived the public with that very crown. I remember, Minister of the Horvat Economy very knowingly in a live show, he manipulated that the requirements for wage reduction and expenditure in the public sector meant and the reduction of wages, and, behold, the miracles, the police, the fire department and health workers, and he asked rhetorically whether it meant that we should reduce their rights by putting ourselves in the role of the great protector of the rights most responsible for the defence of health and life in this corona crisis. As an economist, I have not heard a relevant talker who has advocated a reduction in the rights of healthcare, police and emergency services, but I have heard that the total mass of salaries generated in any agencies that are themselves or just that mass of mercenaries or subscribers I would say, the purpose. From manipulation to execution, according to the government's prescription to the execution of the existence of those whom Minister Horvat manipulatively singled out to differentiate political insinuators. But let's get back to the budget rebalance. With this rebalancing, the government proposes to reduce the expenditure on police employees of 65 million kuna, and this applies to the material rights of employees, jubilee awards, goddesses, gifts to children and regressions, and I could support that reduction and even if I didn't know how much the average salary of a police employee who is exactly the one from the beginning of my first line of defense, not only in this situation of the health crisis but every day, for 4500 kuna a month that policeman risks his life and his health, at the daily level suffers the threat of not only physical but also mental health even when there is no such sinister pandemic. Then when most of us don't suffer from anything, that cop's terrified that we wouldn't have to worry and earn a salary of $4,500. Any addition to that salary to it is a fire in which you will-not, people with that level of income are found every month and are now left without it. We all know Croatia here, there are chronic lack of police officers. And despite the lower criteria for hiring these cops, does anyone think it's normal to agree to this kind of crying, 4500 kuna, wearing a head in a bag every day? You call for the solidarity of the whole society, so not the solidarity of those who do not have but those who have or have too much. Those who don't have, have nothing to solidarity with. By reducing the material rights of police officers, the few police officers who still stand on the defender of the country's security regardless of the crown or without it will not stand for long. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia police officers are not needed but are some others, it is essential that an employee in the administration of a regional fire department financed from the state budget. It takes so much to be paid out of public funds by the university and there are essential employees but they are not police officers. An essential employee, ladies and gentlemen, is, say, the chief advisor to HERA. The basic gross salary of that advisor, listen, 26 500 and he is so essential that despite meeting the conditions for retirement, he will not retire yet but will continue to work at HERA. And there are a number of other essential employees who unfortunately collect their loyalty to one foreigner, the money of all taxpayers, the essence of this rebalancing which is nothing more than stroking our eyes to all of us, cutting off those who really work and leaving or deepening the syncure to those who have been squeaming us for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204007	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204008	Thank you very much. So, fellow Ahmetovic, you were talking about a completely reckless reduction in the salaries of police officers, and I have to rely on that because when we have all realized that the oldest in the case of the COVID 19 epidemic, nothing is done to protect themselves and that in this budget, funds are already being put in place to ensure better protection so that 1800 nurses working in retirement homes have insufficient protective equipment, one sister comes to 89 wards with mental impairment, employers are taking away their vacation days, homes are without computers, sister lists are being held manually and no funds in the ministry. Bedekovic is not expected to, however, avoids responsibility because the chamber has asked her for an urgent suspension in the payment of nurses' salaries, employed in nursing homes. So another example of how this government doesn't recognize the right priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204009	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204010	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I would just point out and add to what you said and the fact, I was hoping to find in the budget the increase in salaries to police officers when the material rights had already expired, but I didn't find them even though the officers were hoping for a 1% increase since 1 June, and they were hoping for an increase of 2% since 1 January 2021, we're talking about the ESS, and they were hoping for a 3% increase in the 3% of the 1st of September for the VSS and we understand each other, and that's nothing compared to the absolute amount of this percentage is nothing, given how small these wages are. However, no, they will be left without it, but even without what it means to them, this is the kind of patching up of their poor budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204011	The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, I am very pleased that you have actually mentioned how miserable this salary is in this case of a police officer or a police officer, so it is some 600 euros because in public space very often it is said that our public and state officials are etc. Prepaid, that there are too many of them, that they don't do their job well herl. And then where it goes to cut, it goes to cut first, so on these public needs let's say so. I think it is extremely important to point out constantly how important it is to maintain a certain level of wages and material rights in the public and state sectors, why? Because if we're going to strip down to the end of a really strong anti-corruption element, how important it is that judicial employees, that cops, cops, get paid well, it's certain that corruption has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204013	The answer of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204014	Thank you very much. counterpart Leakovic, yes, I agree, may need to reduce the amount of salaries in the public sector, but the amount of salaries that were made to the agencies only to be set up, to the state institutions that were founded only to form, the people who have from the secretary of the secretaries of the secretaries. These masses of wages are the ones to be cut and not the masses of wages or salaries of those who have the lowest wages and their safety, their health, their life most exposed to this country in order to preserve the lives of those and the health of those who do not care about the health of those who safeguard that health, if you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204015	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204016	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, you mentioned police officers and police officers, I join your warning there, and I would like to add to this situation where we see Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers in the Government, Maric and Minister of Labour, trying to force teachers, teachers, as well as to reduce their wages, given that as well as the lack of full work and the crisis had ruled and were not at the disposition and I know that teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers in schools are working now and more. Here today, two, three kids in class are in class, and then when they come home, they work with the other kids online. So it would be a great injustice to cut off those personnel that have been paid for years now that they've finally got certain rights, now they're using the crown to take it back, we can't let that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204017	Thank you. Dear representative, nothing. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204018	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, it is good that you have mentioned that it is unacceptable to reduce salaries and the rights of employees of the MUP or police because we have repeatedly debated and asked that they have higher salaries, that they have better equipment and that they have more rights and are not only a problem of wages but also material compensation for their other rights, for example, a large number of police officers from Slavonia are working in Dalmatia and with such a small salary they cannot afford to pay for either the apartment or the accommodation or the food, and many are therefore giving up and leaving the police, and it is unacceptable to reduce their wages when we talk about the need to invest in this system. And secondly, you were talking about agencies and that some should be abolished, so here, this government has abolished about 20 agencies under the parole of savings, the selection service has been abolished, the Croatian Agricultural Agency has been merged with the Ministry of Agriculture, we haven't seen these savings, and on the other hand I have information that these employees have also been paid an increase, so one is abolished, others are still paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204019	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204020	Thank you very much. A colleague, so I would like to demystify the amount of these material rights, these jubilee awards, these Christmases or similar let's say firefighting measures that people survive that month for which they actually did. So these are the miserable amounts with which the government will save absolutely nothing. What's the fact that these people consider themselves and call each other public arrests just because they wear an official uniform and no one thinks about how these official uniforms actually force them to be on the road, force them to be happy with such a small salary that they work on Sundays or nights that some fund makes hours thicker and some kind of salary such a decent profit they haven't been able to feed their children, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204021	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204022	Dear chairmans, they say the crisis has come, say we must all bear part of the burden and that we should all bear some kind of sacrifice. I know that many owners of space didn't charge, say, a full rent or the same thing with landlords. I know that certain duties have been reduced or suspended, but there is one category in society, one sacred cow that gives up nothing. These sacred cows are private banks that even the conditions of the moratorium continue to account for the loans of their debtors. Of course, it should be noted that certain groups do not even have the right to moratorium, such as those of tourists who travel to Plitvices from e.g. China, they have buses, they're banned from working, their tourists don't have, but the rates of lying come on the charge no matter what. And what happens in the end? Finally, we have a situation where debt is growing exponentially, that banks have actually profited most in this situation and, of course, they will be able to buy property and citizens and shares, etc., which has now dropped value due to all of this and the question is, who is actually the holder of government in the country if everyone has to give up and one category, banks have to give up nothing, the question is, are banks owners of Croatia or better said, real persons who have a position of power and power? My guess and the thesis is that they are, it's my thesis that they are above the state because as I said, what they are allowed to do, what they can do, nobody else can do, and nobody complains about it, did they see the media? The same media that crucify this government, the same media that crucifies all possible people and non-humans in this country, banks that don't want to give up interest, don't mention. Why? Why is it allowed to spit on Marić, on Šuker, on me, on Maras, Boric, Lackovic and every other person in this country, but there are no media spit banks even though they do what complete society normally does and what they shouldn't do in the normal state. Now I'll tell you why, because the banks are media owners, the same hand rules everyone. Someone's going to tell Mr. Pernar that some media isn't the owner of a bank, it's true that it isn't, but the owner of that media depends on these banks. I remember once there was a contribution to an act, we were in the field, a journalist told a private television station, Ivan, we can't tell which bank it was because we're in charge of them right now, so it would be awkward. The same thing with the state, the state raises billions of moons of credit with these same banks as embarrassing to talk against them, yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how banks are through lending and here you have Ninoslav Pavic, so-called. The EPH holding as much as they owed this man and indirectly controlled the contents of the Morning List, etc., because the Jutarnji List went against the banks, the question is would the banks say that, yes, Nino can take you and the 10th mortgage on them 9 of them on the building in Odranska. I'm trying to point out to you, dear citizens, and it's up to you to trust me or not to trust me. You can trust those journalists and editors and the media who claim to be free and independent, if they weren't bribed, if they weren't under the rule of the banks or the state or whoever, and you can trust me as well, who I'm saying that the media is generally, under great influence, dared to say, the crucial influence of both banks and states or that the vast majority of the media in Croatia is not independent and objective. So let's just remember the famous Hanžekovic Mason who was always ironing over me through the Jutarnji list, although now he is no longer alive but the Jutarnji List continues in the same direction as Mr. esteemed favorite of the people, whom the President calls a great humanist and philanthropist, where he left off. Well, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204023	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be respected representatives of Glasovac, not having it, losing his right and the next one being spoken by respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204024	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here at the end of this debate we are all aware that this proposal is a change and a complement to the budget of the rebalancing relationship, in a certain way the consequences of the crisis caused by COVID 19 and all those measures and financial effects that we have behind us and that this has to be reflected in the budget, is an emphasis of course on the preservation of health, on the care of all our citizens, and there is another great congratulation for all public health workers, in hospitals, in all other institutions that have made their contribution but also a great thank to the citizens who have been responsible and stayed at home so we have good results. What worries me and us at HSS is that this second measure, which is the preservation of jobs, has certain shortcomings, and we think, above all, and I've already spoken to 30 thousand people who have lost their jobs in the meantime. There was a proposal to find an emergency model and a way to help them, we don't see it here in the budget rebalancing and I said already in the replica of the minister, the problem of seasonal labour from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema which will surely remain jobless in the coming months, because tourism obviously won't be and the minister has promised to find some model for them too, but here, in this rebalancing is gone. What's visible here is that the real question is what to invest in, what industries to invest in and how to invest in tomorrow because, of course, it's important for us to have every job but we need to determine strategically towards those industries, those branches that will employ as many people as possible and where people will have a large and quality job and quality personal income to live on from it. It is not good that 500 million kuna for the public sector has not been provided, although it is signed, so it is a bad message and keeping jobs in Croatia especially if we want an educated workforce then it is not possible to reduce their rights and personal incomes for the people who are the bearers of that, that quality workforce and quality education staff tomorrow. In Europe, we are talking about a green plan, about green measures, Mr. Timmermans emphasizes that forestry and the diagonal industry should be a future priority, from this rebalancing, we do not see that something more significant is being supported by the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia which employs over 50,000 people and who first felt the crisis caused by the coronary virus because most of them are exporters and we are asking that in the coming measures certainly this branch of the wood industry more specifically which processes wood mass into quality furniture and other products. What's not good is that the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection lost this rebalance with 432 million kuna. And these are mainly the funds that needed our home construction operation to provide water supply, water treatment, wastewater purification, waste disposal, and this gives us a picture and a message that we will continue to have a problem with waste disposal as last night was in Davor municipality where the dump was set on fire and I have repeatedly written Minister Coric's response to what is being brought there, what amounts, in which way he is being taken care of, we see that he is inadequately taking care of it and that he has been fuelled and loaded for the environment there and for drinking water for 60,000 people there and we are looking for answers and we are looking for answers and we are looking for the responsibility both of the minister and the mayor of the municipality. Of course, in my debate on agriculture, which only 0.6% received more funding here, the minister boasts on the ministry's pages with an additional 120 million kuna for direct payments and with amended rules that up to 70% may be paid up in advance by November and the rest to 100% will be secured in the state budget. These 20% to 30% which should be secured in the state budget are not even in this rebalancing, were neither in the 2020 budget nor in the budgets 2 or 3 years ago. Our agriculture is thus damaged by over 2.5 billion and with the right of the Association of Agricultural Producers is looking for and the peasant alliance of the new Agricultural Development Fund if we want to produce food then we have to invest in the village and agriculture and it is unacceptable that we now have about 2500 pigs of the breeders that our producers cannot sell, that the florists are in failure because they cannot sell flowers, that the winemakers have not sold any buttocks of wine, and that the minister is not saying anything about it, and that we are not talking about agricultural land because in 4 years she has not even 50 ha put into office through a public tender and there is no interpretation of the ban on the sale of land to foreigners even though she promised that it was a done thing, so I ask the ministers., what do you do or just take pictures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204025	Thank you very much. Now we have final words on behalf of the club of representatives, first of all that MOST and independent lists on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204026	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who have an interest in following this, Minister. This rebalancing i.e. This corona crisis is repeating it for I don't know which time, nakeded all the bad policies in the Republic so when we look at this rebalancing, it's essentially showing again that we don't care about those who are most responsible not only for this crisis itself but who care about health, who care about our children in schools, but as a Parliament, we didn't have the strength to make one decision, that is. The government, as a representative of the Government, did not have to bring a key and first measure and this measure should have meant moratorium on loans and interest banks, so that this effect of this rebalancing on our citizens will have nothing but a negative effect, as colleagues had just before and listed, from agriculture, from Croatian police officers, from all of those, from medical staff, all those who should have felt better in this crisis, who had to as well as the entire Croatian people who had to from the banks i.e. you had to have the courage to propose as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance, have the courage to defend this Parliament, that the moratorium on loans and interest because we know that the banks are the most polluted in the Republic of Croatia, that the people have invested most in these banks without going in, they go back far back into recapitalisation, but we know that the ministers, the banks have a profit of 4 billion kuna per year only on fees and fees that we have, 400 and more at these small amounts, but there is a huge amount of money. So this rebalancing isn't essentially revealing everything, not just about the crisis, but what's crucial for our citizens is that in this crown the crisis is essentially about this, because it's visible after Mr. Capak's statement yesterday that we can only go to the elections that we're in isolation and that we should have tracked our cell phones that simply this impact of closing the economy, the closure means tourism that is literally going to be in big trouble, the small tenants in big problems, the big one, all of which is going to be at this moment in huge trouble that simply this rebalance isn't helping those who needed help. Local self-government is mentioned, yes, local self-government has huge counties. Countys are the main brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia and I argue that no rebalancing, not a single budget on it counts, and basically a large part of the decentralised funds of the ministry, goes through, goes essentially for health care, education in the county, and that money goes who knows where to go because it goes where it needs to go, then we would have well-developed health care today, mainly in rural areas, but we have less and less health services and people are leaving us. One of the key problems that has been mentioned is the World Bank report, which says that the most people who receive money from, who have a large share of GDP from foreign transfers that our people who have moved out, send to their families and family members, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has 20% of GDP, the colleague is funny but it is the fact that our citizens have been evicted and that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And at this point, the World Bank says that 20% will be reduced funds from these figures, however, as far as Croatia is concerned, we are in the most risky group because we have 18 billion kunas a year from those people we have emigrated to poor policies. I asked the minister here and I expect him to answer me what with these people who have lost their jobs in Ireland and how much he expects a lack of money from the credits at the level of the budget, the effects, he can't, of course, he said himself, but the effects will be devastating. And we don't think about those people that we moved out and who came back, I don't know if they have any rights or any measure of direction towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204027	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will finally speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204028	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister Maric, at the end of this debate, I would like once again to highlight some of the most important proposals in front of the party Let's change Croatia. The word rebalancing means establishing a new balance. The expenditures remain the same, the kuna is not reduced, the revenues have fallen dramatically and will unfortunately fall even more, to establish this new balance, it's a huge minus, here says 25 billion kuna, so you have to be in debt. Could you make savings or cut expenses on some things? Yes, it is. I said in the morning that in these four years you could have saved 15 billion kunas that you had refinanced all debts, the kuna debts of the state, you didn't. I asked the IRS for information, asked how many taxes you have not charged in Croatia. They've answered 28 billion kuna. Dear citizens, if only 50% of them had succeeded, insisted, they had charged 28 billion kuna, that is 14 billion kuna tax. Add these 15 I said savings, that's 29 billion kuna, so my people, we'd have extra money from what it takes from 4 billion. These are the people who run this Croatia, but they taught themselves one thing, it doesn't matter what the deficit is, but we know how to put you in good debt. So you don't care about such arguments. Next, Mr. Minister, at 7pm. Comes, comes the euro bond of a billion and 250 million dollars. You're already negotiating how you're gonna take a new loan in dollars. So come on, man, pay it off from the foreign reserve already. We have a net foreign reserve of 15.5 billion euros, which is one of the largest foreign exchange relations compared to GDP in the EU, so don't lend us the end of our money, we keep our dollars, euro outside at 0% or 0.1, and then boast when you put us in debt for 0.75%, that it's a historic success. Well, that's terrible. Pay it off from foreign exchange reserves, please listen to what I'm proposing, so have strength, that's our money, so it's not Austrian and German, it's Croatian citizens' money, you have it, do it, I ask you. Furthermore, the return of the money that the debt agencies received because they sought minimum wage for their workers, one of the most famous debt enforcement agencies, was founded in 2013 for 500 000 kuna and today has retained profits of more than 400 million kuna. Does he tell you what that information is? That they systematically robbed Croatian citizens. You're looking for a return to the state budget tomorrow. You're looking for a return from casinos, bookies and all those who have a fat profit in recent years. There must be social justice in this country. And in the end, don't get into the euro area anymore, into the euro, why are you kicking? Well, you see, the public debt is going to break through almost 90%, no country where I was, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, not to speak Denmark, Sweden, but not to their minds. So who are you trying to show that we're in good shape, that we can take over the euro? Well, the euro zone has never been in a bigger crisis since 2008 than it is now, and it's even more of a problem. Let's stop, let's be wise, let's wait. Why do you hate our kuna, first of all, those who run the CNB, why do you hate our Kuna? Well, my people, now you have your own currency and your own central bank, so it's a blessing, let's use it. Therefore, suspend payments to II. Retire the pension column and that 500 million each month to save the economy. Look, I don't have enough time, concrete suggestions. And nothing and listen to this, stop paying off 87 million kuna support subsidies to members of voluntary pension funds. Why are you stimulating them now? Well, they have money anyway, it's not mandatory. Now I could put another hundred million together here. Dear citizens, I will stand here, the elections are at the door, only professional and honest people can save these countries with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204029	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, the first item will be the Final Proposal for the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. Have a nice evening. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours And now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. The amendment complements the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022 are also submitted, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans for non-profit users for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 years for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, the Centre for restructuring and sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO, Croatian Highways, the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi, MP Karolina Leaković, SDP representative club, MP Mirela Ahmetović, Sabina Glasovac, Karolina Leaković, representative Željko Lacković, representative Gordan Maras, representative of Stjepan Curaj. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, and I would ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the amendments submitted. This is Assistant Minister of Finance, Honored Representative Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204032	The first amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras. ... It's not common, but here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204033	No, I'm interested in Mr. Vice President, is it possible, Mr. Bukarica, that this is one logical question, that I have the right to hear the answer, so is it possible that only Mr. Zrinasic, on behalf of all ministries, will be shown about the amendments? So it's not a practice, the state budget is usually attended by representatives of the ministries and not by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. So, I would ask you to make sure that this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the representatives of the ministries are not indicated for the proposed amendments. I think it would be correct if we had representatives of the ministries here, not representatives of one ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204034	This is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure because the government is manifested, so no individual ministers, deputy ministers etc., the government is manifested because the government is proposing a state budget and the government is pointing to this rather than individuals. So, of course, the government determines representatives or representatives, but the government is manifested because the government has tabled a proposal for amending and supplementing the budget. Here, let me explain when you don't know what it says in the Rules of Procedure. The first amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204035	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction is not accepted because the activities of the Croatian Parliament are managed by the administration, the expenditure group 323, expenditure on services are provided with funds for the settlement of known commitments and for the planned renewal of the work of the Croatian Parliament building due to the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204036	The applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204037	Thank you very much. I do not accept this argument here because these funds have already been reduced compared to what was planned at the beginning of the year and I think that the Croatian Parliament, as a follower of institutions that led the Republic of Croatia in difficult times when we defeated fascism in these areas, should provide a certain amount of money within its budget to be valued. We see that in the Croatian Parliament we also have the essence of the first president of ZAVNOH Vladimir Nazor, the famous and recognized Croatian poet and anti-fascist, and it is amazing that the Croatian Government ignores and ignores the facts of the Croatian Parliament and that it is precisely organisations that insist on promoting these values that do not help or finance their activities from the budget at all. It is something that is inadmissible to me, I think that the Croatian Parliament as an institution that should be there, perhaps most interested, given that it represents directly Croatian citizens elected through MPs elected in parliamentary elections must be placed and in some way protect the activities and work of the Union of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of Croatia, and that is, in my opinion, something that has not been the case so far, which we have not heard about and I am sorry because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing exactly the opposite and does not give them any support. On this side, I would like to point out once again and ask that this amendment be voted upon and that ultimately the representatives of the Croatian Parliament support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204038	Thank you. The next amendment of MP Gordan Maras, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204039	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state authorities and local, regional (regional) self-government, means of subsisting the costs for the implementation of the state and advisory referendum shall be settled from the state budget while the funds for the implementation of the local referendum, as proposed here, shall be provided in the budget of the units of local self-government and the units of the regional (regional) self-government in which the local referendum is implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204040	The bearer, the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204041	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for this amendment and what I would like to do with this amendment, is to ensure that the funds are implemented in the city of Zagreb for an advisory referendum on the mistrust of the mayor of Zagreb for the city's leadership. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia makes it impossible. The HDZ, or Prime Minister A. Plenkovic, is obviously behind M. Bandic together with V. Beros makes a firm axis of Bandic-Beroš-Plenkovic who has done nothing in Zagreb in the last 60 days. It did not allow the citizens of Zagreb to live a normal and decent life. I want the citizens of Zagreb to have the opportunity to say about Bandic in a referendum, an advisory referendum on what they think. It is saddened that colleagues and colleagues, that HDZ thus protects criminal management of the city. The citizens of the city of Zagreb must be aware that every vote in the future parliamentary elections for HDZ, the vote for M. Bandic, because if HDZ remains in place, M. Bandic can sleep peacefully. And on this side, colleagues and colleagues, I want the funds to be secured, I want the citizens of the city of Zagreb to collect their signatures in the next month and a half for the opening of the advisory referendum, and finally, at the advisory local referendum, to say what they think about Bandic and HDZ that protects him, and that is why I propose that this amendment be adopted and that we ultimately have the funds foreseen in the state budget to implement it. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204042	Amendment number three of the SDP Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204043	Excuse me, I am now, if I may say so, regarding division 0.20 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representative Gordan Maras. Yes, this proposal was not accepted because it was not in accordance with the law...... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204044	Okay, well, I can mix up the paperwork, so you didn't react immediately either, and you didn't respond immediately when he called you, but you were on your cell phone, and you were looking at something else. ... Well, no, here, the only question was in the papers and here it is. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Secretary of State... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204045	I apologize, simply on the list that the Ministry of Finance has agreed on proposals and answers to the amendments, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that these budgetary positions are provided for in other items which are not delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204046	On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative Maras. Now let's make a deal, you were so impatient when the secretary of state couldn't find one piece of paper and now at least make a deal inside the SDP club who's going to talk. Dear representative Leakovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204047	If I understood correctly, the amendment would not be accepted but she would ask the Secretary of State to repeat why it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204048	Here it is, I will, I will. [[Intruder Leakovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204049	Well, he said but you should've listened instead of telling him what he couldn't find paper at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204050	The planned funds within all activities of the Civil Society Development Programme and cooperation with NGOs are sufficient to meet the obligations of the Association Office as well as the financing of projects and programmes of interest for the general good carried out by associations financed by the European Social Fund and the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme. On the other hand, these activities, proposed by which money would be downloaded, are the provision of material resources planned for the MRLs, and at that time all equipment and means are continuously carried out and allow for the regular functioning of the Armed Forces units and in order to preserve the capacity of the Armed Forces to maintain sovereignty in the integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments undertaken in international defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204051	Here is now a detailed explanation given, respected representative Leakovic on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr. Secretary of State for the detailed explanation of the rejection of this amendment, which we know that in this health and economic crisis, which is unfortunately expected, civil society organisations, civil society associations and self-organised citizens have done very much to contribute to the consequences of the COVID pandemic 19, so it is unacceptable for us to actually punish active citizens and citizens who in civil society organisations bear an extremely large burden of assistance when it comes to social function, when it comes to humanitarian associations and when it is actually about everything that our citizens and citizens expect, and of course when they do not get it, or when it is not enough, they organise themselves and carry out various knowledge activities. Since this will certainly be the case in the coming period, we regret that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to save on civil society organisations, NGOs and, of course, we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204053	Thank you. The Fourth Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204054	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction is not accepted because the activities of the Croatian Parliament, as I said on the opening amendment, costs for services, they are provided with funds for the settlement of known commitments and for the planned restoration of parts of the Croatian Assembly building that have been damaged due to the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204055	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, the proposed amendment says something similar to that of the previous one, that in this crisis time gender equality or activity of the Office for Gender Equality and cannot accept the argument of the Government which is the same as that given earlier, given that the activities of the Assembly have already been reduced in the budget rebalancing of the technical work of the Ministry of Finance or during this crisis, the crown of the crisis until practically the Parliament has met in the manner in which it is common and and and will not be met since Monday the next 2 months. to the elections and then probably in a reduced volume because there is a summer break, the formation of the government, only from 15. 9, de facto from tomorrow or Monday, which is 18.5 to 15. 9. We will not even have concrete activities in the Croatian Parliament or there will be no need for some costs, for the services that are planned here. So if we have five months. de facto not that Parliament will not be sitting, that it will not work, then it is certainly possible to find 300,000 kn in order to promote gender equality policies, in order to allow for that topic which is Croatia a lot of me to say important and pushed aside, means HDZ does not speak of it at all because it is not in the interest that these policies come to some normal level, I will not say first because it will not be near the first plan but to be a better situation than it is today. On that side, Mr. Vice President, I insist that I take this amendment to the end of the vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204057	Thank you. The fifth amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204058	The amendment is not accepted. The project proposed here in terms of an increase in funds called "Consultation of the public on the correct communication through the Internet and social networks" is financed from EU funds totalling 6 million kuna and is planned in 2020 according to the expected spending dynamics. On the other hand, the funds from which money is intended are intended to be put on this project are the funds related to NATO missions and operations carried out in accordance with decisions taken in this House of Higher Education, so in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204059	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I proceed to explain this amendment, I would like to inform you directly that HRT violates its contractual obligations to transfer the debate on the state budget. So at this point there is no transfer on HRT, program number 4 which they would have, according to the contract signed with the Croatian Assembly, have to execute and I would like to inform you that people who care about it would be able to inform HRT that citizens have the right to hear what MPs are proposing and what the government accepts or does not accept when it comes to the state budget. So this is one indication of how HRT behaves, and I will now say it from every amendment onward to see the HDZ closes the media space by pressing the HRT not to pass on a session that discusses the state budget. So I ask you to try using the secretary of Bucharest to inform HRT that they respect the contract they signed with the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204061	We'll certainly do that, but the story of the HDZ affecting it is completely pointless, of course. But I agree that they should pass it on and... [[Intruder Maras: No, it's not pointless because it affects.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204062	Mr. Bukarca, please, the vice president has told you, inform the people working on HRT to choose to carry out their contractual obligations. As far as this amendment is concerned, the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society is something that I think colleagues and colleagues need to be promoted is clearly why. The coronary crisis has come, we have problems and we need to develop digital services and support the digital services used by our citizens. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is not at the level of developed European countries promoting and supporting the use of e-service Yeah, let me explain. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Okay, but I spent it on one thing. [[And you can't, your time is up.]] Okay, I'm asking for a vote, yes, thank you very much. [[Intruder Rainer: That's your problem, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204063	Of course. The Sixth Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204064	The amendment is not accepted. Increases to division 0.36 The Central State Sport Office is not accepted because, according to the agreement on joint financing of the rent for the City Sports Hall in Varazdin and the contract between the city of Varazdin and the company Drava, the agreement on joint financing of the Zagreb Arena since 14 June 2007 and the contract between Lanista d.o.o. and the Zagreb holding company from the said item provided for the financing of the lease and indexation of the lease for those facilities and the planned amount there is sufficient for the financing of those activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204065	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the situation next. In 2007, we built halls, which we all remember, too expensive and non-functional to the intensity and demand of then-Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and HDZ, the megalomanical halls particularly came to terms in Split where we see how the Spaladium arena passed and how much it is essentially functional. The only arena of these larger halls that works and which has as much cost-effectiveness is Zagreb and it is also on the border of rentability. Of course, all these halls have been built with excessive costs and have been overpaid which, of course, is not specific to the construction segment only when it comes to HDZ. Here what I want to mention is that if the state has somehow forced the construction of these objects, then it should also stand stronger to maintain the facilities and see how these objects could be used more. For example, if these facilities were needed in other situations, we saw in the city of Zagreb where, during the crown of the crisis, we now had a prepared reserve position for not giving a god, accepting patients who could not be hospitalized if the epidemic had been said once again, accidentally spread out and endangered most of our fellow citizens. So, colleagues and colleagues, if we have already gone to this, if we support sport in Croatia, if we support units of local self-government to develop sports facilities, I think that the government on this side, especially in the city of Zagreb, should give more support, and therefore I propose this amendment and, in some way, ask to be heard about it at the end and vote because it is clear that the government is ultimately responsible that we have these halls that have been exaggerated and invested I'm asking for a vote, yes, thank you very much. [[Thank you. You're asking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204067	Come on, please, stick to the time, you've got two minutes, that's quite enough to explain, every time you've crossed that time. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. The seventh amendment of MP Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204068	The amendment is not accepted. The value of promoting local sport and sports competition, the amount of €48 000, is planned to be paid to persons who will work on a project to encourage local sport and sports competitions and are not in a working relationship in the Central State Sport Office. Since that amount is sufficient for the planned activities, an increase of 5 million kuna is not required.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204069	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment is one of the amendments I'm talking about for the need, which I'm talking about the need to return to normal life in the Republic of Croatia. So we had a two-month crisis, we locked ourselves up, we closed everything, people went to their homes, we promoted "stay home," we fought against the virus. Here now we want to get life back to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Well, before the budget rebalancing came and before the closure of the Republic of Croatia, there was more funding. We've been thinking about how to support school sport, how to sort of do it in the Republic of Croatia in some way as much as possible and try to show the kids what they should do first. Here, the Croatian government has shown that it does not want to return to normal life. If we were good as a nation to shut everything down or defend ourselves against the virus, but now that we're supposed to go back to normal life, there's nothing now. The only thing we still have left to listen to is a political headquarters that every day at 2 o'clock speaks on HRT and on other TVs and explains to us how and how we should and when and how we should work. So on this side, instead of here, I suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia close down that headquarters that is probably already slowly and disturbing to the citizens, and that it invests more in a normal life that should be returned to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you very much. And we're asking for a natural vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204071	The seventh amendment of MP Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204072	Eight. The amendment is not accepted. All activities of prevention of violence by sports in schools are paid...... Therefore, all these activities prevent violence by sports in schools are paid afterwards to persons who will work on a project to prevent violence by sports in schools and are not in a working relationship in the Central State Sport Office. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I'm sorry, it's the eighth, sorry, it's the eighth, I'm confused, we just passed the seventh, the eighth.]] Since that amount is sufficient for the planned activities, there is no need to increase the resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204073	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Like the previous amendment, this amendment goes towards normalising the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, to move normal life into the Republic of Croatia. It is amazing to me that HDZ of all the things that Croatian citizens are struggling with, decided first to do what is right for him and these are parliamentary elections. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 90% of them were not in favour of parliamentary elections taking place in July of the month but preferred the 9th or 10th month. They were about returning normal life to our markets, streets, schools, museums, theaters, to finally start life, to enable people in the city of Zagreb to finance cultural needs, cultural programs, that's what people wanted. What did HDZ choose? He didn't choose plays, he didn't choose cinemas, he didn't choose a normal school because at this point in the Republic of Croatia we don't have a normal school but we have something that's an illusion that the education system is going on and everything is on parents and teachers doing it online. And on that side and this is another one in a set of amendments that I have submitted to make the Croatian final government realize that citizens do not ask it to provide the HDZ with a better result in parliamentary elections, they are not interested at all, ladies and gentlemen. 90% of Croatian citizens are against the elections being held in July, they are interested in returning normal life to Croatia as soon as possible and therefore I propose this amendment and ask for a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204075	The ninth amendment of counsel Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204076	The amendment is not accepted. The activities and training and equipment for the needs of fire interventions have been provided with sufficient resources according to the Croatian Fire Community's 2020 work programme and the parallel funds proposed to settle the amount proposed by this amendment relate to NATO missions carried out in accordance with decisions taken in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204077	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the beginning, I will inform you that the HRT continues to ignore what we are paying it for, so that we pay the HRT and the fee that Croatian citizens pay in part, pay to be able to monitor what is happening in the state budget. I continue to inform you that television violates the contract it signed with the Croatian Parliament, it still has a studio show instead of following the debate on the state budget. I don't know if you've informed anyone, whether the information has been passed, but this is scandalous. The Croatian public money taken from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia does not allow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear what HRT signed in the contract to follow and this is a debate on the state budget, and therefore our citizens cannot hear a reason about this amendment, the ninth amendment that I have given and it is about to give recognition to the heroes of the Republic of Croatia, one of the heroes of the Republic during the earthquakes in the city of Zagreb who worked day and night with their colleagues from Zagreb firefighters and from all over Croatia and helped people when unfortunately it was the hardest and when they did not get help from the city of Zagreb. I therefore propose that Croatia's fire community be increased from 9.5 million kuna to approximately 15.5 million in 2020 so that new challenges that will surely be met before them can be met as quickly as possible. So we have a fire season coming up, we're coming up with a season where their services will also be of invaluable importance, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204079	11th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204080	Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204081	Since it's the same, and if you gave it 150 and I'm having a hard time getting along sometimes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204082	So the amendment is not accepted. On the project, the programme implements specific fire protection measures provided for sufficient funds according to the Croatian Fire Community programme for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204083	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204084	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, apparently the same, but if you'd looked at what program it was about then you'd understand that the amendment is different than what was before. It's exactly what I was saying. So we're facing a new challenge for firefighters. After doing a great job during the earthquake in Zagreb and helping the citizens of the City of Zagreb and thanking them for that, after helping their colleagues from the City of Zagreb and selflessly spending their time and resources for several months, there comes a time when, as every year in Dalmatia, no matter what this tourist season unfortunately, there will be no such level as we used to in recent years, but time does not ask, the heat will not ask, and the firefighters must be ready. On that side, I don't think you ever invest enough in the material technical means of our firemen. And I suggest that it increase, to increase the funds from, from, from, from, 23 to 29 million kuna, because I think that with these means, they could certainly be more prepared or welcome the season of fires more ready than they will be without it. Let's remember what it looked like over the past years, let's remember last year when Minister Krsticevic resigned because of certain things, remember how much the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has problems because of these elemental disasters. I think the Croatian government must show, I would say, more hearing, more understanding and in some way stand more determined behind our firefighters and our Croatian Fire Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204085	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204086	I'm asking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204087	11th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204088	The amendment is not accepted. Accordingly, the Croatian Fire Community Programme for 2020 was developed. additional balancing activities for the decentralised function of firefighters are provided in accordance with the mention of the Croatian Fire Community's work programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204089	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204090	Thank you very much. Here we are talking not about the fire community but about the decentralised resources that go on DVD throughout the Republic and equipping them and functioning them as one of the key components of a successful fire system in the Republic of Croatia because we are all aware that without DVDs, without such organization there is no possibility of normal functioning of the fire system. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, I think that the Republic of Croatia has to show in these times of crisis, which is important to her, which is what it will stand behind, the money for all things is probably gone, but there are some things that may not be needed, for certain purchases and purchases in the state budget that may wait a few years, but for these things, help DVDs, equip them, make them more efficient, I think they should always find money. And on this side of this year, especially for local DVDs, I think that more resources should be allocated, that this 30 million kuna more resources I have proposed here in the budget can be found, especially in the provision of certain material resources at the Ministry of Defence because given the crisis, given the weaker charge of the budget, given the less activity that will surely, if we talk about exercises and all that the military is doing, we will be able to find these certain 30 million kunas. So, firemen must be a priority, firemen must allow Croatian citizens to feel safe and to know as they always know that firefighters will come to their aid whenever they need them and therefore I also ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204091	The 12th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204092	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the planned funds for the implementation of investment-enhancing measures are sufficient and reflect a realistic assessment of the needs needed for the settlement of commitments. The calculation is based on the implementation of this measure so far and on the monitoring and determination of the level and dynamics of budgetary commitments for the next period in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Encouragement Act. In addition, it is not technically possible to implement the amendment, given that the equipment activity has been carried out by means of material technical means with an estimated €358.5 million of the planned €380.9 and the remaining neutrino resources cannot be reduced by the amount requested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204093	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am still warning of the breach of the contract that HRT has, let the citizens who at least follow us through the internet know that Kazimir Bačić, director of HRT, is violating the contract he signed with HS. This will not prevent me from talking any further about any of those proposals I have proposed for the Croatian budget. But it is a shame that the people appointed by the Croatian Government, who correspond to the board of directors, pardons, which the Croatian Government abrogates and somehow manages with the HRT to violate the conscious contract they signed with the one they are responsible for. That's what we have in the Republic of Croatia today and that's what the editor of Kovacevic Bruno, also close to HDZ and Kazimir Bačić, and I'm going to say it now after every amendment, I'm going to keep saying it because I really can't believe they're breaking what they signed. As far as this Mr. Secretary of State is concerned, I disagree with you. If we had a lockdown, if we didn't invest if people couldn't work, then of course we weren't running the program according to the dynamics as planned or as it was last year. But if I want to, if we want a normal RH, if we want the Croatian economy to move on, then we have to move on with the incentives of the economy because all of you, all of you, in the second part of the RH budget, have reduced practically to zero, everything that has been realized okay, what should be in the next part of the year, you removed it. If we want the economic downturn to be as small as possible, if we want the economy to normalise as soon as possible in the Republic of Croatia, I call on you to accept these amendments and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204095	13th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204096	The amendment is not accepted. Since activities and withdrawals and support for investment and exports will be additionally financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds and the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme 2014-2020. Therefore, no funds are needed in that part, immersed into NATO-based missions that are proposed to be reduced are implemented and are secured by the basic decisions of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204097	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204098	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, all these funds you've reduced in a way that have been planned much more in the original draft budget. So I didn't draw numbers here that were bigger than was already planned than much less than was planned in the draft budget that we adopted in December 2019. So it's not true that, if these funds were not spent, it's not true that these funds were not needed, but the government decided to cut spending and it reduced consumption right where it shouldn't have been reduced, in economic incentives. This is about as if the European Commission, the European budget, decided not to pay incentives for those most affected in the economy. On the contrary, after giving some incentives and through the Republic of Croatia, we have received money from the EU, it will continue with programmes that will continue to support the economy and the most affected parts of the economy in this crisis. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, she did not accept it, but I ask you when we have a vote on these amendments that they accept or accept any possible assistance that would, which would, which would allow the Croatian economy to recover as soon as possible, recuperate, however you wish. So, what I'm saying is that we can't expect the Croatian economy to move forward unless we have support through the budget, unless we have incentives through the budget, which would allow this economic downturn to go out as quickly as possible and move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204099	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204100	I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204101	The 14th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204102	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts does not encourage research, development and innovation only from this activity, so measures to promote research, development and innovation. The largest part of the separation is from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion in '14-20. where innovation of newly established micro- and medium-sized entrepreneurs, commercialisation and innovation and innovation vouchers and development and integration activities into global value chains is encouraged. In this regard, of course, this will continue, and from this year on businesses can also submit applications for their research development projects under the State Support Act for Research Development Projects. This is about tax relief, essentially a reduction in the tax base, which is also an incentive to invest in innovation research.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204103	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all that unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia has chosen to fight the crisis and the economic downturn in a way that takes the funds to companies in the Republic of Croatia. The funds that should have been aided by the government, excuse me, the companies that should have been aided by the government of the Republic of Croatia, are losing that aid. Look, we as a country at year level for measures to encourage research and development of innovation in companies in the Republic of Croatia have set aside 5.65 million kunas. We had before in the first budget that was adopted last year in December 2019, we had significantly higher funds. Minister Maric pulled everything in this crisis, but he did it wrong. You cannot expect the economy to develop unless it invests in innovation and development. You can't expect the Republic of Croatia's economy to move forward unless it's given to entrepreneurs to move forward, you can't take the money, so it's a completely wrong approach and I here, even symbolically, it's not some large amount from 5 to 15 million kuna, I'm trying to send a message that we're behind the economy and I hope that the government will give up such a policy. If the government doesn't give up, I ask all the MPs in HS that when we come here on Monday to vote on the amendments, to accept this amendment so that the economy will experience its recovery as soon as possible, I ask for a vote, and I ask you if I can get a glass of water.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204105	Uh, then all the MPs will get 'cause there's no reason why you'd only get one. Uh, the 15th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204106	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204107	Just don't ask for an omelet next time, please. Don't look for an omelet next time, please or something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204108	Therefore, the funds on this activity, called the implementation of activities for sustainable industrial growth, are used to settle international membership fees. Therefore, international membership fees on the basis of signed contracts, i.e. agreements, are also sufficient to settle those obligations relating to those international memberships.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204109	Your Honor, Commissioner Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204110	Thank you very much. I wasn't asking for any special status, I was just asking to have a sip, since I'm already talking for 30, 40 minutes, and I'll probably be talking for the next four hours, so I wanted to ask you to. In this amendment, I propose similar to the previous amendments to one of the projects, and this is about carrying out activities for the sustainable operation of industry to allocate more significant funds in 2020. So the concept that Minister Maric obviously accepted and suggested that everything from the budget should be moved, which is not necessarily necessary for him or for the maintenance of the cold drive. So I ask you who will produce added value, who will allow us to hire Croatian citizens who will remain at this time and who remain unemployed? So at this point, only during this two month period have several tens of thousands of our citizens lost their jobs, and that's why HDZ is running to the polls, so HDZ wants to go to the polls in the 7th month because they know that unfortunately, we are not looking forward to it, but we are warning about it and therefore we propose these amendments so that Croatian companies can work and stay on the surface. We know that the situation in the 9th and 10th months will be even worse, and it is unclear to me because it is obvious that Minister Maric has accepted the logic that worked in Agrokor, meaning that he is in charge only of cold drive or consumption and ultimately leads to the collapse of the entire system. I am asking you, gentlemen, for MPs and MPs to support this amendment and to try to do what is right, which is to strengthen our support for the Croatian economy and for the sake of also asking for a vote on this amendment. It's something I think we should do because otherwise, we have a long-term recession ahead of us. And on that side here, Mr. Vice President, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204111	The 16th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204112	The amendment is not accepted. The grant of interest for entrepreneurship loans for 2020 amounts to 13 million kuna and there is no need to increase because there have been no new requirements for interest subsidies towards counties, given the completion of a programme called the ‘Improvement of entrepreneurship and crafts programme’ or ‘Breeding until the success of 2014’, which ended on 31 December 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204113	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If what the secretary of state says is true, then it is unclear why the government planned a larger amount at the beginning of the year for this purpose. There wouldn't be any need for more planning if this was what the secretary of state said was true. I think the consequence of what is happening exactly the opposite, that from before the crisis and since last year of course the programs have been completely abolished, it is a very quality program that allows many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by county in the Republic of Croatia and craftsmen to launch their jobs. And of course the message being sent here to entrepreneurs and craftsmen is exactly the one I claim to be guilty of, and that's not to invest, don't invest, if you still have situations where you started some investments with them. So instead of trying to give cheaper loans now, trying to give people maybe a moratorium for a year to welcome a new season if it's about tourism, we're cutting subsidies. That's not good. This government was supposed to sit with banks, this government was supposed to pass a law, it was supposed to support a SDP law that talked about a year of moratorium on loans for both citizens and companies. Imagine how people in the Republic of Croatia now feel about their entrepreneurial ventures, for example in tourism they took 100, 200,000 euros in credit and there is no tourist season, where they will pay for it, does anyone think about it in the government? I see that, not since the interest subsidies are being reduced and the subsidies that entrepreneurs should achieve and ask for a vote on this amendment are being reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204115	The 17th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204116	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed budget plan of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2020 at the position of the Small Economy Guarantee activity, refers to reservations for losses incurred, not guarantee potential. The means of carrying out that activity are already provided by the proposed plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204117	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204118	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, please correct me if I am wrong, it seems that Kazimir Bačić and Bruno Kovacevic are stronger than the state, means that they determine in Croatia how laws and contracts should be respected. I'm curious as to why there's still no transmission on HRT, I'm inviting you to interrupt the session until they do. Yes, it can be funny to you, Mr. Bukarica, is it an obligation, see what it says in the contract between HRT and HS and the obligation to inform Croatian citizens in view of the money that HRT receives from paid broadcasting fees. So I want to inform you once again. And here I'm talking about guarantees that will certainly be increased in this year given the crisis that has occurred and given the guarantees that have been issued over the past years. It is normal to increase guarantees if the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Innovation HAMAG-BICRO expects certain requirements from its users. If some have come to the problem because of the covid or because there will be a recession this year of 10%, do I not understand how colleagues and colleagues, do you expect that item to remain the same? I expect it will be bigger, that the demands have already been activated, that people will unfortunately get in trouble. No one is looking forward to it, but we need to be prepared for people to be able to achieve these guarantees in some way. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, Vice President, I would like to inform you that I will also request the vote and support of MPs and MPs in HS on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204119	Of course, however, I must answer you because you insist on the obligation. There is a contract, of course, but it clearly states in that contract that HRT has software and editorial independence, so they cannot or cannot be dictated to them by what parts and parts they will carry. And when in the part where what is actually wanted to be achieved and what is transmitted in HS sessions, it is also specified that they have the right to other content also to be transmitted. Therefore, we cannot order them to carry something or not. This is the turn of the contract, so it would obviously be good to transfer, but they do, most of it really do, and in some moments they probably insert some of the contents, just following that contract. We're going to the 18th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204120	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed budget plan for support activities for research and development projects refers to covering the costs of external experts to evaluate project applications under the State Support Act for research and development projects. Therefore, the funds planned for that activity do not affect the number of project applications received by entrepreneurs or the amount of State support that entrepreneurs may receive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204121	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you realized that the budget transfer should be, no matter what they have the ability to pass on, something else. This is important for Croatian citizens to know that the Croatian contract accepts the obligation to transfer specifically the budgetary topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204123	No, no, that doesn't stand, that's not true. That's not true what you're saying, I categorically deny it. No, I've said my opinion that it would be good for them to pass it on, but I can't order it. And the contract absolutely doesn't say that they have to carry They must transfer the Assembly's meetings so that they can include other contents and that allows them to contract. [[Intruder Maras: And what must they carry?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204124	It says specifically which, I've seen it like this before, it's written like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204125	You saw wrong. Look at the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204126	I just know what practice is, so far, the transfer on the budget has always been monitored in a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204127	This isn't about the budget transfer this is a declaration of amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204128	Budget proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204129	The draft budget, but the draft budget has been fully submitted and all discussions, all remarks and all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204130	Uh, here you go, Mr. Vice President. Now we've come to the point of passing the budget debate, and that's their obligation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204131	No, it doesn't say that if I should tell you five times the same thing, it doesn't say in the contract. Let's go if you want to do the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204132	Okay, okay, so HRT broke practice right now on the last day of the HS meeting to transfer the debate on the budget and does not want to hear, it does not want Croatian citizens to hear what the Croatian government objects to the state budget. One of these objections is the reduction in the 18th amendment to increase, i.e. the pardon support for research and development projects, that is something that Croatian citizens should not hear in the opinion of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204133	The 19th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204134	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction in HS's cost-related position for services because these funds are intended for the settlement of known liabilities as well as for the planned renewal of part of the HS building which is damaged as a result of the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204135	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This is about something very common during this term, and it is not support by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on a conflict of interest. So we witnessed the avoidance of the Prime Minister and HDZ to give information about their visit to Finland. We have witnessed the ignoring of the commission by many institutions that are within the government and the ministries, we have witnessed that 14 ministers and ministers have left the government of the Republic of Croatia precisely because of the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. And we believe that this commission should be given more funding, that more support should be given to the commission and that it should finally be recognised that this limit of unacceptableness of certain things in the Republic of Croatia has been raised. So from that side of the co-worker and colleagues, Tolusic would not leave the government of the Republic of Croatia, he would not leave Kushevic from the government of the Republic of Croatia, so these are all ministers who left because of the work of the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest because they found discrepancies in property, with journalists, of course, because they found many things they couldn't explain to them. And that is why I ask that, in this way, greater support to the commission, especially in information, so that Croatian citizens can digitally monitor the movement in the property of officials and thus react as soon as possible. Imagine now we have a situation for digital people to see that Bandic has artistic works of 30, 40,000 kuna at home to make art [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Okay, I'm asking for a vote on that. [[Intruder Reiner: You've gone beyond your time again, so finally discipline yourself.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204137	That's why the Rules of Procedure, there's some order, so we're not exactly in the jungle, are we? 20th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204138	The amendment is not accepted. In connection with literary publishing, the Ministry of Culture makes a public call for funding the programme on culture in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, and... the programmes discusses and values the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. In this respect, the funds for the financing of literary publishing are therefore provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204139	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. There will now be several amendments to culture, which unfortunately happened in Croatia during this crisis, and I will dare say, it was the most injured in the Croatian metropolis in the capital city of Zagreb, where something that had not happened anywhere, and that is that the decision of the City's headship or mayor has suspended all the programmes in culture, all of them. So at this point in Zagreb's culture not only does nothing happen because okay, I can't even do museums and theatres, etc., but nothing will happen and when conditions are obtained to open them, because of what the mayor of Zagreb has decided to stop all programmes with the support of HDZ. And I propose one of the amendments to finally start talking in Croatia about this problem, to stand behind free artists, to stand behind free publishers or publishers and writers and those who contribute to their work to make Croatia a better place, and on this side I propose that this amendment increase support for literary publishing from 34 to 44 million kuna. Of course, it wouldn't hurt a little more transparency for the minister and her team in sharing these funds because it usually ends up still on the principle of who's better with whom, instead of doing better programs and importing better quality titles and therefore asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204141	21st Amendment of MP Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204142	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is similar in the sense that the Ministry of Culture is calling for the funding of the programme in accordance with the law. As regards the proposed increase here related to the financing of the Culture New Foundation, funds have been provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the revenue from gambling for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204143	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204144	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course I'm not happy with the explanation the Ministry of Culture has delivered to you here to present him at HS. So what I was looking for was just a return to the old or return to the funding level that the Culture New Foundation had in its proposal for a state budget for 2020. It is said that in the rebalancing of the state budget, the Ministry of Culture is significantly damaged by the culture ministry's budget is now lower by about 8%. In particular, when it comes to the Culture New Foundation, which is a complementary source of funding for the contemporary artistic practices of the civil society organisation, it lost almost a million kuna in this rebalancing process. I believe that, as we know, the arts of culture, artists and artists have not been able to perform in these past months because of the health crisis in much part of what they intended or could not in some way reach their audience, I believe that because of their health reasons, they have been prevented from acting in a way that is common, especially in implementing arts they should not be punished, and it seems to me that these moves by the Government of the Republic and the Resord Ministry do not only help this crisis in culture overcome itself but in some way punish artists and artists and all those who care about culture and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204145	22nd Amendment of MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204146	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons as indicated in the preceding amendment as well as the amendment before that of the amendment to the number of the 20th Honorable Representative of Mr Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204147	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204148	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Again, I am not satisfied with, of course, the explanation delivered to you from the Ministry of Culture. In this amendment, I asked for an increase in the funds for participation in culture and the development of the audience to the funds that were otherwise planned in the draft state budget for 2020. It is again that from the current 3 million and 900 thousand kuna, these funds are increasing to 4 million kunas as previously planned. It may seem to someone that the funds that are not significant, however, when we know that just participating in culture and the development of the audience are related to the social inclusion of those who otherwise do not have access to cultural content, not only in terms of audience but also in terms of participation, in terms of avoidance of all possible forms of discrimination or prejudice in this society, then I think it is very important that the Government of the Republic and in the proposal for the rebalance of this budget, and also in the future takes care that cultural content be geographical, be social, be economically accessible especially to those who are not socially and economically powerful. And again, I am sorry that on these programmes and on these projects, civil society organisations and art organizations, artists and artists are also saving money. Of course you ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204149	23rd Amendment of MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204150	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, due to the spread of Covid-19 disease, there has been a reduced range in the implementation of the Rijeka 2020 programme. The European Capital of Culture and therefore the added funds are not necessary. Other activities in the position of spiritual care are planned for the spiritual care of ministry employees and armed forces in line with the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204151	Dear representative Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. I reiterate my dissatisfaction with the answer of the Ministry of Culture which you are presented here to read it to me or to inform me of it. Therefore, as regular parliamentary elections are planned in Croatia sometime in July of this year and because epidemiological assumptions are created, a favourable epidemiological situation, I suppose, in the same way, will begin again to a greater extent or in full extent, and the programmes that are related to something is not only to the city of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County but the entire Republic of Croatia should be a central cultural event this year, and then, of course, create assumptions for the development of culture and art in the coming years and in fact, one whole generation of artists and artists, and also us who follow culture and participate in culture as an audience in some way entrenched. Here we are talking about that the funds for the implementation of the European Capital of Culture Programme Rijeka 2020 from the position of the Ministry of Culture, which is their obligation, have been reduced from 15 million kuna to 10 million kuna, which, of course, I disagree with and I believe that since we are going towards a favourable epidemiological situation and good handling with the virus, we need to be very supportive. So, to talk about Croatia having an obligation to contract with the Holy Table, to spend on spiritual care at the Ministry of Defence and to this rebalancing of 9 million and 270 thousand kuna. I would rather that amount be reduced a little less than by 5 million kuna, that will certainly be enough and to take more care of our spiritual and cultural needs within the framework of the European Capital of Culture Rijeka 2020. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204153	24th Amendment of MP Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204154	The amendment is not accepted. The funds under the support programme to the religious communities are intended for the settlement of contractual obligations, therefore the basis of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia as an international contract cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204155	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204156	In the amendment that I asked that the funds that were otherwise provided for in the national budget for this year refer to the Operational Programme Effective human potential, and in fact to all programmes and projects implemented by the Ministry of Culture and the Republic of Croatia through civil society organisations, the "media Community" programme and in every way tries to make culture, art, art and cultural creation available to the greater circle of people, especially those who are economically and socially discriminated or whose cultural content at local and national level is not so accessible. Again, it is an extremely bad message from the Croatian government and the Ministry of Culture that they are reducing funds in this way when it comes to social inclusion, precisely when it comes to the development of the possibility of participation of those who otherwise do not have access to culture and art because they do not have financial opportunities. Of course, I have requested a reduction in the resources foreseen in the state budget for the financing of religious communities because I believe that the religious communities, especially the Catholic Church in Croatia in this crisis, have passed uncircumcised, perhaps the only one of all. So I demand a vote on this amendment and I hope that the next government will have much more hearing for the cultural needs of its citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204157	The 25th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204158	The amendment is not accepted. Regarding the programme Entrepreneurship in Culture and Creative Industry, the reason for not accepting the amendment is the same as the amendment to the regular number 20 of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204159	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is one of the economic branches, although in the main ministry of culture that has developed a lot over the past years, which is particularly expressed, in the position of further developing compared to before, because these creative industries include, for example, making online games or mobile applications, etc. It would be logical that given that the situation is such that it is appropriate for such companies to develop to support them and allow them to engage in certain activities. On the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible to reduce the funds planned under the programme in the past period to mean in the 2020 budget and instead of trying to recognise the moment or the possibility to take a step forward in that segment, it is doing exactly the opposite. And that's why I'm asking us to try here in HS to find ways to recognize that we can do certain things, even though the budget is in a relatively difficult situation for the economy to start and eventually have the possibility of getting out of recession as quickly as possible. Companies dealing with creative entrepreneurship, etc. Creative industries are developing in Croatia, and in these difficult times there are many that are both internationally successful and certainly there is room for these incentives to be used even better and therefore I ask for a vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204161	The 26th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204162	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture invests considerable funds in the restoration of cultural monuments in the Republic of Croatia which are financed in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture on the basis of which a public call for funding of the programme is called for. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204163	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. What I can tell you and what I think we should do in some way is invest in monuments that we have in the Republic of Croatia, especially in monuments that made the Republic of Croatia a winning Allied power after II. World War I. So because of the strong anti-fascist movement in the Republic of Croatia whose participant was one of your predecessors in the position of HS president, the great poet from the island of Brac, Mr. Nazor, I think it is amazing that Croatia is ignoring this segment and that we must watch how hundreds and hundreds and thousands of monuments, unfortunately have no support from the Ministry of Culture in the form of protection of monuments of anti-fascist fighting in the Republic of Croatia. So these 5 million kunas may not solve the problem, but it would allow many of these monuments to look much better than they look today because it is not something Croatia should not be proud of. So these monuments are something that Croatia should be proud of and that many of the tourists would be very happy to visit and look at. So the shame for the Republic of Croatia is exactly the opposite of not taking care of these monuments, and that's why I suggest that these 5 million kunas be singled out in this year, that we move on with it, and that next year we continue in that direction. Because the government doesn't accept it, I am asking you, Mr. Vice President, to discuss this amendment on Monday for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204165	Of course. The 27th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Budget Act, and we will move on to the 28th amendment of Representative Maras. Here's a colleague of Maras what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204166	We have received information that everything is fine with this amendment, from Vice President Hayadas Doncic. ... Here it is, here it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204167	All right, let's continue the session. I said why we won't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204168	Then you shouldn't even be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204169	The 28th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204170	The amendment is not accepted. Since the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not a source of funding for unclassified roads, it is the same in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government as the basis of the Article. 98.i 101. The road law currently does not have the possibility of meeting that requirement. In addition, it is not possible to implement the amendment technically, given the funds implemented so far, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 million kuna has been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204171	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the amendment we are moving to an area that is particularly important to me, which is the City of Zagreb and the situation that we have in the City of Zagreb. All other amendments, or a large majority of them, refer precisely to the City of Zagreb and here we are talking about that, regardless of the budget of 10 billion kuna, regardless of the budget of Holding, which is still approximately as much related to public enterprises, related to what and how they deal with, regardless of the large number of users in the City of Zagreb who use Zagreb Holding services daily, the road infrastructure does not satisfy or is not good. And I must admit that this amendment looks this small and unusual since the City of Zagreb would have to deal with these things on its own, as citizens of the City of Zagreb pay the highest tax in the Republic of Croatia and each year more than 500 million kuna is additionally on taxes for all we pay from the salaries of Zagreb and Zagreb so that this infrastructure will ultimately be of quality. Unfortunately, she didn't. Here is one of the projects that has been standing for years de facto in a drawer that is not being removed and which city the size of Zagreb should be resolved only so that no one can turn or simply technical arrangements and solve it. But since that is not the case, I propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is its partner and one of the closest coalition partners to predict this amount in the budget and that in this way Zagreb is made possible and I ask for a vote on it Monday when the statement is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204173	The 29th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204174	As with the previous amendment, this amendment is also not accepted for the same reasons, so there is currently no legal possibility of reducing that requirement, given that it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea but in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government because it is the subject of their decision. It is also not possible to implement the amendment for the technical reasons I just described.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204175	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment touches one of me would say the most important and most bitter topics in the City of Zagreb, which is the recovery of bridges that are in very poor condition that we can witness every day, whether, unfortunately, because of the weariness of the pipe, we have the end of the hot water supply in New Zagreb or when visually, people who cross, and cross them a lot by using all the rash for recreation, can testify and see how long these bridges have lasted. Since nothing has been invested in them for years, since even the coalition partner of Mr Bandic in the government of the Republic of Croatia, HNS has warned of it, and it still does nothing, we think that this should support the budget item because this is about bridges used daily by hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens. It means whether they traveled from, on the one hand, Sava to the other side of the Sava, whether they traveled from one county to another, for example, someone from Sisak or someone from Velika Gorica who goes to the city of Zagreb, means hundreds of thousands of our citizens and our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, more counties use these bridges that have worn out, and I would say, partially endanger the safety and safety of those who use them. Since the city of Zagreb has been financially devastated by long-term squeeze, i.e. by sucking money on any projects from the city budget and by not investing the city of Zagreb in these bridges, I suggest that we do so through the state budget because I think the citizens of the city of Zagreb and those who use these bridges deserve it and therefore I ask that we make clear on these amendments on Monday, i.e. to try to do everything to make our fellow citizens feel safer Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204177	The 30th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204178	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation, as has been said for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204179	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about another infrastructure thing or road in the city of Zagreb, which many of our citizens see every year. So we have Branimira, which was built in one of its lengths and somewhere on top of the fourth, that is, Gornja Dubrava, yes, should continue towards the Councils and end the road and it does not end for years because the city of Zagreb unfortunately does not allocate enough money, and it is not able to even withdraw money from the EU funds that exist for these projects. So the problem is in the city of Zagreb means that apparently the mayor Bandic does not have enough resources to complete certain projects that should be supported and that should be completed in order for citizens to have better quality services, in this case of transport, and on the other hand, there is not enough quality to, and skills, be realised by EU funds. For this reason, I propose that this money is planned in the state budget so that it will finally be completed so that citizens of the city of Zagreb and guests, those who use road infrastructure, can finally have more quality traffic or transport from one part of Zagreb to another, for example from Sesveto to the city centre. This, in these directions, is also going on a daily basis, more than a hundred thousand people and I suggest that this, one of the busier roads in the Republic of Croatia, I propose that this be put into the budget, or that this amendment be made known when it comes to the amendments Monday and the MPs in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204181	The 31st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204182	The amendment is not accepted. There is currently a second phase of master plan of the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska County, which discusses the options of the solutions in question. HZ infrastructure is in the process of procurement for the study of Zagreb knots, which will consider possible solutions to denivelation of the railway... In addition, it is not possible to carry out technical guidance in the master plan, given that the equipment activity of the technical means has been implemented so far with 500, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9, therefore there is no sufficient resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204183	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204184	At first, I would ask that after this amendment a little break because you should do something urgent, maybe 5 minutes, I don't think it should be a problem since the Republic of Croatia is unable to make an education system for my children to be in school, they're at my office, I'd just give them to my wife, if you'll let me who came in front of HS after I finish this amendment, here, that's my application to you. So my kids aren't walking around the building alone, and now I'm going to explain the 31st Amendment. It is about denivelation of the railway through the city of Zagreb and it is about that unfortunately, we are aware in the city of Zagreb how much trouble we have because the railway is part of it, especially the eastern part of Zagreb passing through Gornja and Donja Dubrava, meaning the borderline from those two quarters and there is unfortunately quite often traffic interrupted. So in Trnava, it's one of the biggest problems, it was even I would say, protesting citizens, and when you have a situation where during one day at 20, 30, 40 times traffic is interrupted, and people have to wait to move from one side of the road, it's really not a quality solution, and that state could do that by deniveling the railroad and that transition, as it did in some other parts of the city. And on the other hand, if we deniveled the railroad from the main station in the city center to the west side of town, big spaces would be opened that unfortunately we're not using right now because they're being taken over by the railroad. For the start of the project, I plan 100 million kuna, as I say once again, Mayor Bandic, or the city administration, is unable to do so and I suggest that the amendment be voted on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204185	Although it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but they have the understanding that your children are in the office, I will give you a five-minute break, and you have already crushed the Croatian Army with your amendments, when you add them together, she has no means at all of this, this one, and then we can see each other...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204186	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204187	And we can't skip this amendment, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204188	Okay, I'm fast. I'll be back in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204189	...you, five minutes off so you can pick up the kids. At 16 and 5, I'll see you then. [[It's 4:00 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.05 HOURS]] Well, then we move on, with the 32nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204191	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204192	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that the City of Zagreb is obviously a second-class town in the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed this after the earthquake, 58 days since the catastrophic earthquake in the City of Zagreb there is no help for the City of Zagreb. The state is involved with minimum amounts, and the City of Zagreb is not even spoken of at all. After what was promised public consultation on the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, nothing happened. On that side, I am aware that unless it was possible or that, unless the Government of the Republic of Croatia did so, it would not accept and would not accept this amendment either. Since it is one of the biggest traffic problems in the eastern part of town, it is the construction of the Trnava overpass where I will once again mention 100 thousand of our citizens each day passing through and 10 thousand of our fellow citizens are standing and needlessly losing hours and hours waiting for the ramp to rise or that they can pass from one side of the street to the other, it is amazing to me that this problem has not already been solved so far. So this problem must have directly affected several tens of thousands of our citizens in the City of Zagreb who probably lose every day several hours waiting in the column. This amount, this possibility of getting rid of it because it's owned by the Croatian Railways would trust me so much to raise the quality of their lives that many of these things that seem amazing to them now, and that, for example, move a few hundred meters away with the car, and that they have to plan to last an hour would now be possible for them. So I ask you to get on this amendment and vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204194	The 33rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204195	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204196	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204197	Thank you very much. All who use Zagreb bridges can testify to how many more Zagreb needs, how many more bridges are needed in Zagreb. One of these bridges is the Trnjan bridge that would go between the two bridges so it would go up, so it would go a little bit east of the National University Library, so on that side we would get another direction that might be directly connected to Sloboština, Dugava and then towards Buzin and Velika Gorica. This bridge would further relieve certain directions that are at this point in critical parts of the day quite burdened and I think it should be one of the priorities and state, especially when we talk about the City of Zagreb. Zagreb said I, unfortunately the city which became obvious to the government of the Republic of Croatia is irrelevant. Mostly because it supports the Government of the Republic of Zagreb's criminal power that has so many affairs that it is already amazingly general and monitoring and watching. The mayor of Zagreb spends hours and hours in courts, although now the situation with Covid is as it is, in that moment it means it is not so much expression, but in recent months you have been able to watch him there almost every other day. And on this side, I know I can't expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to support Zagreb in this way, but what I can tell the Zagreb and Zagreb women is that if there is a change in power that Bandic will become the final part of the city of Zagreb, HDZ will no longer be able to support him and Change Plenkovic to change Bandic. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204198	The 34th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204199	The amendment is not accepted, with an explanation as well as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204200	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204201	Thank you very much. It's about proposing another design, building another bridge. Here we are talking about a Jaroon bridge that would connect the western part of the city a little better than it is today. In particular, he would open up the direction towards the city district of Bezovica because it would be possible to shorten and open one, shorten the way to Bezovica and open up a huge space that, which, unfortunately, is not used now, and on the other side of the bridge that would also reroute one part of the traffic that goes unnecessarily through the practical center of the city. Unfortunately, monuments and fountains are designed in the City of Zagreb instead of bridges, it is a fetish of our mayor, instead of designing and building bridges, instead of designing and building new traffic routes, instead of designing and building and helping citizens to rebuild the City of Zagreb, we do not have any of them at this time. Unfortunately, I also said by not accepting this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows how much care it is for the City of Zagreb the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows that the City of Zagreb has no support for its projects and that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are left to themselves. It's something we can't allow, it's something we have to change. And once again, changing Plenkovic means automatically changing Bandic. It is something that the citizens of the City of Zagreb must know and that the de facto vote for HDZ is a voice directly that the Mayor Bandic remains in his position and in some way harassing Citizens of the City of Zagreb and I ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204202	The 37th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204203	Amendment 37...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204204	Namely, 35th and 36th. Representatives Curray and Keatazi have been withdrawn, so we're going to the 37th Representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204205	... the amendment is not accepted, therefore, in the creation of a legislative framework relating to the system, the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the areas damaged by the earthquake in division 076 of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Arrangement by the proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget for this year to the activities of the recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area, funds amounting to 100 million kuna have been provided from the source of the general income and receipt of 88 million kuna and donations of 12 million kuna. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it is not technically possible to implement it in view of the fact that this activity which was the subject of the proposal, this is the provision of materially technical means in the context of the funding source, already 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 kuna, therefore there is no sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204206	The 38th Amendment, and the pardoned representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204207	Thank you very much. I have just been informed that it has been released into the e-consultation of the proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, which apparently resulted from public pressure and the pressure of political parties between them and the SDP to do so, but unfortunately this amendment, which did not accept, shows how seriously the Government of the Republic of Zagreb has restored. One hundred million kuna is planned for you, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and fellow citizens of 42 billion damages provided by Minister Štromar 100 million kuna in the budget was foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This tells you enough how serious they are about the reconstruction of Zagreb, it tells you enough what will happen to this Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. The SDP proposes to refund all those who are damaged and who have to rebuild their buildings either statically or to build them up at the beginning that the state refunds 50% of the cost, that the city refunds 30% of the cost, and that the owners themselves must refund 20% of the cost. It's a concrete aid, not 100 million kuna. We must restore Zagreb in the way Zagreb deserves it, we must stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb. This amendment and not accepting this amendment by the government shows how it feels about the renewal of Zagreb. Government of the Republic of Croatia does not behind Zagreb and Zagreb, and I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204208	The 38th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204209	The amendment is not accepted. It is therefore the construction of a deforestation system in the City of Zagreb in terms of the proposal, the deforestation projects in the area of local self-government units are financed from the financing of municipal compensation under the Law on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204210	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about one of the infrastructure projects in the City of Zagreb, or parts in which more should be invested with regard to the disposal of the coastal water. Unfortunately, Croatia's waters don't care enough about this, we witness it every year when due to poor maintenance, maintenance of the system quite often leads to the clogging of these drain systems and then according to these floods, but what I want to say here is that the City of Zagreb is now seeking from its 10 billion kuna government the delimination of the debt. So he spent everything that Mayor Bandic could do, the city budget is empty, the city budget can't de facto meet even the most basic needs that were put before him and now he would still be in debt to the Zagreb and Zagreb women and spend it on his projects that were regularly overpaid. We're talking about monuments on that side, and we're talking about cableways. So the problem and why I propose this amendment is because of what is urban, which is city finance ahead of collapse, which is why Mayor Bandic doesn't know if he will be able to meet the basic obligations that the City of Zagreb has to function next month. And on the other hand, it is amazing that HDZ continues to support Mayor Bandic, to hold him in power, to hold him in the assembly, and it is clear to all those who follow the situation and who are interested in the only change of Plenkovic guarantees and change of the mayor of Bandic and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204212	The 39th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204213	The amendment is not accepted in the light of the fact that the proposed amendment is not technically possible at all because, at the position or on the equipment activities, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 funds are not enough but are not sufficient at all. Also related to the hot water project, this project should certainly be analysed, elaborated and identified in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204214	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204215	Thank you very much. Today in the City of Zagreb we have a situation where tens of thousands of our citizens do not have hot water, 58 days after the earthquake. Whose credit is that? Is it an organized town, is it the merit of a mayor who doesn't know how to solve the problem after the earthquake where our fellow citizens for 58 days are washed with lions as if they were, like, living a hundred years ago, like we don't have a plumbing, like things shouldn't work out, like we shouldn't solve those who are responsible for it, and it's about the city's gas company, which has to solve the citizens of the city of Zagreb hot water, or gas supply. Of course, it would be much easier if there was no rope between HDZ and Bandic Mayor. Namely, the City Gasman is next to the coalition agreement and you will now be clear, which is why they do not give up support for Mayor Bandić HDZ, because they have received, for example, the City Gasman in the amanet and there are hiring party colleagues, friends, friends, etc. Instead of solving the problems of Zagreb and Zagreb, they are not fulfilling the most basic obligation that the citizens of the city of Zagreb have set before them, and therefore I have to propose these projects to the state budget and for this reason, for example, there is still no warm water in kindergartens and schools in Zagreb. With this amendment, I ask that this change be made. And I'm asking for a vote on him. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204216	The 40th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204217	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the development of a public water supply system in the city of Zagreb, which includes the reconstruction of the water network which is subject to the amendment, is part of the project Development of Water-Communal Infrastructure of Aglomeration Zagreb in the jurisdiction of the public supplier of water services Water supply and disposal Zagreb. It is a large EU project of a total value of €881.7 million without value added tax, of which 70.9% refers to the EU part, i.e. a billion 333.4 million kuna. The project provides for the reconstruction of a public water supply network worth 118.2 million kuna, and the project is in the final stage of preparation, as regards the very position in terms of the equipment of the material and technical means subject to the amendment, as well as for the previous amendment in terms of the lack of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204218	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and fellow citizens, each day the city of Zagreb loses 50% of its value on water. So we're paying twice as much water as we'd normally pay for it. Try to bring it closer, for example, some average bill for the water of the Zagreb household is 250-300 kuna. If we had a normal city administration, if we had a normal water system, we wouldn't pay 300 but 150 kuna. Every year, my fellow citizens, the other 2,000 kuna would be more to spend on your families, your household, your apartment, your house. Unfortunately, there is no money leaks in Zagreb, it literally leaks into the country. And every month, two days, in one part of Zagreb, there's a ruptured pipe going on, and then we don't have hot water for a while, or we have problems from the heat, and people are waiting 10-15 days for the situation to be resolved. Unfortunately, the city of Zagreb has ignored this project, i.e. the municipal infrastructure has not been invested for years, we must do so as soon as possible. It would be logical to issue certain guarantees to investors to fix the water network, and to reduce the losses and manage to settle the entire investment, but as the mayor of Zagreb does not do so, I propose this amendment to open a special item so that Zagreb and Zagreb would not lose an average family of 2,000 kuna each year. I'm asking you to adopt that and I'm asking for an amendment to this Monday's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204220	41st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204221	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204222	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204223	The biggest problem, when we talk about water infrastructure in the city of Zagreb, given the area covered is expressed in the area of the town district of Sesveta. For what? Unfortunately, in some parts of the city, they would be surprised, nor do people have water lines, or in 2020 they do not have a connected house or place where they live or live, not connected to the water supply. On the other hand, I think that the city's communal infrastructure needs to be resolved immediately. Unfortunately, I said, the financial situation in the city of Zagreb is such that the mayor spent almost everything. Instead of helping the opposition and asking Prime Minister Plenkovic here to help the opposition in the city of Zagreb to replace the incompetent and corrupt mayor Bandic, to do what is right, to make the city of Zagreb better, to enable people to have a better quality of life, to allow people to live better than they do today, HDZ chooses to defend Bandic to the end. Defend Bandic at the price that he is elected and punished in the elections and should punish HDZ because HDZ is responsible for Bandic being in power. On this side, citizens of the city of Zagreb must understand, only by changing the HDZ at the state level can the mayor Bandic change in the city of Zagreb. If the prime minister remains Andrej Plenkovic, the mayor Bandic will continue to harass us for another year, spend the money of Zagreb on any projects, run the city non-transparently. And that's why I'm asking, Mr. Vice President, for this amendment to be voted on Monday, I'm looking for a vote on it because I think it's at 22. In 2020, all Zagreb and Zagreb women deserve to be connected to the water network. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204224	The 42nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204225	With regard to the construction of water infrastructure in the City district of Bezovica, the public water supply system allows 85% of the population to be connected, and currently only 42% of the population is connected. When a real connection to a built-up public water supply system of 85% is achieved, further development of the public water supply system will be planned in the city's district through projects financed either from the EU or from national funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204226	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204227	Thank you very much. Here, you have also heard in the explanation of the secretary of state, which is why I ask that this amendment be accepted because 85% of the population in the city district of Brezovica and in some other districts there is a similar situation with the possibility of joining a water network. Which means that 15% is gone, 15% is in the city district of Bezovica about 2,000 people, there is no possibility at this time of joining the water network. It's the City of Zagreb, it's Europe, it's 2020? The same situation is in the Sesvets, the same situation is in some other corners of the city. A city with a budget of 10 billion kunas cannot provide its citizens with a water connection, a city that builds a wire for 800 million kunas cannot provide its fellow citizens with a water connection. Why ladies and gentlemen? And this is a question for Prime Minister Plenkovic, which is why he supports such management, which is why he supports Mayor Bandic, which is why Zagreb is second, which is why Zagreb and Zagreb are citizens of second order, which is why the state ignores the City of Zagreb? It is amazing that after 58 days of earthquake countries are unable to pass one quality law, the state supports a corrupt mayor, institutions are not doing their job when it comes to the City of Zagreb and the Mayor. And it is a shame that Prime Minister Plenkovic depends on Mayor Bandic. The message is very clear, we will change Plenkovic and change Bandic. It is the only thing that can allow the City of Zagreb to Go ahead and ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204228	Thank you. The 43rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204229	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of a public sewage system in the city district of Brezovica is part of the development project of agglomeration infrastructure Zagreb, which runs water supply and disposal, and we provided details within the reasons for amendment number 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204230	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is another amendment that leads to the rural part of the City of Zagreb that we have a normal city administration that takes care of its citizens and the even development of the City of Zagreb would not be necessary at all. But since we do not have, since unfortunately the City of Zagreb has an administration that lasts too long and which mismanages the City of Zagreb, I was forced to submit this amendment. This amendment is due to the management of the City of Zagreb of HDZ and the mayor of Bandic. It is amazing that in the city district chosen by Mayor Bandic on average from other parts of the city, the mayor Bandic wanted to make a compost, destroy the quality of life in the city's district, and 2,000 of our citizens in the city's district have no water connection. That's amazing, and that's what we need to talk about. Comrades and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have something to change. So the City of Zagreb deserves to move forward, the City of Zagreb deserves to be treated in the way it should be treated. At this moment with compassion that when you go out to Ilica, when you go out to the city center you see that the city is de facto still looks like a war zone, cranes on all sides, kicks everywhere, chimneys are coming down on all sides, ladies and gentlemen it's not okay, city hall and mayor of the City of Zagreb were supposed to help our fellow citizens get through the problems we found ourselves in after the earthquake and this epidemic That's not what happened, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204232	Thank you. 44th Amendment of Representative Željka Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204233	The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed to transfer funds to the regular activity of the University of the North to explain that EU projects of the University of the North are only recorded as revenues and expenditures within the State budget, and in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2020. The University of the North is excluded from the payment of its own and dedicated revenues to the State budget and the same is only monitored in the State budget due to a partial insight into all revenues and expenditures of budgetary users.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204234	Dear Representative Lackovic. Why don't you go next door, maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204235	Here's the thing. The Honorable Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, so this amendment was actually an attempt to correct an injustice that was done to the University of the North, clearly that you are not from the competent department of science and cannot criticise or go to you. What is crucial is that in the call for projects, investment in organisational reform and infrastructure in the sector of development and innovation, the University of the North submitted a project and as the only project was disqualified from the allocation of EU funds. The scientific research centre of the University of the North of Koprivnica has been reported, it is 15 research laboratories, and that decision has been lodged, the objection has also been rejected, but the ruling of the Administrative Court annulled the decision to reject the objection and the original decision itself. Therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds, as the competent authority, made a decision in its decision of 28.1.2020 establishing that the applicant’s objection was established, and in paragraph 4(3) of the Guidelines for Notifiers, says that investment in organisational reform and infrastructure in the research, development and innovation sector requires that the implementing body, so the Ministry of Science, is obliged to provide funding for the projects of that applicant that succeeded in the proceedings. So, in a particular situation, we have the need for national resources on this particular item, and since there is no indication that there will be a continuation of school and transportation needs could be avoided in this way. Injustice, I demand a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204236	45th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204237	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted because the inability to finance this project directly from the State budget stems from the provisions of Articles 48, 49 and 50. Law on pre-school education and education, which determines that an institution for pre-school education and education is established in the budget, i.e. in the budgets of units of local and regional or regional self-government, provide funding for the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions. Also, this means that building kindergartens is not an obligation of the Ministry of Science and Education but a unit of local self-government. I'd like to stress here, if you'll allow, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is from the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period '14-20. By means of measure 741, the financing of construction, reconstruction and/or equipment of kindergartens and through two so far tenders has been agreed to 170 projects totalling more than 900 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204238	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At this point we are moving on to one of the most painful topics in the City of Zagreb, which is the problem of the functioning of an education system that suffers and because of the lack of finance, I would say the frenzy spending of the city administration in recent years, which spends on everything just not enough, which spends 3 times more than what should be spent on certain projects and we come to the fact that Zagreb kindergartens and Zagreb schools do not have enough resources to function. I am forced in this way where I have proposed to allocate certain funds for most or all public kindergartens in the City of Zagreb and for some earthquake of the affected school which I will try to explain to you through these amendments, to show that the City of Zagreb does not meet the basic needs of its citizens. It is a shame that our children in the City of Zagreb and I apologize here because people think in Croatia that standards are somewhat higher in Zagreb. Unfortunately, the city administration is late with money and when it comes to hygienic needs and when it comes to diet and when it comes to private kindergartens, I'm going to talk about something else during this debate, here we are talking about a kindergarten called the Šegrt Hlapic and which we are predicting this amendment million kuna. What Mr. Secretary of State says, this investment and this money he's talking about, we and I believe other cities in the Republic of Croatia don't feel at all And we're asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204240	The 46th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204241	The amendment is not accepted since it is the same content only refers to another kindergarten and the previous... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204242	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are talking about Sesveta Children's kindergarten in the City of Zagreb, I have to point out that I am also a parent witness of the past now that my children have gone into a manger for 9 and 10 years, that this is not working in Zagreb and I want to change that and I want to fight it. So all parents who take their children to Zagreb City kindergartens know that these kindergartens barely combine the most basic conditions, that most equipment, toys, etc., bring parents themselves and thus help Zagreb kindergartens to function better. The great and sacrificial role is the employees of these kindergartens and I thank them this way. I have immense gratitude for the aunts who raised my children along with me and who work under impossible conditions. And it's amazing that these employees and aunts in kindergartens don't have the support of the city so they can work simpler and have better quality conditions. And that is why I suggest that we also single out a million kunas for the children's kindergarten in the Sesvedas in order for it to be further equipped and in some way more quality, to be a better place for children who attend it because unfortunately there is not enough room in the City of Zagreb for kindergartens, kindergartens are not built at all, and priority problems in the City of Zagreb exist because unfortunately the mayor invests in things that citizens don't need at all and very often overpaid several times. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204244	The 47th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204245	The amendment is not accepted, as is the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204246	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204247	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here are also a kindergarten and here I want to highlight the problem of private kindergartens since we do not have enough space in the City of Zagreb in kindergartens. The city of Zagreb operates with private kindergartens as nowhere in the normal world, which is that it has determined the amount of subsidy but with these private kindergartens there are no signed contracts. So no private kindergarten has the ability to know and plan normal business from 1 to 12 months. And what happened now in this crisis? Private kindergartens or private entrepreneurs who, with a certain subsidy and extra payment of their children, came into the situation that the city decided to suspend cooperation and subsidies without delay and thus questioned the existence of hundreds of employees in those kindergartens and made a difference and shared the children by whether they were going to a private or city kindergarten, although they are going through the same programme, according to the same conditions as they should be treated and treated, because in private kindergartens they also keep, or take care of them in a very good way. The city of Zagreb, i.e. the mayor of Bandic, since there is no money, has cut off the funding and divided the children in another way. I propose in this amendment that for, also for children's kindergarten, the butterfly in Zagreb also stands out, a million kunas because you will see now in the debate how many problems there are in the educational system of the city of Zagreb which has been particularly exposed this recent earthquake that happened. [[Intruder:]] Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204248	48th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204249	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204250	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204251	Thank you very much. This is about kindergarten in Sparrow. So this is in the western part of the city, and also, I suggest a certain amount, i.e. the amount of one million kuna, to be allocated from the budget and the people who are watching us now, who live in other parts of Croatia, are certainly wondering, so how is it possible that the city of 10 billion kuna budgets cannot service its kindergartens in quality quality, i.e. kindergartens in its own possession. It is possible because the mayor of this city unfortunately does not master money in a normal, transparent way. The priorities he is working are not the same as the priorities of our fellow citizens, i.e. they are not the same to the priorities of all those who live in the city of Zagreb. Its priority, for example, is to build a monument for 30 million kuna, the priority of the citizens of Zagreb would be to build additional kindergartens for 30 million kuna. The priority of Mayor Bandic is building a wire for 800 million kuna, instead of building a cable or adapting an existing 150, 200 million, and for the remaining 600 million kunas it is possible to build 20, 30 schools and kindergartens and thus raise the quality of the education system. So colleagues and colleagues, our fellow citizens, unfortunately the mayor of Zagreb does not manage our money the way he should. Everyone knows that in the Republic of Croatia, everybody knows that in the city of Zagreb, but what's going on? The mayor of Zagreb has a key lever and key assistance from HDZ, which makes it impossible for us to change it in the City Assembly. So it is crucial that we change HDZ and that HDZ no longer gives the umbrella to Mayor Bandic from state level politically and because of That's what I'm asking for to be voted on in this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204252	49th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204253	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204254	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204255	Thank you very much. This is about also, one day of En-Ten-Tini kindergarten in the city district of the Council, and I have to admit that it's amazing for me, here's that no amendment has been accepted by all of these that I've suggested. If the government wanted to show at least a handful of goodwill, it could have suggested at least one or five or 10 or 20 amendments. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not accepted any amendments, but therefore accepts that it holds a coalition with Milan Bandic in Zagreb from week to week. Everyone here wonders why the City Assembly sits in HDZ's Prgomett and doesn't do anything. Nothing works, people, after 58 days of earthquakes, Mr Drago Prgomet did not do well to walk or visit Zagreb kindergartens and schools suffered in that earthquake. It would be normal for the President of the City Assembly to do what is logical if he sees the centre of the city destroyed, if he sees the Zagreb educational facilities that have been destroyed, to visit them, to see how it can help, how the Assembly can help, unfortunately Drago Prgomet has hidden himself in a hole, a hole in his mind, and unfortunately does not help his fellow citizens at all. He even escaped from confrontation with Mayor Bandic over a virtual session of the City Assembly. Instead of electing MPs to discuss in the assembly, he obeyed Bandic's proposal to make the assembly virtual. So much for how far HDZ has gone from the mayor of Bandic and basically everyone knows in Zagreb that HDZ Patron Bandic, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204256	The 50th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204257	The amendment is not accepted since it is identical to others from 45th to this for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204258	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204259	Thank you very much. I am now calling on all those who are watching us because this will last and since HRT has a media blockade of HS and does not allow Croatian citizens to watch the transfer of Croatian, about the budget debate on Croatian television, unfortunately, it is for the first time since I remember that on TV, or on HRT transmission, there is no such thing, so I invite you all to follow us through Youtube channel HS or follow us through cable television. All the questions and all the suggestions that you think you should say about the problem that is on the agenda, the budget and these amendments that are proposed, feel free to leave me and set my Facebook profile on and Facebook page Gordan Maras. A colleague who's now asked one thing that's also illogical to me. So, when we look at the government of the Republic of Croatia, the elections are in a hurry because the state register is probably empty. At this point, the question arises when and how much support will be paid to entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs after what HS is abolished, who will take care of it, who will be able to ask questions on behalf of these entrepreneurs? Or it will be guided by practice as it is in the case of the City of Zagreb or kindergarten and schools in the City of Zagreb that HDZ is silent and that in some way it covers Mayor Bandic and that nothing is done de facto. The problem is what I believe is that HDZ is exactly the tactics, when HS disbands only then comes up with problems. I ask that investment in Markusevic be voted on Monday as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204260	Thank you very much. Uh, you're asking to vote, right? 51st Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204261	The amendment shall not be accepted, given that it is substantially identical to the previous one with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204262	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we're talking about kindergarten in Markuševec, it's a neighborhood in Zagreb that suffered huge damage to earthquakes, huge earthquake damage and de facto in the last 58 days since the first day or the second day when Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic visited Markuševac, from then to this day no one visited or visited them or asked. At this point, people are very concerned about what will happen to them and whether the state will stand behind them. Unfortunately, the message is that the state obviously does not want to stand behind them and does not take care of them. On that side, I think it's embarrassing, and I think we should show me a different attitude in HS. We should stand behind our fellow citizens, our citizens and say very clearly, the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb will be adopted, the law will include the restoration of kindergartens and schools, what I propose in these amendments, in order to put them into office as soon as possible, related to the huge damage they suffered in the earthquake. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia does not take care of that. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia has not singled out 10% in the state budget, not 1%, but 0.25 out of it, so 25 proms have been allocated to the state budget for 2020 and thinks that this will lead to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. That's why I have to ask for a vote on this amendment, too, because it's an amendment to one kindergarten in Gajnica that also needs certain investments. I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, if I could have another bottle of water since I'm the only one in the hall, I don't think it's a problem right now, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204264	Anything for you. Anything for you absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204265	And maybe we could think about a short stop, and we've been practically here for two hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204266	Ha, listen, you've, you've given so many amendments, you could count on it. We're going to the 52nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204267	What until I fall, we move on? Yeah, well, that's easier, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204268	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as compared to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204269	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204270	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm pulling this off and my colleague secretary of state is in a similar situation, and it won't be easy for him, obviously we'll still be here for at least 2.5 to 3 hours, so it would be good if you could give us at least 10 minutes to go freshen up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204271	We just had a break because of your kids, so we can't keep taking a break. You've given so many amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204272	It wasn't a break to go, to get a little fresh at least, to go to, to a place where you should go occasionally. So on that side, I'm asking you to take care of about 60-70 amendments to maybe give us a half-way break, but never mind, we'll move on. So it's the 52nd Amendment, a kindergarten "Suncana" which, unfortunately, in the City of Zagreb and other kindergartens is not in the best, best condition. We have a problem that the city administration and the budget that unfortunately is huge when you look at it on the side, but that ultimately doesn't end up in priorities that our citizens need. I don't think it would be necessary to normally manage the city budget, look for funds on these items, but given that it doesn't manage the city's quality budget, I think it's necessary to support certain, certain parts of the education system, in this case kindergartens that are in quite a bad state. Unfortunately, Mayor Bandic often doesn't tell the truth, we all know that, and around the education system and his head Lovric have a lot of, a lot of burden on their backs. So the system needs to be better and that's why we're looking for this amendment and I'm asking it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204273	53rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204274	The amendment is not accepted by reason as compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204275	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204276	Thank you very much. This is about kindergarten in Spain. I would like to say that unfortunately in the entire city of Zagreb, and even in the area of the town of Spain, there are huge problems, and I should also point out the quality when we talk about, kindergartens and schools and the quality of life and the quality of air, there are certain waste dumps that are being warned about for years, where the mayor Bandic ignores that citizens are in the vicinity and housing and educational institutions, waste dumps that rarely end up in a fire. In rare cases, it means every two years. As a rule, once there is a fire that is owned by companies that are very close to the mayor Bandic, and we see from recently the Minister of Health, Mr Berosha, that is, his sister is one of the people who appears as the responsible person in these companies. Unfortunately, I have to admit that there is not enough consideration in the quality of the neighborhoods, the quality of life in neighborhoods where there are very many children and on that side I think we should take care of it, or that this should also be invested in certain kindergartens to protect the health of our fellow citizens from the earliest days. So here, this proposal for certain funds that would be allocated for kindergarten in Spain in Zagreb, and it's unfortunate that we have to do it through the state budget, but since the city's budget is not working, that's how I'm looking for a vote on it because I think it's something that's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204277	54th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204278	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as laid down in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204279	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204280	The same thing as for the previous amendment. This is about a kindergarten in Maleshnica and what I must sincerely call upon you that unfortunately in the city of Zagreb the priorities of reconstruction after this earthquake, the catastrophic earthquake that hit us, are not the ones that should be. So instead of refurbishing schools first, to restore hospitals first, for those at least, the city of Zagreb and the state unfortunately did not start with a quality renewal, i.e. they have no concrete plan in which they could continue to do so. When we see citizens being organized and when we see funds being collected through certain auctions and donations, in order to restore, for example, Petrova's hospital where we have, of course, an old building where a large part of Zagreb and Zagreb were born, when we see that there is no response in that facility of the state after the earthquake, will not return the incubators because they are simply not planned funds and citizens are left to organise their own donations, then you are essentially sending a general message to everyone in the city of Zagreb and the Republic that what is most important in the country and the city is not important and on this side I think that the priority of renewal in the city of Zagreb absolutely need to be essential institutions and should be hospitals because our children need to be safe and need our parents and those who are sick, be sure that the damage will be restored as soon as possible and that at the end will have the most quality possible service given at the moment. At this point, unfortunately, that is not the case, and that is why I am also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204281	55th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204282	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204283	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204284	What amendment, excuse me? 55 [[/Intruder: 55.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Kustoshija.]] It is about kindergarten in Kustoshia and what I want to tell you here that I was relieved of one thing, which is when I heard that the city of Zagreb is late with payments for basic hygiene supplies of our kindergartens and schools in the city of Zagreb. So the city of Zagreb has a certain amount that stands out for every child who goes to school or kindergarten. This fee has been reduced in recent years. Unfortunately, that standard is not the same as it was a few years ago. The directors are forced to save and manage in every way possible. Although the funds are insufficient, unfortunately they are not paid in time and many of the directors, and those who are employees of these educational institutions, means that schools and kindergartens unfortunately have problems and cannot be met, they cannot meet the basic standards they should, especially under the conditions of the epidemic and enhanced hygiene activities that they should achieve. Because if we now have a situation to invest in hygiene in shops, in pharmacies, in all possible facilities, as if not in kindergartens and schools invested in this way, or we have no increased costs, or the city has not invested in schools, in order to make plexiglases for possible minor kitchen contacts, for example, etc., there has been no investment. It's like children are irrelevant, and that's why I'm proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204285	The 56th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204286	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204287	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, to be honest, there is no representative but me here and you, and that is why I want to send a message because I think this is important, as important as it may seem to be sizifian and in some ways unnecessary, but I think it is important to warn of a new normal in Croatia. So we're going back to normal life, we're going back to what our kids should have under normal, and they don't actually have. If it invests in, for example, shops, plexiglas or certain shops, additional disinfectants, how is it possible, for example, that the city of Zagreb did not increase the child's separation for hygiene supplies in schools and kindergartens? How is that possible? Why isn't that working? However, at this point, unfortunately the educational system in Croatia is not working. The educational system of kindergartens and schools in Zagreb is not working, and now we can patch ourselves up, ladies and gentlemen in a way that there are not enough children, that is, that few children, only 2.3% of children go to kindergartens and schools and then there is no problem. But what if, when, what if everyone goes to school in the fall? So how are we gonna plan this? Will there then be additional hygienic funds for supplies and will then lead the responsible, for example in the City of Zagreb, account for it? In order to get ahead of them and so they don't, because normally they don't take care of it, I have also proposed this amendment and I ask for it to be voted on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204289	The 57th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204290	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204291	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204292	Thank you very much. This is about the kindergarten "Ivana Brlić Mažuranić" and I think it is one of the biggest defeats of this crisis, this crisis, or the situation in which the Republic of Croatia found itself inability to return to normal modes of operation and operation. We're talking, or Minister Divjak is saying that the education system in the Republic exists, that it works, that children are getting knowledge, that children can do anything they would do and that there is no crisis, I don't think that's the case. Parents watch daily collapses in the education system, parents witness daily that our country is not functioning. Here, answer me here. Have Prime Minister Plenkovic answer me. Do we in the Republic of Croatia have education and education systems or do we not? Can we in the Republic of Croatia guarantee our children safe and quality education or cannot? I don't think we can. Because of this, and because we see parents not sending their children to school, they don’t send their children to kindergarten because they’re not sure that it’s done in a good way and that they’re safe there. On the other hand, I think it is also necessary to adopt this amendment in order to make sure in the end that in this part of the City of Zagreb, we have the certainty that children can be sure, that they can be kept and educated in a quality way, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204293	58th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204294	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204295	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204296	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment that, which, which is related to, to the "Medo Brundo" kindergarten and I would like to point out once again, that the situation regarding kindergartens and, and schools in the Republic of Croatia at the moment is not working, and instead of HDZ rushing to elections, should be rushed to do so, it should be rushed to return the normal situation to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Since this is not the case, the HDZ only thinks about itself, given that HDZ wants elections at all costs because it thinks that if more time goes by, HDZ will have a weaker result and the only interest they have is in trying to extend the mandate to Andrej Plenkovic, but I think that they are wrong, that this will not happen but that citizens will see that intention, 90% of citizens do not want, 90% of citizens do not want elections in July, Andrej Plenkovic goes against them. 98% of citizens believe that the education system in the Republic of Croatia does not fit, kindergartens and schools, Andrej Plenkovic insists on the education system and creates an illusion that something like this is happening. On the other hand, as Andrej Plenkovic goes against his citizens, that Andrej Plenkovic goes against those who should give him confidence, in the end, Andrej Plenkovic will also experience the result he will experience in the parliamentary elections. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204297	Thank you. I didn't just realize if the prime minister would go to kindergarten, but fine. 59th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204298	He doesn't accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204299	He may not go to the children's kindergarten prime minister, but he should take care of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the City of Zagreb. He should be aware, I don't know if his children go to kindergartens in the City of Zagreb, but if they go then he should be aware of the situation that is there. And you should be aware, once again I will tell you that all Zagreb kindergartens, kindergartens and schools do not unfortunately have hot water, it is something that is amazing and that Croatian citizens need to know. So, schools in Zagreb City in 2020. Schools that are 100, 150 years old. They have no hot water and therefore instead of reacting and cancelling support for Mayor Bandic, he continues to support it. He's anchored. Mayor Bandic would no longer be mayor for a day without Prime Minister Plenkovic. So you could go on his shift. And on the other hand, it is obvious that it will be necessary to go to the mayor's recall to tell him what they think about his work and that will be the message that will eventually have to be understood and to which Prime Minister Plenkovic will force the citizens, i.e. Zagreb and Zagreb. And on that side, it is normal for me to propose, in such a situation, this amendment that will allow a part of our children to be safer and better educated in terms of what it is now and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204300	The 60th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204301	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204302	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the children's kindergarten "Radod" in Zagreb, and it should also be allocated to certain funds and what I think the citizens of the City of Zagreb see every day on the street, on how the city works, unfortunately it also works in urban kindergartens. When you look that after 58 days of earthquake we are not able to start the city, we are unable to clear the city or not us, but the city administration, that the state has not yet given a single kuna. These 20.000 kuna announcements for chimneys and water heaters are just announcements, and basically crumbs according to what our fellow citizens have already invested because they had to pay and move chimneys and water heaters and they had to sort out their apartments in some way. This rent announcement is also not a solution, people have for 58 days already many of them have no place to sleep, many of them have rented containers in a flower settlement outside of two homes and simply do not know when they will return there, many of them sleep in garages, many of them have rented containers to put a container next to their house and sleep in it. So there are so many problems and the mayor and the prime minister instead of solving these problems because they are there to solve problems they ignore and ultimately it is not worthy of the City of Zagreb or Zagreb and therefore we have to punish them. The irresponsibility they are showing towards Zagreb and Zagreb is unacceptable to ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204304	The 61st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204305	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204306	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The 61st Amendment is about the children's kindergarten "Paletac", and I want to point out once again the problem of kindergartens or private kindergartens that are pre-collapsed. Many of them closed down because the city was running late for months for benefits, or subsidies, that were to be given to these kindergartens. I know many entrepreneurs who unfortunately had to fire their workers, who had to close their facilities where the Zagreb and Zagreb women lost their ability to watch their children, where the standard of service fell drastically, and no one in the city even blinked. And there should be a final cut and there should be a new way of working in preschool education in the City of Zagreb. If there is a need to finance, subsidies in private kindergartens, and there is not enough kindergartens in the City of Zagreb with some money to raise children in these private institutions, then those institutions must have the security to sign their contract, they must know how many children they can have, how many children they have and what happens in situations such as the covid situation, so that they can plan their business and ultimately protect their employees and protect their business and in some way continue to do business after the crisis has stopped. In this situation, it's not possible. Unfortunately, the conditions that exist in those kindergartens are impossible to work with, and I think that what needs to be changed as soon as possible. And as for the Polletac kindergarten, I think it would be necessary to allocate these funds, and I will also ask for a vote on this amendment on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204308	The 62nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204309	It is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204310	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204311	Thank you very much. This is about "Beeica" kindergarten, which I also think should plan certain funds in the budget and in some way show that it is important for us not only in Zagreb, I am talking about other educational institutions throughout Croatia. It needs to be more isolated for education, especially for infrastructure and conditions in which our children are educated. It was an amazing recording from the other day that I saw on one of the journals that in Slavonia a school was preparing to build a hall for about ten years, never to go to the facility. And now the crisis caused by the coronary virus has led to the fact that the children, unfortunately, will not see the hall there for years. So in this case, the state does not care at all about the quality of education infrastructure, unfortunately it is visible everywhere, it is visible even in the City of Zagreb. We have schools that were built 30, 40 years ago, and the earthquake almost touched them. So they obviously had very bad anti-quake projects and what's important is that we have to take care of that when we do some facilities for our children they have to be absolutely safe. In the City of Zagreb, unfortunately this is not so, I will have a whole set of amendments that will refer to the objects that were killed in the earthquake, and I will especially explain to you, to see how much investment is really necessary in the City of Zagreb without investing anything. These 100 million kunas that the government has singled out are insufficient, and that is why I suggest that this million kuna be adopted through the amendment, and that is why I will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204312	The 63rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204313	He doesn't accept. Explanation as compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204314	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can clearly suggest whatever I want, and accept nothing or accept nothing. But the main thing is to accept Prime Minister Plenkovic is that Bandic is his most solid partner and that one without each other as in symbiosis, the cancer of singles and homes live, live politically, work, cooperate, and simply clearly that cooperation cannot be interrupted anywhere but in parliamentary and city elections. Since the parliamentary elections are now at the door, so we will have them obviously either 28.6 or 5.7 It is necessary to make changes in the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb that HDZ loses its support. Trust me on what I'm saying. This situation in kindergartens in the City of Zagreb, such a situation in schools in the City of Zagreb will continue if the authorities remain those who should not and should not behave, and the mayor Bandic is certainly not worthy of behaving that authority, everyone knows it, but the lex sheriff he also adopted in HS HDZ has made it possible for him to be protected practically as a personal bear. On the other hand, here I have to propose a certain amendment here, because unless I can suggest it, if I don't propose it, the situation will remain the same, or at least I won't, I won't have the opportunity to discuss it and, and explain it to people why I think some things have to change, and that's why I'm also asking for a vote on Monday and this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204316	64th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204317	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204318	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the equipment and adaptation of children's kindergarten "The Forest Strait", also in the amount of one million kuna and all those who are watching this transfer at the moment and think that in Zagreb the situation is great, just the opposite. So the earthquake that took place on 22.3. fully revealed the inability of the city’s administration or showed that there was no system at all. In the City of Zagreb, there is no system and there is a system that should enable citizens to live a normal life, which should be built in essence, I hope that, we will start to build and it will be established because this, this destruction, this system made by the mayor Bandic with the help of HDZ and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, is literally destroyed because in the City of Zagreb, almost nothing works. Citizens have slowly lost the will to address the city institutions at all because you can see that the city institutions can't help them at all. Not only have they not restored the City of Zagreb, but now that life is slowly returning to the City of Zagreb, people tremble in the most ordinary situations. For example, when a tram passes by their house, for example, no one in ZET thought that in Vodnikov, it was not very convenient to release tram traffic because the buildings could be further damaged. Because that's how this amount of amendment I've proposed is. It means that things work in Zagreb, believe me, and the number of amendments would be smaller. Since HDZ is the most reliable coalition partner to Mayor Bandic, we expect them to change the situation and help change it and vote on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204320	65th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204321	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204322	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is also about the “Peter Pan” kindergarten and the equipment and adaptation of the additional kindergarten. I don't know if everyone who listens to us now is aware that unfortunately in the City of Zagreb we have objects that still have in kindergartens and in the schools of asbestos boards. So records that are dangerous to health. It's a material that's been used a lot in the construction of the last century. For example, schools in Trnjanska Savica still have such facilities, schools in the area and kindergartens in the area of Vrapce, Subsident, Vrapce, they also have these facilities with, with asbestos plates and instead of changing it urgently, instead of even threatening to close these objects unless it is done as soon as possible, it is tolerated, it is made possible and unfortunately from year to year these projects are delayed, not to be created, citizens protested, parents, fathers and mothers protested, but no one hears them. So we have to solve this as soon as possible and that's why I'm proposing and some of these objects are included in these amendments, it would be easier to solve this if we get state support. So here I am asking you and asking all MPs in HS for support to do everything on Monday to correct one part of the illogicality that the City of Zagreb has, or which the incompetent city administration is unable to resolve and therefore I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204324	The 66th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204325	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204326	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am asking you that since we've come to half of the amendment to make after this amendment a little break to try to freshen up a little bit and start discussing further, yes, let's try to explain the other 60 amendments that are after, after, after these amendments, and here we are talking about the middle-aged kindergarten. So, it is, it is a kindergarten located in the area of the city district of Trešnevka-South and I think it is clear to everyone and someone might think that given the size of the quarter, to the size and number of children going there, there it is necessary to build more kindergartens, unfortunately and schools, not just kindergartens, given that the city is developing in that segment around Jaruna quite intensively, unfortunately the infrastructure that should follow it all is not so developed and there is a lot of scarcity in the development of the city and there is still a lot to be invested on that side. And in the end, I think that there is also a need to invest in existing kindergartens in this area with certain, certain money, but it is necessary to ban the construction of new settlements if there is no complete municipal infrastructure if there is no educational infrastructure, and in this case, that is exactly the case. So there's not enough municipal and educational infrastructure here, and on that side, I, here, suggest that this amendment be adopted as well. If he had been voted on Monday, I'd be happiest if I didn't have to propose it, but unfortunately, since this is about the city of Zagreb and the city administration's carelessness. I have to and here, in a way [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I ask you to vote for him. [[Employment: The 67th Amendment of Representative Maras.]] I don't know. Are we gonna take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204328	We'll take a 10-minute break, too, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204329	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204330	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204331	Thank you very much. This is about the children's kindergarten Prečko in the town of Zagreb also in the area of the town district of Trešnevka-South. I must say that when we look and very soon we will come to these changes that are affected by the earthquake and that it will take a very long time to bring them to their senses at all, that children can go there at all, and it may be good that at this moment it is not possible to run that whole system at all and that, unfortunately, it is not good because the whole system is suffering, or that parents do not have the possibility of quality care for their children and raising their children, but if children had to go to school and kindergarten now, it would certainly not be possible in full volume, and it would not be possible in Croatia, given the epidemiological conditions. So, it would be good if the government of the Republic of Croatia had accepted the SDP proposal to allow parents to remain at least one parent with children at home so that they could provide quality care not only for their children, if the child is up to 13 years old, but also to help them in a more high-quality education process. What we unfortunately have in this situation is that the government has found no hearing about it and now we have what we have. We have a problem that unfortunately only 2% of children go to kindergartens and schools and only 2% of children get some kind of Suport and services they should normally get, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204332	The 68th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204333	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204334	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204335	This is about an amendment relating to Matija Gubec's kindergarten, perhaps symbolically this amendment is important for the city of Zagreb, since we all know who was Matija Gubec and that in the 16th century he tried to correct certain injustices and fought against a single official who reminds me of the small and present city government, who at all ignored the needs of the then-Zagrebcans, although the system was different, but in the same way he rarely disregarded the needs of the citizens and the citizens would certainly express the revolution of their own, although not in the manner in which they expressed when Matija Gubec led the peasant rebellion and when people showed that they could no longer suffer terror. Now we're in democratic times and we can show it to certain things, whether it's a protest, whether it's it, here it is. In the city of Zagreb, you now have one action that shows protests against HDZ and Bandic mayors who do not regulate the city, so citizens are self-organizing the city and doing mini gardens. That way you can show a lot. Today-to-morrow when we begin to collect signatures for the mayor's impeachment, people will be able and thus to show that they are not satisfied with Mayor Bandic and HDZ and thus show, and the most important and simplest way in which we can show our dissatisfaction is by going out to elections and dissatisfaction for those who do not allow us to live quality and normal in our country and their city, so in this case I have to propose an amendment and symbolically, this is about Matija Gupac, so here, I had to tell this anecdotes from history because there are a lot of touch points, regardless of what... And I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204336	The 69th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204337	It's not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204338	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204339	Thank you very much. This is about Jarun's kindergarten in the city of Zagreb, too, a problem I was just talking about. It is a neighbourhood that develops in the residential area, and unfortunately does not monitor education infrastructure and municipal infrastructure and facilities. It is something that should not be anywhere in the Republic of Croatia, neither in the city of Zagreb nor in other cities. We must develop a city to be pleasant to the lives of those who live there and who come to live because only to buy an apartment or a house. You have to have a road, you have to have a water line, you have to have sewerage, you have to have garbage transportation, storage, separation, you have to have an education system, you have to have quality kindergartens, you have to have quality schools, you have to have, in a way, a safe environment, neighborhood stories that will allow people to enjoy living in their neighborhood. Unfortunately, when it is built without a system, when profit is the only interest, then what I am pointing out is that we have zero entire neighborhoods, and that in the end we do not have the possibility of quality education infrastructure and therefore it is also necessary to invest additionally in kindergartens and schools, and therefore we need to do so in the city of Zagreb, regardless of how many will not realize that in the city of Zagreb which should be the leader in that part, there is essentially no leadership but we cough for some other parts that are much poorer than the city of Zagreb. For example, I was in small municipalities that have better quality schools and better quality kindergartens than the city of Zagreb, which has 10 billion kunas of the city budget and therefore ask to vote on this amendment, also on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204340	The 70th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204341	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204342	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204343	Thank you very much. This is about the children's kindergarten of Zvončić and what I want to point out here is that the City of Zagreb, I sincerely hope that before the next year or before the local elections that will take place on the tenth 2021th year of May, we will have local elections that take place on the third Sunday of May 2021, to cross and part from this policy that we have both from this government and the city administration that we have in the City of Zagreb. So we can't lose another year, we can't wait another budget in a way that we have to propose so many amendments to warn about problems in the City of Zagreb, things have to change. So our maintainer, our mayor has lost all possible criteria, lost all possible support for Croatian citizens or citizens of the City of Zagreb, and simply decides to go to the castle of political history and we have to do so before May elections next year because if it is an alternative for another year to manage the City of Zagreb untransparently, to financially overpay certain services, to give money to its godfathers, friends, to those who spend this money two, three times more than they are using, I think that the city will have another 10 billion kuna damages by next year, and that is why it should stop as soon as possible. On that side, I propose this amendment, and I hope that after we get rid of Bandic, I will no longer have to propose such an amendment. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204344	Thank you very much. Since the esteemed representative Maras on behalf of the club asked for a break, then we'll give Well, a break, it's Croatian for a break. [[No, I didn't ask for a break, I just asked to take a little break?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204345	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204346	Then we'll go on without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204347	This is really incorrect. I think you should give me at least five minutes to go to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204348	I'm sorry why it's incorrect, and it's not correct that you're harassing all of us with your 100 and I don't know how many amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204349	No, you are harassing the citizens of the City of Zagreb with Milan Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204350	Excuse me, Mr. Maras' 71st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204351	Is this possible? You know what, he wouldn't give up any amendments now, if he had to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204352	You didn't mean it anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204353	If I have to sit here for another three hours, but this is really incorrect that you won't allow me five minutes to just go freshen up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204354	I'm giving you a warning because I didn't give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204355	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204356	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now you've given me your word. I think this is legitimate what I do, that I have the right to represent, whether it's good or bad, whether it's nice or not to decide Croatian voters and I'm aware of it and I'm ready to do it. I am not doing this because I think the situation in Zagreb and Croatia is good, but rather the opposite, and you cannot thus deny me the right and say that I am harassing you. I'm not harassing anyone, I've filed 120 amendments to the budget, which, as an agent, I have a right and a duty. Unfortunately, the situation in the City of Zagreb is such, not because of me, but because of you who support Mayor Bandic. I asked you culturally for five minutes off to go freshen up. Is that rude? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204358	You got five minutes off because your kids were in the office because you've got kids in the Parliament office and I've given them full understanding, past the Rules of Procedure five minutes so you can take care of the kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204359	Okay, but tell me I have kids when school doesn't work?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204360	As far as this is concerned, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, and you know it. Don't do comedy here all the time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204361	So when Vice President Brkic chaired, he often took breaks and allowed himself to freshen up, I say now I don't have a chance because you won't let me do it, so it's not correct and you know it's not correct. Thank you very much. Since you're acting like it doesn't make any sense for me to let you belittle me that way and we'll move on, even if I'm standing here till morning. This 71st Amendment, which is a children's kindergarten "Potočnica" and I also ask that since it is necessary to invest in children's kindergartens in the City of Zagreb that this amendment also goes on Monday, because unfortunately because of the coalition of Bandic and HDZ mayors in the City of Zagreb, things do not work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204362	The 72nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204363	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204364	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204365	Can I explain, Mr. Vice President, with my silence? Okay, now let's just keep it down a notch. So it is an amendment that provides for the adaptation and equipment of the children's kindergarten "Grigora Knightza" Zagreb in the amount of one million kuna and where I think it is necessary to invest in this kindergarten because unfortunately the education system in the City of Zagreb does not work because of the coalition of HDZ and the mayor of Bandic. So it would be good if instead of allowing me to, in a normal way, explain the amendments here, it would be good not to support Mayor Bandic in the City of Zagreb. This is what Croatian citizens would expect from you, what the Zagreb women and Zagreb women would expect from you. So, instead of terrorising the representative here, you step aside and move, you help us get Bandic Mayor out of his position so that he no longer personally harasses us with his management or management of the city, with his gods, friends, interest groups that led to the fact that the City of Zagreb is no longer what it should be, and that is that one dignified city that allows its fellow citizens and citizens who live here a quality life. If that were the case, that people here have a quality life wouldn't even need to submit this amendment, and I'm asking you to put it on Monday for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204366	The 73rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204367	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204368	Representative Maras. You don't have anything to say? Then we're going to 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204369	I have, I have something to say. I have something to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204370	And then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204371	There's just a little bit I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204372	And I'm sorry, I mean, if you're going to communicate with your cell phone then at the time of the conversation...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204373	No, I don't, but you have to understand that after three hours, it would be normal for you to give me 10 minutes to rest. So I had to look at something there, but simply because there's no possibility for five minutes then I had to use these 30 seconds to look at something. So there's just no possibility, this isn't a normal way to work. Instead of allowing me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204374	You're the one who caused it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204375	Well, but I can't influence it if someone's gonna give the amendment or not. So I'm in this, in this set from now on, 50 amendments. Instead of letting me rest, 10 minutes to look at what I have to do, you keep insisting that I can't go or freshen up and then wonder if I looked at something on my cell phone. It is the 73rd amendment, thank you very much for this relationship, about the adaptation and equipment of the children's kindergarten "Bajka" Zagreb in the amount of a million kuna which unfortunately is needed because of what is not working in the education system in the City of Zagreb thanks to HDZ and Mayor Bandić, thanks to Plenkovic and Mayor Bandić, thanks to those who have been harassing the citizens of the City of Zagreb for the last years, since the last elections, more than 3 years. and which do not allow Zagreb to be a normal, modern city that would meet the needs of its citizens and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204376	The 74th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204377	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204378	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204379	It is a kindergarten "Trnsko" in Novi Zagreb - west. Here, I'll do it now that Mr. Bukarica is from Split to learn some of these Zagreb neighborhoods. So it's about New Zagreb – the West, where it also needs to be invested in, in this kindergarten because there are also very many children. As you can see, the only investment that has happened in transport infrastructure in recent years I don't know how many years, investment in rotor, is an investment that ended in European funds. However, at the end of the draw, even for some time the rotor worked more or while the works lasted, the area around the rotor worked better than when the rotor itself opened, so it even asked whether this type of investment was needed, but better to invest than nothing. So there are many parts of the city district that need municipal infrastructure, educational infrastructure. Otherwise, the quarter is also famous for the fact that the school that opened several years ago died in an earthquake, there are damages regardless of what the youngest school in the City of Zagreb is. This tells you enough about another segment of the government of Bandic, which also new schools and new services, which he orders, ultimately does not deliver in a quality way. After all, we overpay things, and we do not have the service and quality we should have, and therefore I also propose this amendment, or I ask that it be voted on Monday and elected by the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204380	The 75th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204381	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204382	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204383	It's about "Sigget" kindergarten. It is a quarter which is also local committees and neighborhoods that are also located in the area of New Zagreb – the west, so, yes, it is also famous for that neighborhood because there is also a famous Hipodro, which, together with Mayor Bandic, wanted to push through the changes of GUP to turn the business around and do business in some way, and to enable investors without any excessive risk of huge profits, and to heal Hippodro, would destroy hundreds of hectares of the country on Velesaj and in some way reduce the quality of our citizens, the lives of our fellow citizens who live there. Yes, it is HDZ for you, it is the mayor Bandic and it is a signal to you what should be done in the parliamentary elections if we want it not to happen again in the City of Zagreb. So such power will never again be and exclusively if Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic submit to the sanctions. With that shit, here are the ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to accept this amendment and this million kunas to invest in this kindergarten to have a better education and to finally show us what's important to us in the City of Zagreb, and it's important that we have quality kindergartens, schools, hospitals, we don't care that we have a hundred monuments, that the money is being laundered, that it's overpaid, that we have an 800 million kuna cable carousel and all of what we have in the City of Zagreb. So I ask that votes be voted on both this amendment and that eventually, and on Monday, MPs support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204384	The 76th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204385	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204386	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204387	Amendment No. 76 refers to the children's kindergarten "Remetinec" it is unfortunately a neighborhood where one period our mayor spent certain months on. Since there are very many criminal charges pending, which are still at the pride of the HDZ, which supports it persistently and does not give up on its best friend, Mayor Bandic. It's something that's embarrassing. I would be ashamed to be HDZ, and if I were, it would be a shame on me anyway, given the way HDZ behaves, so I can't imagine myself in that position, but by any chance I would be ashamed to have a partner who has hundreds of criminal charges, who has dozens of open cases in the court in Zagreb, and then that's the problem Gordan Maras, who is talking here, who is still being said to be harassing me. So you're harassing the ladies and gentlemen of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, harassing us all together because you're holding the man who destroyed and destroyed the City of Zagreb in power, you're harassing us. And you should both be removed from power because you are agreed that Zagreb is in such a situation. I have the right to say it here, and I'm going to say it, even if I'm standing here for ten hours, I have the right to do it, and I think the citizens expect me to say it. And let Kazimir, as Kazimir Bačić and Bruno Kovacevic HDZ also defend HDZ And that's how they close down the media image so that as many citizens as they can hear. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204388	Are you asking for a vote on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204389	I'm absolutely looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204390	The 77th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204391	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204392	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204393	Mr. Vice President, are we going to take a break, it's been three hours already?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204394	I can't see, so if you want to take a break, I did offer a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204395	No, not that you give a break of ten minutes because I keep talking for three hours and I deserve to be given. Do you realize that in every job after a certain period, a man has the right to a break? What do you want me to pass out standing here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204396	Look, let's make it clear now. You can ask for a break at any moment and I'll give it to you on behalf of the club. The fact that you want some kind of break out of the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to go past the Rules of Procedure. If it's been a long time, you shouldn't have given you so many amendments first, secondly, you could have given so many amendments, not talking for every amendment for two minutes, though, exceeding 10, 15, 20 seconds, etc., all of it. So I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204397	The problem is you're sitting there. No, we haven't even touched this amendment yet, you took me a minute. Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204398	You're going into some dialogue with me that's completely against business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204399	I'm on my way because we should keep some normal level of communication. If I'm three hours on my feet, then I have...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204400	Well, you don't need three hours on your feet, you could speak much shorter for each of your points. And you've repeated 500 times the same thing anyway, so I think you could have done it, it's up to you. If you don't want it, you don't want it, I'm not stopping it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204401	Okay, okay. Let's move on then. There's no problem, you think you'll shut me up like that, believe me you won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204402	That's not what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204403	I will endure here as long as it takes because I want as many people to hear what HDZ and Mayor Bandic are like and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204404	She's going to the 78th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204405	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204406	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204407	This is about children's kindergarten in Zagreb, this is Mr. Bukarica quarter in the New Zagreb East, so you get to know the City of Zagreb a little while while you like to listen to it and hear that in the City of Zagreb, regardless of what the big neighborhood is, so Zaprudje is one of the oldest and essentially the first New Zagreb neighborhoods. So when the great mayor of the City of Zagreb, Veseslav Holjevac, decided to bridge Sava, otherwise the liberator of the City of Zagreb, you certainly know who was the first commander of the military city of Zagreb after '45, he later became the mayor of the City of Zagreb and remained remembered as one of the largest mayors who crossed the Sava River and made new neighborhoods and today has a beautiful monument not far from the NSB that just symbolizes it. And one of the first neighborhoods was the town district of Zaprudje, which also has a large kindergarten that also serves in a way that ensures that children from that neighborhood feel safe there and that they are raised together with their parents, but requires a lot of investment and requires that more investment be taken care of, or that Mayor Bandic and Director Lovric invest more money in it. Since this is not the case, given that the HDZ continues to hold Bandic in power and is trying to maintain this criminal power in the City of Zagreb, I also propose that this amendment be accepted, or that we all vote together on him on Monday, or that the representatives on him be made known. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204408	The 79th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204409	It's not accepted from the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204410	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204411	I'm going to the neighborhood next door to "Utrina" kindergarten, so that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204412	We've already crossed the 79th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204413	No, no, this is 79th, so it's a kindergarten, and it's also one of the newly-Greek neighborhoods that also requires certain investments. Otherwise one of the larger neighborhoods in New Zagreb, along with, of course, we will now see other neighborhoods that are there, so there are several facilities in Utrina and what I don't think has been invested in this kindergarten for years, or I don't think, but I'm sure. As it was not invested in most schools and kindergartens in the city of Zagreb, and I hope that those who behave in the city of Zagreb, which is HDZ and Mayor Bandic, are proud of not investing enough in kindergartens and schools. That kindergartens and schools in the city of Zagreb do not all have hot water, that children and schools are especially in the lower part, in the Lower Town, or lower, the older part of Zagreb are being restored to classrooms. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised, so it's easier to set up a job. If the job is up to two hundred thousand kunas, then you can exactly suggest from the city office which company will probably get a job and thus get schools, instead of rebuilding in one year, renovating for many years and three times or two times as much money as it should be. I hope that Mr. Vice President, as a representative of the HDZ, you are proud to support such a party in the city of Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204414	The 80th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204415	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204416	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204417	This is about a kindergarten that has 3 objects. It's usually the neighborhood where I've spent most of my life, it's my neighborhood, here, I say hello, if someone from Travno sees us by accident on TV. What I'd like to tell you here is that just as in Utrina's kindergartens, no matter what these neighborhoods were built in the 1970s, I, I'm pretty sure nothing more significant was invested than that period. There may have been some, certain furniture and some doactic means, but in some other things a lot, for example, carpentry and other things, a lot of these objects are the same as they were 40 years ago. So, I think the most aware of that is basically those who work in these facilities and how hard they work and how hard they do their job, the only thing I can tell them is that I thank them for not being able to work in such conditions. When you don't have the support of your city office, when you have to deal with the minimum resources you have at your disposal, it's really heroic that they manage to keep our children in, I'd say what kind of polite conditions. Since the funds are not enough, since Mayor Bandic and HDZ do not intend to change politics in the city of Zagreb, since they are the closest coalition partners, I must propose this amendment in order to provide additional funds for the education system in the city of Zagreb and ask that it also be voted on Monday at the last meeting of HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204418	81st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204419	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204420	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204421	Thank you very much. This is about the kindergarten of Tratinčica which should also, as we have supported all these kindergartens so far, so should support him. Here's a colleague of Sladolev's, so there's already three of us, Mr. Vice President, slowly, excuse me, and Batinić is here, there's four of us. No one from HDZ, however, is obviously not interested in them. They are interested in keeping Bandić in power as long as possible so that we can share chairs in Plinar and other public enterprises and manage the city of Zagreb non-transparently and possibly share the jobs that are being done throughout the city of Zagreb. It means that this is not how business is overpaid, if it is not for the HDZ-Bandić client organisation that manages the city of Zagreb, believe me, this amendment for the Tratinčić kindergarten would not be necessary either. It's something we all know, it's something we all feel in the city of Zagreb and it's something that needs to be changed urgently. I hope that the citizens will understand that the 5.7 elections do not just decide what will be at the state level, but we decide what will be further in the city of Zagreb. If support is given to the current government, Mayor Bandic can sleep peacefully. Whoever walks wants it, vote for Andrej Plenkovic. Whoever wants it, vote for HDZ. I don't want to, and I'm sure that's not what the vast majority of Zagreb and Zagreb women want, and I'm sure that this change will happen regardless of what HDZ and probably those who are now managing the state think it's not necessary. And you can laugh, Mr. Vice President, but believe me, that's what's gonna happen. Here, I demand a vote on this, this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204422	The 82nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204423	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204424	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204425	It's about Sopot kindergarten. It is also a neighborhood in Novi Zagreb for Mr. Bukarica, across the street from Središće, or nearby, one of the older neighborhoods in Novi Zagreb. Also, there are several facilities owned and hundreds of children kept there. I'm sure they have insufficient equipment and I said in the beginning, one of the previous amendments, unfortunately in the city of Zagreb as a parent, they can testify personally, most of the equipment, toys, they get parents themselves, or they assign after children simply grow up toys, they take them to kindergarten, and that's one solidarity that governments in the city of Zagreb, but which shouldn't be that way because we still pay 18% of the cut. Each one of its salaries stands out hundreds or hundreds or two hundred, three hundred kunas, in order to ultimately have the city to rely, or the city’s institutions, as a rule, on buildings. No, it should not be so, those 10 billion kunas that it does not leak on all sides, that it was not employed by city companies, by city administration, that the mayor Bandic has a little bit of morale about how he behaves, that he must have the HDZ that holds him in power, in the end, we would not all be in such a situation and therefore, I ask that this amendment also, I would very much like to have no need to vote on him, but since, behold, HDZ continues to insist on Bandic, does not give up on Bandic, I ask that this amendment be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204426	83rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204427	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204428	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the children's kindergarten Zrna Zagreb, too, a million kuna provided for that kindergarten. When I look at how things work and how things move weakly and slowly in the city of Zagreb, I can simply say that I am sad. I'm not even angry anymore than how sad I am, so that there's a certain revolution coming out of that sadness, and I realize that even as I feel hundreds and hundreds of our fellow citizens, thousands and thousands of our citizens, and that just in the end it has to end right, that things have to change, and that's why you don't have to give up on this and that's why you don't have to talk about it, and that sometimes you point and go head through the wall, if you think you're fighting for the right thing. So sometimes you have to do something extreme to get people to hear your message. And on that side, I am willing to continue to propose and work and fight, not only for my city but for my fellow citizens and point to things that are not good in the city of Zagreb so that we can change these things together. We have no assistance from HDZ, we have no help from those who allegedly allegedly care about our fellow citizens, and they were not able to make a single earthquake law during this period that has passed since the earthquake, which is 58 days. It would have been good if they had used that time better, it would have been good to finally show that the interests of the citizens are most important to us. The HDZ and Mayor Bandic obviously didn't. The HDZ and Mayor Bandic are interested in milking as much time as they have left in power. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204430	84th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204431	The same is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204432	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204433	Mr. Vice President, how about a little break now, here's three and a half hours past?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204434	So you can take a break any minute, you ask for a break on behalf of the club, you'll get 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204435	No, I think if you gave five minutes, you'd really have to go to... I'd really have to go to the bathroom, I don't know how to explain it differently. [[I don't need a break right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204436	I'm saying, cut your speech short, here, you didn't have to use every time for two minutes and another plus time, you could, and you keep repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204437	Wait, is it possible that we...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204438	And you're always saying the same thing. So, you can, you can cut it short, we could've already finished it. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204439	Okay, so let's move on, thank you very much for the misunderstanding or behavior in a way that you can use your position if you don't do it to me, let's call it a little bit more incoherent. No, it means I can't do my job normally, but if it's necessary, I'll last another two hours, I'll stand here and do what I started in some way, and that's pointing to problems that are in the city of Zagreb and I won't let anyone interfere with me in any way in my right. And that's to say as many times as I want to, in whatever way I want to talk about what's wrong. It may look extreme, but trust me, it doesn't work any other way. In another way, it doesn't work because if it did, then we would listen to our fellow citizens, we would listen to Mr. Reiner, HDZ would have given up Bandic long ago, if there were no HDZ, there would be no Bandic, there would be no Bandic, there would be no HDZ state level, and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204440	The 85th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204441	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204442	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204443	What, 85? Yes, it's about Duga's day care, it's also about a million kunas. [[Intruder: Long.]] And we're about to get to the most interesting part that, I think, is most important, which is the earthquake of endangered objects, to see that at this point, my fellow citizens, not a single kuna, not in the city or in the state budget, is not meant for restoration of schools or kindergartens in the earthquake-affected area. And that's what we also have to point out here. There are 25 objects that we are about to process, to see that the problem is that the state in the state budget did not predict, which is not predicted by the mayor Bandic in the city budget, and this, not giving up, does not want to guarantee the restoration by law, or how it will be renewed in the coming years. Tell me now, everyone who listens, how will the city of Zagreb be restored, how will schools and hospitals be restored if the money in the budget is not foreseen? One hundred million kuna for 42 billion damages. Well, that's impossible. Who are you kidding? You didn't predict anything. You have made nothing possible and do not want to allow the citizens of Zagreb to have the security that the city will be restored. It's a shame and it just needs to change, it needs to show people to stand behind them. I, too, ask that we show the gesture, show the amendments, show the message that we are behind the citizens of the City of Zagreb, that we are behind the children of the City of Zagreb, that we are behind the history and culture of the City of Zagreb, that we will do whatever we can to make sure that the City of Zagreb functions as soon as possible and that all together living in the City of Zagreb will take care that, one day, the City of Zagreb will be what it should be. Unfortunately, in this earthquake, everything went missing in 10 seconds of an earthquake on 22.3. at 6am and the 24th morning it all fell apart. Unfortunately, we have shown that we do not have a city that works, we have shown that we do not have a state that is able to stand behind the City of Zagreb, we have shown that those who should be responsible for the functioning of the City of Zagreb, who should be responsible for the functioning of civil protection, for the crisis situations that we pay them for nothing, that our people don't know how to talk to, that this is all a farce system, that people call civil protection to record there some data that ultimately no one forwards, that citizens organize themselves, to organize groups, here's a colleague from Bad Blue Boys who then jumped in as someone who helps. So there were civil protection, where there was a mayor, where there were services that needed to be helped so that we citizens of the City of Zagreb who pay 18% of the cut finally felt that we had our city behind us. And then we expected that we would have a state behind us, but what, 58 days isn't enough to write a law, 58 days isn't enough to include gas in people's houses, if it's enough for Agrokor to make a five-day law to make those close to HDZ, who are close to Martini Dalic this I'm asking for a vote, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you and ask for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204444	The 86th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204445	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204446	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204447	Here, you see Mr. President how that works, or vice president, I've been saying 2.5 minutes longer than what time it was. Because you who run the session don't die to be focused on me. [[Intruder: Yes.]] And I've been standing here for three and a half hours, not giving me 10 minutes to go to the bathroom. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204448	Uh, shut it down, sorry, but that's all you're saying I have no reason to be focused on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204449	Is that okay, just say it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204450	Uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204451	You don't have me, so I'm talking here, the Rules of Procedure exists, time goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204452	Go ahead, speak up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204453	I just want to show you how hard this is for me to do right now, to work, and you don't give me a five-minute break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204454	It's all my heart that's breaking. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204455	Okay, don't complain if your heart breaks, then let's move on. The 86th Amendment is an amendment relating to the Cvrtak kindergarten in the City of Zagreb and also to separate it from a million kunas so that we also have a certain investment and a better situation for our children in this kindergarten. Finally, I must say that the situation that is likely to continue for the next few months until the new government is formed in the Republic of Croatia is such that nothing should be expected in the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb register is completely empty. So the mayor of Bandic is so picturesquely to say emptyed the register in the City of Zagreb and he is asking the state to delegate his duties. He would now continue to employ citizens to meet the basic needs. What I think we have to do is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204456	Now I'm going to warn you because you used your time, that's what you asked for last time. So are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204457	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204458	87th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204459	The amendment is not accepted as, with an explanation as for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204460	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204461	Excuse me, what amendment? I didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204462	87th Listen, you're not focused, you told me, so now I'm telling you. Focus on your amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204463	Yes, thank you, okay, it is about the adaptation and equipment of Trnorozica Children's kindergarten, also in the amount of millions of kuna and what I want here, especially here, that most likely next month, the question is that the Mayor of Zagreb will pay off the obligations he has not only towards kindergartens and schools, but towards all employees and in the system that includes the City of Zagreb, because the problems with financing are enormous. Debts from the session to the assembly session, in the last session virtual and imagine how illogical that is. So we in the City of Zagreb have a virtual session of the assembly instead of having a session like this where the representatives will say on behalf of the citizens what is bothering them. The 150 million kuna mayor Bandic has done his duties at the virtual session of the assembly, where people virtually voted, where arguments could not be openly faced, nor could anything be done to see whether this was necessary in the end and how that money would be spent. Unfortunately, that money won't go to education, kindergartens, schools, that money won't go to what citizens need. This money will probably go to patching up certain holes and what is the most regrettable money that the City of Zagreb spends neatly gets they and they do not have to wait for months as kindergartens and schools, those who do overpaid jobs, who draw money from the city budget and who, unfortunately, for years thus build their business empires and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204464	88th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204465	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204466	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204467	This is about Little Prince's kindergarten, and I also want to say, this is a particularly dear kindergarten because it's about kindergarten in the city district of Maksimir, which I'm pretty close to, and on that side I think it's a shame this, that I have to be in HS in a city that has 10 billion kunas to propose amendments to kindergartens and schools, but that's unfortunately Zagreb's reality. And once again I'm going to tell you, those who need to get the money, they get that money and they get it in advance, sometimes by advances, I'm talking about those who do the work and who are properly overpaid for their jobs. I'm sure no one's waited a day for a situation like that on a wire in Sljemen. There was no problem. That's probably where it finally paid off not on the same day, but probably the same second the bill came in. So some don't have money problems, get and collect their services, some don't have a problem with their work, if you need to charge more than you should. When I watch that wire jump from 150 to 200 million, first 350 to 500, so now who knows how much it's going to end, probably 800, then I understand why there's no money for kindergartens and why there's no money for schools. Why can't schools be restored? Because services are overpaid much more than they should actually be paid for, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204468	89th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204469	It's also not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204470	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to tell you that this, if this was about the adaptation of children's kindergarten in Maksimir, is a children's kindergarten Maksimir, also, in the area of the city council of Maksimir, in the Antun Augustinčić Aleja. I'm also quite familiar with the situation there. The problem we have in almost all kindergartens in the city of Zagreb and there is and I think the citizens of the city of Zagreb are really wondering why they keep quiet about it. Which is why I don't speak clearly and I get a lot of people who are employed in these facilities and I just can't figure out what the mayor and his city administration priorities are. I can't understand that the money for political corruption and trade has, I can't understand that there's money for 30 million kuna monuments to build companies with interest in the mayor, and there's no money to rebuild Zagreb schools and kindergartens. You can't explain it to anyone, so you can't explain it to me either, and probably not all the MPs who here in the assembly are listening to it right now can't understand it. What I think is inadmissible is that we who deal with politics in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which party we come from, must not deal with such a situation. It's amazing to me that the HDZ people know about everything I'm saying and that they're still letting Bandic do whatever he wants and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204472	The 90th Amendment of Representative Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204473	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204474	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204475	The same thing, I think it is also worth certain investments, i.e. certain investment in equipment and certain things that could change in the city quarter. Money, of course, is never enough, or money is not there because things are being spent on the wrong, money is being spent on the wrong things. Services are overpaid, clients in the city administration and city companies are hired. It's being spent on amazing things, here, people need to know that, for example, during COVID, that this crisis, when it shouldn't have come out of the houses that virtual council meetings of local committees were being held, one of our council members in, in the area of the city council of Treshnevka-North, warned that it wasn't normal to get money to answer to an email. So the members of the local boards were compensated, that's the mayor's practice, and that's what tens and tens of millions of kunas are spent a year, so that based on the virtual session held, they get compensation. Since these things are spent on tens of millions of kunas each year, since these things are spent on the money that our fellow citizens pay through the cut of the highest in the Republic of Croatia, of course there is not enough money in the city budget to meet the basic needs for the education system, i.e. for kindergartens owned by the city of Zagreb, and therefore I ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204476	The 91st Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204477	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204478	Since the session has changed, Mr. Sanader, can we set a break of 10 minutes? I mean, if you're already changing, you're sitting, you're surfing, you've got nothing to do, then it would be correct to give me a break after four and a half hours that stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204479	You can give up some amendments so that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204480	Okay, then let's move on. Thank you very much. You don't have to give me a break. You do not have to give me a break, the 91st Amendment, is about the kindergarten of Vrbik in the City of Zagreb in the area of the City of Trnje, which is also intended to be invested in it, given that the City of Zagreb does not meet the necessary preconditions that should be met in order for the education system to have the best possible conditions in its kindergartens and schools. [[Intruder: Amendment 92]] Unfortunately, this is and the amount of the million kuna is 1,000 and 10,000 times smaller than the city budget has money. Imagine, here I propose a million kuna per kindergarten, 10,000 times the city budget has more money, and the City of Zagreb fails to meet these needs. I ask Mayor Bandic, the head of Lovrić what they spend money on, what they spend money on, and how they spend money? It's a laugh, it's funny, it's supported by HDZ, in the same way the government in the vast majority of counties should stop these counties as soon as possible and do everything in order for Croatia to finally be a normal country. That is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment on Monday to be declared by all MPs and MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204481	The 92nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204482	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204483	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204484	Thank you very much. It's about the investment and adaptation of the Vladimir Nazor kindergarten. The symbolism is because Vladimir Nazor was one of the Reverends of the President of the Croatian Parliament, meaning ZAVNOH President, who was on behalf of the national government in '45. the year came to the City of Zagreb when the city was released and took responsibility for some way the Republic of Croatia and on this side its bust stands in the Croatian Assembly and it is in some way very important that children know that this great Croatian poet from Brač deserves that and the kindergarten that they are going to, not only him, but primarily for the sake of children to be in better shape and that in some way we try to make those millions of kunas that I have proposed to use here in the best possible way. In those million kunas, Mayor Bandic dusts out of his reserve like this, we saw that he spent all the money that was otherwise intended for crisis situations. So, because he spent money from a reserve that was meant for crisis situations, unfortunately our fellow citizens didn't have spot support during the earthquake, the cranes were overpaid, the organization was nothing, people were helpless for days, weeks, and now we see for months. On the other hand, I am sure that all those who listen to us right now know what I'm talking about and know that Mayor Bandic has the money at his disposal not properly but quite the opposite in a totally wrong way and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204485	All right. Amendment 93 does not comply with the Rules of Procedure and the Budget Act Because you asked for a $3 million cut, and here you have reduced the million. [[I'm sorry, what do you mean?]] The 94th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras. [[- Yeah, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204486	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that it has been made before amendments 45 to 92.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204487	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204488	Thank you very much. This is about the squirrel's kindergarten, and it's also an investment of a million kunas, and what I can point out here is that I've simply decided to do towards everyone or try to get close to the people who are listening to us now because we're already getting closer to the end of all of Zagreb's kindergartens, and we're going to get to a kindergarten that I especially like, soon, where my kids went, to see that the situation is similar in more or less of all kindergartens. They're all in the same trouble, they're all in the same trouble, they're getting together hard everywhere, and they just didn't deserve it. The same thing is with schools, the same thing is with all the institutions that should be primarily calmed down or where priorities should be what's most important. So, the priority must be schools, kindergartens, and hospitals, or medical institutions that treat our elderly fellow citizens. Of course, it would be good if we had certain institutions not being built for years, for example retirement homes are something unfortunately in Croatia and especially in the City of Zagreb very little is done and our older citizens are most often in big problems. They are very and overcrowded, and when it is necessary to do it in quality and lead then it is usually when it comes to HDZ and Bandic there politically frames and eventually the dipl. archaeologists are involved at the head of the Retirement House in Split. So that kind of thing should finally be stopped and removed from Croatian politics, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204489	The 95th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204490	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as said for the previous amendment [[/Intruder: What amendment do you pardon?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204491	95.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204492	95th, this is about the adaptation and equipment of Marinić Children's kindergarten also in the amount of one million kuna. I was just talking about the chronic lack of certain institutions and I have to thank here all the people who are employed in the system and education in the City of Zagreb, pre-school education in the City of Zagreb, in the social care system in the City of Zagreb, in the institutions of the City of Zagreb that care about our older citizens mean retirement homes, in hospitals because without these people who make up for the rare and lack of funds there would be nothing. On this side, people must be aware that we owe as citizens of this city the gratitude of people who work very hard, who sacrifice themselves for us and who, in some ways, together with us, are, for example, when I talk about preschool education or school education together raising our children. It is not a simple job, they work in terribly difficult conditions and they themselves are in great uncertainty about what they will and how it will be because they do not know for themselves, they are not sure whether their founder in this case the City of Zagreb is behind them, when objects will be restored, shocks and traumas will pass along with us parents and children who are in these schools. So, on the other hand, if there weren't those people, believe me, these problems would have been expressed 10 times more. On this side, too, it can be a shame for the mayors Bandic and Lovrić to turn the City of Zagreb into what our education system has turned into. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204493	96th Amendment of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204494	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204496	Thank you very much. This is about Children's Daycare, otherwise all these kindergartens have several, several objects that are quite often on multiple locations, these are already kindergartens that are located in an earthquake-affected area. Many of them are in trouble, many of them damaged objects. It is a shame that the City of Zagreb does not currently have a single kuna secured for the restoration of these facilities. So, the City of Zagreb owns these facilities, the City of Zagreb has to rebuild these facilities, it has to be a priority, it has to be something that's already started. Unfortunately, the City of Zagreb has done nothing, the City of Zagreb, and I will take special care of it and I am looking forward to the city assembly, which is reportedly 9.6. I hope there will be no virtual city assembly again, that HDZ will again cover Bandic in the way he is covered by it now at this session, to see how much money in rebalancing will be foreseen for the restoration in the earthquake of damaged objects. Among them and kindergartens, between them and schools, not to mention health homes, retirement homes or institutions owned by the city, we now come to theatres and museums and all those institutions that the city owns. It's practically sad to watch, say, Gavellu Theatre or Comedy Theatre, the institutions of this city where you simply don't know when and how it will be restored and when it will be reopened. Such a situation is unfortunately also with kindergartens owned by the City of Zagreb and therefore I have to propose these amendments and therefore I propose this amendment and ask for it to be declared on Monday by the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204497	Amendment 97, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204498	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204499	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204500	This is about an amendment for the equipment and adaptation of the kindergarten Version. So it's a kindergarten in the city district of Lower Town, a kindergarten that's very well known since my children went into it, which was badly damaged in an earthquake that took place on 22.3. at 6 o'clock and 24 minutes, which has earned that we already have a clear plan in which they will be restored, restored, when children will be able to start again, whether someone will start working on it or not. At this point there are no answers, there are no answers to how much money will be invested and how to invest in this kindergarten and whether we will allow the children to return to the facility they are used to, and of course the employees who work there to work in the facility where they have worked so far. So, we do not have the answers to these questions, as if the City of Zagreb is not taking care of it or on that side, it would be good if some answers were sent to the congregation of 9.6. Since there are no such answers and I doubt that there will be others but in the Croatian Assembly this amendment and try at least to secure minimum funds to put them into office as soon as possible, put them into office as soon as possible of this object or objects damaged by the earthquake and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment on Monday as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204501	Amendment to the 98th Representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204502	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204503	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204504	Thank you very much. This is about adaptation and equipment of the Kresnice kindergarten, and I think it is also one of the objects that needs to be further invested, especially because it was an object that was in the earthquake in the part of the city that was quite affected by the earthquake, it is about the Krajiška street in the town district of Lower Town. Of course, there's more of the victim's school, but I'm going to talk about it a little bit later, Frankopan Elementary School, which has suffered some serious damage, has a red sticker, and on the other hand, I think it's going to take a lot more money to separate it from these million kunas than I anticipated for the Kresnik kindergarten. On this side, it would be good instead of having the Vice-President Lovric and Mayor Bandic deal with me and calling me when I warn about these problems to start dealing with problems that are in the pre-school education and school education portfolio in the city of Zagreb and to finally start fulfilling their obligations within the deadlines that they are and should be, which is that the bills are paid immediately, to raise the amounts provided for by pupils and children who are in kindergartens and to finally do everything in our power to keep our children safe, especially during this crisis and the earthquakes that hit the city of Zagreb, and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204505	Amendment of the 99th Representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204506	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204507	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about children's kindergarten Source located in Gjure Deželić, so it is also, Street in Donji Grad where it is also necessary to allocate certain funds to equip the kindergarten, i.e. to make the situation in kindergarten better. Here we go soon after two more amendments, these are all the usual, thank you very much. These are all the amendments that are related to kindergartens in the Lower City and on the other hand these damages, especially from kindergartens in older buildings, are somewhat more pronounced and require faster adaptation or faster investment. I hope that during the vote on these amendments, MPs will take this into account, or that they will allow, as soon as possible, some of the kindergartens that are damaged in the earthquake itself to be put into operation. If I were in a position in the city of Zagreb in Milan Bandić, I would explain to people at the beginning when and what will be renewed and I would not put people in suspense. For example, people in the city of Zagreb today have no idea where their children will go to school at 9. i.e., they don't know when their facilities will be restored and whether they will be restored at all, in what way they will be restored, so there are so many unknowns and so many things should be known and so many things should be taken into account, unfortunately the city administration doesn't take care of it at all, and therefore, autumn proposed this many amendments and therefore I propose this amendment and ask that MPs be made clear on Monday, because I think they should do so in order to have as much a quality budget as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204509	The 100th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204510	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204511	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204512	This is the 100th Jubilee. Are we gonna take a little break now? Here, it's been nearly five hours now. Mr. Vice President. Can we take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204513	You give up, you give up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204514	No, no, I'm not giving up. I'm just asking you after 100 amendments to take a break because five hours...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204515	Well, only if you're gonna give up on some to...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204516	Well, then I won't give up, so let's move on. Okay, this is about kindergarten The future is also, in the area of Lower City on Haulik Street, and this kindergarten is specific because I went to it. So the kindergarten that I left 40 years ago and believe me, I'm pretty sure there's nothing too much invested in it ever since. Otherwise, oh, sorry, no, no, mine's Mihanovic's. This is kindergarten up. But, okay, Haulikova, Haulika and Mihanovic, I went to Mihanovic, but it's the same object, so it's the same kindergarten, a kindergarten called the Future, no. So mine was in Mihanovic, and the other object is in Haulik. But, I mean, 40 years ago when I left there, I'm convinced that nothing special was invested in it, and in some way, here he is, symbolically the last kindergarten for which I suggested the amendment, we still have a kindergarten of Sparks, and then we'll move on to damaged facilities in the city of Zagreb, and I want all citizens to hear how many objects and how much money it takes to restore these objects and to get those money needed as soon as possible in the budget to have the opportunity to go into that renovation. Since there are no laws, given that there is no money in the budget, I doubt that's what's going to happen, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204517	The 101st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204518	It is also not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204519	Thank you very much, here's after 5 hours of discussion, or the interpretation of the amendment, and we've come to the last kindergarten for which I suggested the amendment. It is the kindergarten of Iskrica which is also located, and it is necessary to invest in it some money so that on the other hand, when we talk about kindergartens, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and tell all the parents in the city of Zagreb that this situation they have in kindergartens is not what they should have and that we simply should not agree as parents to a situation that refuses in Zagreb kindergartens and that we have an understanding of employees there because they are not guilty. The guilty and responsible are solely those who manage this money, which we are paying in the city budget and who manage on behalf of citizens with facilities in pre-school education. Mayor Bandic and head Lovric are guilty. Our partners are essentially our aunts and kindergarten educators, together we maintain some level in these facilities, equipment and all the things that children should have there and once again I want to get in touch with them, and I promise everyone that we will do everything to change the situation as soon as possible, in order to make it a prerequisite for us to change HDZ and Bandic. So that doesn't work without it. It is a prerequisite for us to move forward in Zagreb because HDZ and Bandic have cemented us, Plenkovic and Bandic have cemented us and they have weighed us around our feet to make the city function normally. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204520	The 102nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204521	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to preparing the legislative framework for the post-quake reconstruction system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in final activities on the launch of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the post-quake reconstruction project and strengthening the response to COVID-19 in the Republic of Croatia, which would ensure urgent investment or intervention for the reconstruction and reconstruction of education and health institutions of 200m euros. In addition, the final phase also includes procedures related to the application for the EU solidarity fund, which also expects substantial funds. A document on rapid damage assessment and support is currently being developed to support the withdrawal of funds and all other available sources, i.e. the EU Solidarity Fund, international lenders and donor conferences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204522	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I'd like to ask you, here, I've sat down a little bit, and I'd ask you for the secretary of state to let him know that it's probably not easy for him either, the man's standing here for five hours, so, just give a man a break at least a little bit of stretching his legs or he sits down, to rest himself, this really isn't human anymore in what way we're working. Can you do that? If you don't want to do it for me, can you at least do it for him?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204524	And he wasn't looking for a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204525	He didn't ask? Does she have to look? I mean, that's not funny, I'm serious right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204526	Do you have an explanation for the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204527	Well, man five minutes, five hours already standing here. So come on, show some solidarity and compassion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204528	So you show some solidarity, pull these amendments, so... solve the problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204529	But this is real, this is really outrageous. I apologize to you, Mr. Secretary of State. It is not in my power, but look how insolent and insolent it is that this is how the Vice President of the Parliament humiliates both you and me and not that 10 minutes after 5 hours to rest. So never a session lasts like this in a piece, and especially when two people de facto stand for five hours and talk to each other and explain, this never happened, so this is something that's still invisible, and it's amazing to me, though, probably because it's about people who don't even have a shred of compassion to do something like this. So the 102nd amendment is about the restoration and arrangement of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, we all saw how much he suffered in the earthquake. The state doesn't take care of that facility at all, we haven't heard or know in what way it will be renewed, and so I propose in the amendment that it is planned and started to rebuild, thank you very much and I want a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204530	Thank you. The 104th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204531	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204532	Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204533	Like this. So this is also about, this is about the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, which has also been injured, we have seen all the pictures from Shalate. After a few days after the earthquake, I think that college is one of, I would say the best in the city of Zagreb, not only by quality but also by how much we need it now. So in this situation, we see for ourselves how important it is to have quality doctors, how important it is that we have quality epidemiologists and on that side I think it should be clear to all of us in the Republic, and that's why I'm surprised and I don't know how the state hasn't yet sent a message that even when it starts to rebuild that college. So that's why no money has already been planned, which is why you can't see it, which is why the health minister who reads every day at 2 p.m. how many people he's been sick, how much he's recovered, and how unfortunately he's gone. It does not say one day at that press conference when the Medical Faculty will be restored, when and how much money will be invested in it, when it will be invested in surrounding hospitals around that school in Shalata, which there are many, when Petrova street where our births are being restored, when Traum in Draskovic will be restored, when all those facilities that have suffered in the earthquake will be restored. That's what we're interested in. So we don't care now that a man reads us data every day and that after 50 or 60 days, those data seem more or less uniform every day. So now we're interested in when life will finally become normal and on that side, these are the answers we expect from the Minister of Health, and these are the answers we expect from the state and those in the country who decide. Since there is no renewal and there is no planned money in the budget for the renewal of the Medical Faculty, I have proposed and ask for a vote Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204534	Thank you. 105th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras 105 [[/Intruder: 104.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[No, no, 104, this is, yeah. Look how difficult it is, Mr. Vice President. After 20 amendments, you're confused, and I'm already at 100 and something and I'm standing here talking.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204535	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendment refers to the 5th high school as well as the previous amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the draft amendment 102, i.e. the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204537	Thank you very much. It is the 5th high school in the city of Zagreb on Klaic Street, which also died in an earthquake. I spent a lot of time there as a high school kid. Although, I didn't go to that school but I did go to 10th high school, but I spent a lot of time at 5th for a prosaic reason because she had a good cafeteria. And now, unfortunately, that school has suffered a lot and there is no answer from the city when and how to be restored. Since it is one of the oldest secondary schools in the city of Zagreb, one of the most quality high school in the city of Zagreb, the question that I think is justified when and how the city will begin to rebuild the facility. That is why I think it would be necessary to invest or invest some money from the State budget because it is evident that the City of Zagreb has no money, that the Mayor of Bandić and HDZ have spent all the money that the Zagrebs have and that they would now try to make more debts to the City of Zagreb, issue bonds I don't know how many years and in this way finance their financial escapades that we watch every day. I think the State budget should invest in this facility or in these facilities that died in the earthquake, now there will be a few more. And I think that's what students, parents and all those associated with schools in the City of Zagreb deserve. Since there is no money in the budget, since it is not planned in the city either, in the state I think that this amendment must ensure and ask MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to do so because it is only the right thing to do. Thank you very much, and Monday I request a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204538	105th Amendment of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204539	It shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204540	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204541	It is being restored and arranged, the arrangement of the school for nurses in the City of Zagreb who also suffered in the earthquake seems to be marked with a yellow label and that certain investments need to be made, in order to bring things back to normal as soon as possible. The story is similar to other amendments, there is no money in the city budget, Mayor Bandic and Director Lovric entertained their legal problems probably do not care too much about the education system, judicial problems primarily. On the other hand, and those money that should be given in regular, technical school maintenance do not give in time, late, directors manage in all possible ways. Unfortunately, such a situation in Zagreb is not since yesterday, and it probably won't end so quickly, so I think we should propose this amendment in the budget to help bring things back to normal as soon as possible. And unfortunately I see that the same thing that I see at the level of the City of Zagreb, which is that the HDZ has the support of Mayor Bandic with its hands and shares with him non-transparent authority I see it here and here, means there will probably be no voting for these amendments, I see that none is accepted, I see that the agreement is to go to elections as soon as possible with Bandic because there is probably a counter-service that will support the budget rebalance in the city assembly. All that says one thing I said at the beginning. The vote for HDZ is the vote for Bandic and the vote for Bandic is the vote for HDZ. If you want any change in Zagreb, do not vote for HDZ and Bandic. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204542	The 106th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204543	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204544	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204545	This is the 106th Amendment on the restoration and arrangement of the University of Health in Zagreb also damaged in the earthquake and on the other hand, of course, it is necessary to plan money that is not planned for any single facility. There are 25 objects marked with yellow and red label in Zagreb. None of the only financial assets are planned or secured. On the other hand, what I have to say is that these stories we're hearing here from a government official who says that, I don't know how the funds will be found, that they will be provided by European funds, by European funds, look, there's no sign of that yet. And instead of the state showing what's important to her, instead of the state going first, to say here we're going to give this school a million, we're going to give that 5 million for that facility, we're going to give Petrova 10 million for the hospital, they let the citizens do it. The people who are in the Palcic Association have raised 5 million kunas. It shows you how dysfunctional this country is, how dysfunctional this government is, how citizens turn to themselves. It's something we just can't accept and we're not happy with, and if we have to talk about it, to when we have to talk, to the end, to the point of being exhausted. So we can't give up and we can't deal with this situation. These people are not there for themselves, I mean Bandic, HDZ and Plenkovic, they are there for you and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204546	The 107th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204547	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204548	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204549	I'm sorry, I forgot the exact explanation. Can you read it to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204550	Sure. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final, in addition to the creation of a legislative framework to create this legislative framework for systematic action on post-quake recovery, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final activities on the launch of the procedure for the conclusion of the contract of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the project titled ‘Renovation project after the earthquake and strengthening of the response to Covid-19 in the Republic’, which would ensure urgent interventions for the reconstruction and reconstruction of educational and health institutions of EUR 200 million. In addition, at the final stage there are several other projects with a application for the Solidarity Fund which I mentioned to you, a rapid assessment of the damages, the International Credit Institution Solidarity Fund and the Donor Conference. Here, briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204551	Thank you very much. So this is about restoration and orderly XVIII. High school in Zagreb and I have to say that more and more people are coming to me through social networks and asking me to comment and some things to see how many countries and cities are not working on the earthquake. So the city is blocked right now, and you can all testify that you're coming to Mark's square, you're just going through the city center, but it's not just downtown. So people are telling me why, for example, Savica or Zapruda doesn't cut the grass. So people just see that the city doesn't work every day, there are problems everywhere. Or the question that's now being asked. We all remember the disaster in Gunya, the state if it couldn't pass the law in 58 days now, and how it was then to pass the law and make sure the citizens know they're safe. Which is why, let's put it this way, which is why in this situation a huge elemental disaster in Zagreb in 58 days was not possible to pass the law, and then when there was a huge flood in Gunja we passed the law in a short time and started to rebuild. Why are Zagreb and Zagreb citizens second row? What's the HDZ experiencing them for? Why is that? Can anyone answer me? Why is it not possible to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb, and why is it not possible to pass this law? And on the other hand, the question of who will refund the money to citizens who have already invested 100,000 kunas in chimneys and the original reconstruction that started working in the City of Zagreb because people cannot wait, can't wait for the state to start. I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204552	The 108th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204553	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as set out above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204554	Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204555	Thank you very much. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204556	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204557	Thank you very much. This is about rebuilding and setting up schools for classical ballet in the City of Zagreb and what I must point out here is that the situation for Zagreb and Zagreb is humiliating about the restoration after the earthquake. So HDZ humiliated the City of Zagreb and humiliated Zagreb and Zagreb, and that Zagreb colleagues and colleagues will not forgive you. You'll see it in the election. You have made such a splash to the citizens of the City of Zagreb you told them that it does not matter, that Zagreb is not important, that our schools, that the hospitals in which citizens from all over Croatia are being treated, means that it is the place where citizens from all over Croatia are being treated, which in some way should be the centre of health in the Republic of Croatia, you have done nothing, there is no signal. You gave 100 million kuna in the 140 billion kuna budget. You've found 100 million kunas in your budget. And that's what the Zagreb and Zagreb women should say is enough. The secretary of state here explains that there will be donor conferences asking for money from the EU. Hey, I'm asking you what you've given now? You gave 100 million kunas of 140 billion. Well, you gave me more for not knowing what, what HDZ needed than what you gave for the disaster that took place in the City of Zagreb. You humiliated the City of Zagreb and Zagreb and Zagreb. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204558	The 109th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204559	Amanda is not accepted for the same reason as already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204560	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204561	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment relating to the restoration and arrangement of the School of Applied Art and Design, in the Market of Marshal Tito in the City of Zagreb, not far from the HNK, which is one of the most famous and cultic schools in the City of Zagreb, unfortunately it was just as hard to forget in the earthquake of 22.3 this year which we will not, no one who has been in Zagreb or felt it for a long time. It means time 6,24 in the morning and date 22.3. We will not forget how the Mayor Bandic and HDZ treat us who live in Zagreb and how long it takes to return the normal situation to Zagreb and how long it takes for the citizens of the City of Zagreb to get any help and message, none of it will be forgotten. I don't know what you're hoping for in this election in the City of Zagreb. You think the citizens will stand behind you after you gave them a shower in a way that you have not passed the law, you have not made a quality proposal that could be discussed, here today is the one that is forced after a certain period put into the procedure so that the Law on Reconstruction can be discussed, probably that law will never see the light of the day or will not enter the Croatian Parliament and we will not adopt it like that. So what you did today is also a shame. You gave only for yourself this law in such a public debate that you could say that you did something, and you did nothing to the ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, and that is why the Zagrebans will not forgive you, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204562	The 110th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204563	He doesn't accept the reasons we mentioned before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204564	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204565	Thank you very much. Here, after five and a half hours, we still don't have the right to pause, not me, not the Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President? I don't know if you heard what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204566	You have the right to give up, always.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204567	I'm not giving up, I'm famous for that, but I don't know if there's any compassion and normality to give us after five-and-a-half hours of standing and talking to take a break. We don't have the right to take a break? Mr. Vice President? So I asked if we had the right to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204568	I suggest you give up the amendment so we can all move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204569	All right, let's move on. So in 110th, the 110th Amendment refers to the reconstruction and arrangement of the hotel tourist school located in Frankopanska Street in the City of Zagreb, where significant funds should also be invested, given that the building was badly injured. It is located in the immediate vicinity and theatre "Gavella", the cultural theatre of Zagreb, and I think it would be normal if at this moment the City of Zagreb had already planned certain funds and started to rebuild that school and, and, and, the theatre "Gavalla", unfortunately none of them happened, nor on the other hand, and I must propose this amendment and appeal to all MPs in HS to vote on Monday, because it is obvious that the City of Zagreb will not be able to do so and in a way that would help the City of Zagreb this would be easier, and HDZ would at least partially wash its unclean conscience in a way that, supported by the mayor Bandic. So, at least we'd wash up a little bit of Bandic's support if we accepted this amendment. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204570	111th Amendment, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204571	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204572	This is about the restoration and arrangement of Brune Busic's school home in the City of Zagreb, which also suffered in the earthquake. The situation was, as I said earlier, that the City of Zagreb had no plans at all to rebuild from the earthquake, the state had planned 100 million kunas of 42 billion potential damage and so much, and here is how much HDZ stood behind the citizens of the City of Zagreb, zero commas or 25 prominences, and now it's been a long time, so it's hard for me to calculate this one out of my head, but it's negligible support, it's not support at all, it's humiliation. You humiliated the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb was never a city that begged and a city that was kneeling before anyone, but this thing to HDZ The City of Zagreb will never forget. You had money and you have money to give for the pirate agency used by Minister Beroš to work his picture, for that there is money, it is no problem to pay. How much did Beroš give for the agency?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204573	I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204574	Look at, at, at, at the portals. That's what money is for, it's not a problem to pay to be convinced of the infallibility of a man who tells us every day how infected they are, how cured they are. Unfortunately, for everything that needs money, there is no money, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204575	The 112st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204576	As before... similar. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204577	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204578	Thank you very much. This is a school called OŠ "Miroslav Krleža" in the City of Zagreb, the oldest school in the City of Zagreb, 190. She celebrated last Friday, a week ago, 190. The school celebrated. I am proud of that school and would be proud of, the city and the state if they had come and looked at, any of them, I think of those who are responsible, Prime Minister Plenkovic or Mayor Bandic, although I can hardly be proud of them, but come on, he would have partly forgiven them if they had come and looked at what happened to that school. In the cathedral went, Bozanic was promised help, okay, let it be restored, I don't mind, but there must be a school priority. It must not be restored, it must not be unrenewed OS "Miroslav Krleža", the oldest school in the City of Zagreb. Why didn't Bandic come to see school? Why didn't he look at those classrooms and the ceiling that almost collapsed? As he invested money in that school, lucky it wasn't Monday or Tuesday, maybe any kid would get hurt. So much security in our schools in the City of Zagreb and so much about 10 billion kunas and investing in infrastructure in the City of Zagreb education, that parents must fear that the child will be in school when there is an earthquake or not. They can be ashamed and we ask that all these schools be restored structurally so that they are secure from the earthquake, all schools that are damaged and all schools that are in the lower city of older, older construction, so I ask for a vote on this amendment to ensure “Miroslav Krleža” 10 million kuna so that the school starts with work and normal life as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204579	The 113st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204580	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204581	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204582	Thank you very much. Here it is, this is about a project that I'm asking to be introduced into the Ministry of Science and Education as a new position. It is the arrangement and reconstruction of the OS “A.G. Matoš," also in 10 million, out of 10 million kuna and to try to show that all the objects that have been killed in the City of Zagreb must be restored in such a way that our children are safe there when they go back to school. I don't want to think at all about having a more devastating earthquake than what happened, that our children are at school, that I want them to be safe and to reduce as much as possible the risk of a situation that could lead to injury or impaired health of any child in those schools. Schools in the City of Zagreb were not invested for years, and what was invested, you will see from the upper city high school which also received a red label, ha invested 10 years ago and not a little, in the roof, in the structure and what was done? Nothing. It crashed again and eventually the school was unable to work. Because those who work don't think about students, don't think about school, but think about how to get their playmates and interest groups to get jobs and the more money they make, that's their interest, that's the interest of HDZ and Bandic, and that's why there's no interruptions between HDZ and Bandic in the City of Zagreb, they're beautiful, they take money too well from the city budget, and they do this together. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204583	Amendment 114, MP Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204584	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204585	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204586	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204587	And it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204588	And I can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204589	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204590	So, all this stuff you're saying and what I mentioned would just add when, I like what you said about, about schools that should be restored in a way that will be staticly strong tomorrow, and that doesn't mean overnight, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204591	Yes, I agree with you, it's not overnight, but, but the funds need to be allocated to send a message to the citizens at all that, that it's moving into some renewal because there's no message for any of these 25 objects, the citizens have no security. And if I didn't talk about hundreds and thousands of apartments in the City of Zagreb and tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who are not in their apartments at the moment, who are out of their apartments, who are waiting to return, to start any renovations, who have already invested hundreds of millions of their kunas, until the city and state have invested nothing yet, zero have invested. Of the 140 billion that the state has and of the 10 billion that the City of Zagreb has, zero has invested, and not only have they not invested, and that the citizens had to invest their money with the building manager, but also this building manager, public firm, the state-owned utility of GSK Zagreb, which manages 70% of the buildings in the City of Zagreb, has not been capacitated to organise the renovation, to organize the cranes, so that the city is not practically closed for 2 months. One of those same cranes walks around town and three times the same road closes. Not the organization as much as possible. And so I ask that people be sent a message of security, that people are told that through this amendment something will be restored, but HDZ does not adopt anything, HDZ is unable to show citizens that it is minimal with them, HDZ is not minimal, but is maximum with Bandic, it is its public and without Bandic there is no HDZ, and there is no Bandic without HDZ. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204592	The 115th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204593	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204594	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204595	Since I forgot to mention in the preceding amendment, this is here, in this amendment on OS "Jordanovac", and in the previous amendment, I was talking about the OS "Vugrovec-Kasina" which suffered a lot in the earthquake, and I also have to point out here once more before we end up with the amendments because we are approaching the end, that I especially have empathy and compassion with people who are, who are in the edges of the city. So, not only are they out of houses but they just don't know the same thing as the ones in the center right now, but they're much less talked about, and unfortunately, the media is interesting because the city center is always more interesting, I don't know when they're coming back and how they're going to go back to their homes. Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic visited the rural parts of the city once, Markusevic, Markusevic, Dankovec, Kasina, meaning those who are deeply affected by the earthquake. After that one tour, that was it. I guess that's where the lines went. And if not, there was no need to tell people there another message that they would stand behind them and that they would try to do whatever they could to normalize their lives as soon as possible because people were literally out of anything overnight. And it's amazing to me, this insensitiveness that this government shows to its citizens, which the City of Zagreb shows to its citizens. And that is why I ask that this amendment also be voted on Monday or that the MPs support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204596	The 116th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204597	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204598	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204599	Thank you very much. This amendment is about the "Ivan Filipovića" OS in Zagreb, where I also foresee an investment of 10 million kuna, also not only in restoring damage but also in additional things to be done in all schools. I just said a few amendments ago how it's done in the City of Zagreb. So, you have a school and you have classes and then instead of having the school restored all over the summer, let's say woodwork or windows etc., it doesn't go like that, but it goes one year one class or two classes, how much it costs up to 200 thousand kuna, of course with a 50% margin, and then next year the next two classes. It never goes more than 200 grand. Why isn't there over 200 grand? That's what people in the education office in the City of Zagreb know. It doesn't work because more than 200 grand has to go to such purchases, and up to £200,000 doesn't go to anything, but you pick out who's going to work for you, and that way we pay 30, 40, 50% more price than we should, and it's slowly being restored, the city schools are being restored more slowly. And that's why I suggested additional funds to invest in all these schools that I mentioned earlier. Those who have suffered greatly to restore them thoroughly, and I do not give up on them to be thoroughly restored. No patching ala Bandic and no patching that would put our children's health at risk tomorrow. These schools must be thoroughly structurally restored and these schools must be as solid as stone if a new earthquake happens by chance. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204600	The 117th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204601	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204602	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204603	Thank you very much. This is about OS "I.G. The blacksmith’. Also suggested, this one also, I suggest the same 10 million kuna. The same thing as in other schools, I think it's clear to everyone that without a thorough, thorough recovery of earthquake-damaged schools can't move forward in Zagreb as far as the education system is concerned. I think we should take the chance now and do as much as we can. So a thorough renovation of all these facilities not only cosmetics as it has usually been done so so far and using these years and a few days, miss out perhaps in these schools and next school year, try to sort of quality care in other schools, but when they get back in 2021. These schools must be examples, they must be made in the best possible way, and those schools must be an example of how other schools still in the City of Zagreb will be restored, which may not have been killed because they were lucky that the force may have been in another direction of the earthquake, but any new earthquake can cause some problems again. So this year should be used to prepare ourselves in the best way possible for a new situation and to do whatever is in our power so that this kind of damage never happens again, especially in case children are not in schools when an earthquake could happen and so I ask this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204604	Thank you. 118th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204605	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204606	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204607	Thank you very much. That, that's 118, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204609	This is about an amendment that I predicted would also invest 10 million kunas in OS in Chucherje. This one where the school is also significantly damaged and I think that, I think, it's a school that's in the rural part of the city, so it's a school that was near the epicenter of the earthquake and it's also hurt and it needs to be restored as soon as possible because I think it's possible because especially the thorny area on the slopes of the Medvednica, the epicenter was in Markusevec and, and practically everything that people are saying about that science, they're saying that the earthquake can happen now, and it can happen in 100 years. Now, in order to prevent possible new damages and possible exposure to the health of children going to those schools, I think we need to make a quality, quality basis and how, and we need to ensure that we are not as fortunate as now that the earthquake was on Sunday mornings at 6 and 24, but that children must be sure if such a tragedy happens by accident or disaster happens again, and therefore I propose this amendment and ask MPs and MPs in HS to support it and to vote on Monday when the government has not already accepted my proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204610	The 119th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204611	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as said for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204612	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204613	The 119th amendment is an amendment relating to the “Ivan Granja” OS which, which is also damaged in, in the very earthquake and I think it is necessary to allocate certain funds for, for that school and on the other hand, I think it would be normal if it had already made the city of itself, unfortunately not. And when you see who are irresponsible people at the head of the city, you should not be surprised, and I must admit that I am a little bit angry when I see that more about the restoration of the school is taken care of by the employees or teachers and the people who are employed in these schools than the City of Zagreb, the head of Lovrić and the mayor Bandic, who should be interested in the difolt for the system to start working as soon as possible, we must say that this is something that is scandalous for me and what is simply unforgivable. Also as unforgivable to hold the HDZ in Bandic's power and not let go. So I'm sorry sometimes to watch Mr. Prgomet fail in his office as president of the Assembly, that he would like to somehow get away, and in fact Plenkovic won't give him the HDZ, it's obvious that Bandic will try to keep it until the end. The problem I see is that there will be no happiness in the city of Zagreb until Mayor Bandic or Prime Minister Plenkovic moves away. It is obvious that these are the two brothers who are making problems for all Zagreb and Zagreb women. And on this side, you will see how it will go in the elections in the city of Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204614	The 120th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204615	As with the previous amendment, it is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204616	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204617	Thank you very much. It is a proposal that provides for 10 million kunas for the reconstruction and editing of Vladimir Nazor's OS. We were just talking, I have, thank you very much. Here, take this. Who, we were just talking about Vladimir Nazor's kindergarten, is now a primary school. I told you about who this is, which is a Croatian great, poet from Brac and one of the first presidents of this body, that is, the previous body of which is the Croatian Assembly, so that on this side of the investment, it doesn't matter what the school is called and by whom it is named, but investment in education, or in school, that the sooner the pro-functioner must be present. And as we approach the end of these amendments, I must say that I am a little saddened by the relationship between the chair and the government of the Republic of Croatia which, for the first time, usually when amendments are explained, is usually the representatives of the ministries, it is, it did not, on the other hand, I am sorry that HDZ or people who run this session see it as something that should not be pointed out, as if here, you see, the problem is when you talk about some problems, when you talk about this link between Bandic and HDZ, when you talk about non-investment and non-renewment of the city of Zagreb, then the problem is, and when you do nothing, then I guess it's commendable. It's the logic of HDZ that... and ask to vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204618	The 121st Amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204619	With the same explanation as the previous one, it's also not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204620	This is about investment and arrangement of OS Markuševec and I think that Markuševec is a suburban settlement in the quarter of Podsljeme, the town district of Podslame which was essentially the meaning of the epicenter of the earthquake 22nd at 6,24am, and I was just saying that people who were unfortunately forgotten there were there. That they were forgotten by the city, that they were forgotten by the state, but we haven't forgotten them by the representatives who think about how to return normal life to our city, how to return normal life to the Subslame, how to return normal life to Donji City, to Gornji City, how to return normal life to all city neighborhoods, and also those who are less affected, but are affected by an earthquake, such as Maksimir, Tresnjevke-North, Chernomerca, meaning where they are also, old buildings and which they also need, and their citizens need support. The problem Zagreb sees and what citizens of the city of Zagreb see is that unfortunately it is not the reaction of those responsible are adequate. Unfortunately, it is not the reaction of those who should help the citizens was in the way that citizens expect them to because they obviously do not care whether or not they will help the citizens, that and how they will restore the facilities, whether and how they will restore the city of Zagreb, but only because they are interested in reaching the elections as soon as possible and trying to restore the mandate as possible. Now, that's something that I find unacceptable and that can never happen again, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204621	Mr. Gordan Maras's 122nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204622	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204623	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204624	Thank you very much. This is about the restoration and arrangement of OS Kustoshi, which also has a certain problem, or not a certain problem, unfortunately she suffered in an earthquake, and also needs further editing and on that side of the problem that I see is that the city of Zagreb and the state was unable to secure any money but decided to let it go, to solve itself. So it is not normal for citizens at this time, neither students nor parents at all to know that and when they will be restored to that school and when they will begin to rebuild the city of Zagreb nor the apartments and houses that are restoring themselves but, unfortunately, they have decided to send a message that none, meaning the Government and Mayor Bandic, that none of these 100, almost 130 amendments are acceptable and that they do not want to accept it to help Zagreb and Zagreb. There is no law, amendments are not accepted, no financial assistance is available, or has minimal. I say again, 100 million kunas at 42 billion is nothing, and it's better that they didn't suggest anything because they insulted the Zagreb and the Zagreb women, instead of helping them, they lit a rainstorm that would be felt for a long time, but the Zagrebs will remember it. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204625	123rd Amendment by Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204626	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation as it is for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204627	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204628	Thank you very much. This is about one of the damages that happened and the investments that I think I need in OS "Horvati", so that, unfortunately, the City of Zagreb does not invest in its educational institutions for years. So, I'll bet that some small, smaller places are much more willing to invest in their educational institutions than it is in a big city like Zagreb or a city that has a huge budget when compared to some smaller units, 100 times bigger, but it does not invest in, in its facilities or schools, cosmetically invests in schools and on that side all of this non-investment that lasts for years must ultimately lead to the result being seen. And the result is that when a certain disaster occurs then the damage is much greater than that, for years, they have tried to invest in these facilities. And on the other hand, if this never happens again, we need to make a systematic investment plan in Zagreb's primary and secondary schools and, and kindergartens to make sure that one day we won't have this kind of damage because I'm sure that the facilities were invested that this kind of damage wouldn't be and that eventually the students would come back to their schools much sooner and much sooner to start teaching again than they will now. And here's another suggestion here is 10 million kuna. I am sorry that the government of the Republic of Croatia, or those responsible, did not accept HDZ and Bandic because I think that would be correct and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204629	124th Amendment by Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204630	It is not accepted with an explanation as it has been said for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204631	Here's your representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204632	Thank you very much. This is about OS “J.J. Strossmayer" in Warsaw Street in the city centre. That school is special to me because I went to that school from 1st to 8th grade, so from 1980 to 1988. So I got out of that school 32 years ago. And it's really hard for me, and I'm sorry that the school was no longer invested, although some funds were invested, but, and what was invested, that's what I was saying earlier. So it's investing, but it's investing in the wrong way, in the unquality works, obviously, and in the end, the damage that's huge is going to happen, and eventually it's going to have to be put back into some things. So, I know that a few years ago that school was renewed, that kids went to another school, that it took some time, but it needs to be correct and to do the work the way it should be done with a guarantee that when you do, you do everything. You can't just do carpentry, and you don't do chimneys or you can't just work chimneys without making a carpentry. If these older schools are already being restored, which is one of the older schools in the City of Zagreb, then a systematic renovation should be done, and I expect it from, from the moment it starts. I am sure that Bandic will not finish those schools and rebuild those schools, but should be prevented from participating in it at all because in the end, it will eventually share his pyades again, and the question of what quality it will be, the quality of the works that will be done in those schools. On the other hand, I'd like you to accept this amendment. I'm saying, I'm a little bit subjective here, and I just had to say this because of a potential conflict of interest because I went to that school, but you can see that I've all acted the same way, so there's no conflict of interest, and that's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204633	Mr. Gordan Maras, 125th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204634	It's not accepted. It's not accepted. It's not accepted. It's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204635	Here you go, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204636	I owe you one little correction for the previous amendment. For those older students and citizens watching us, the school "J.J. Strossmayera’ took place before the '90s. She called "Vladimir Nemet", so people know this school because we in Zagreb had a situation, and not only in Zagreb, but throughout the Republic of Croatia that people who were heroes against fascism suddenly became unpopular in the '90s, so some schools changed their names. But here, so my school was called when I went to it not "J.J. Strossmayer, rather than called "Vladimir Nemet". And this is about the Upper Sparrow OS in the 125th Amendment, which also had certain damages, is also on the slopes of Medvednica, but not near the epicenter but rather slightly, slightly, slightly west. So on that side of the school should be invested independently and it would be good if it were a continuous, continuous investment, unfortunately this is how, we've been sentenced for a while to Bandic and HDZ in the City of Zagreb, but that's how it is, and believe me neither Superman HDZ will save me in the next elections in Zagreb, not this bimonthly Batman, not who, who has played Batman for two months, and now people will just see what health problems will come. So on this side, I look forward to people telling HDZ what they think of them and supporting Bandic and this non-transparent government in the City of Zagreb because I don't think the citizens will forgive you. Here, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204637	The 126th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204638	With reasons as mentioned above, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204639	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204640	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment relating to the restoration and arrangement of the Fine Arts School of Silvij Hercigonje in Zagreb. The story is equal to some of the other stories that I have already told today, but I am glad that, here, colleagues and colleagues, although not too many of you, the most I heard about Zagreb kindergartens and elementary schools is Vice President Reiner and Vice President Sanader, if they were a little less on their cell phones, they would have heard more, but again, they heard at least what problems we have in the city of Zagreb and I hope that at least a little bit of the conscience that supports the Bandic who destroyed us literally destroyed the city of Zagreb. And it will take a long time, but Zagreb is proud, Zagreb is a tough city, Zagreb is an unruly city, if you remember this series, the Unruly City and if we have endured all the troubles that have reached us throughout history, I am sure that we will also rise after Bandić and HDZ leave the city of Zagreb. For the Zagreb and the Zagreb women, it is not a feature that you are born but how much you love your city and how much you contribute to it, how you feel and how you behave in it. According to none of these features, Milan Bandic is not a Zagrebian. He shames the city of Zagreb, and everyone who supports him shames him. He is ashamed of all those who allow him to steal Zagreb, to destroy Zagreb and to make Zagreb and Zagreb unhappy. But soon the time will come when we will solve this situation and when Zagreb will again Raise. [[Intruder: Time.]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204641	The 127th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204642	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204643	Here you go. The 128th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204645	It shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204646	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204647	Thank you very much. It is a very injured school in Vugrovec, Kasina, as well as for previous schools that is completely unclear why representatives of the HS who are from Zagreb and representatives of the City Assembly ignore all the damages that occurred in Zagreb elementary and secondary schools and kindergartens. And it will be interesting to see, after the HDZ generously gave out 100 million kunas for the reconstruction of Zagreb, I mean "hugely" under quotes. It will be really interesting to see how much money will be allocated in the city budget for the reconstruction of these secondary, primary schools and kindergartens on budget rebalance 9.6. when the resurrection of love between HDZ and Bandic is expected to be restored to the budget in order to confirm his eternal and unconditional love and support for Milan Bandic. If, in order to prove that these tiny trinkets that the unskilled president of the Prgomet Assembly were essentially forgotten and that love flourished. The only problem in this whole story is that we will not forget this love that we live in the city of Zagreb, which is the damage that HDZ and Bandic have done to us will not forget Zagreb and Zagreb and believe me, anyone who goes to the next elections, each next, and parliamentary and cityal, knows that the vote for HDZ is the vote for Bandic, and the vote for Bandic is the vote for HDZ. It would be best if they went together to the elections in one coalition not to torture people, because they know it's basically a voice for each other. So on that side, I'm looking for a vote on this amendment as well. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204648	The 129th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204649	With reasons as mentioned above, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204650	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204651	Thank you very much. This is about OŠ Petra Zrinski in Zagreb and it is a school that has suffered significant damage that has a red label to be restored because in the structure of the school it has not been restored, not for years but decades, or even more. A school that is normal for the City of Zagreb to be employed at the school and seek the way the school will be restored before the earthquake or improved. It is neither the work nor the "Petra Zrinski" school, it is not the job of any school in the City of Zagreb. The renovation and promotion of schools and investment in schools is the work of the City of Zagreb, the projects have to write employees of the City of Zagreb and they are the ones who are in charge of doing so, and the City of Zagreb is also in charge of putting out every kuna, not to be late 2-3 months with money for nutrition and hygiene needs but to be one day earlier and to see it as the Zagreb City's pages on budget implementation, so that there is transparency when it comes to the budget of the City of Zagreb. You won't see it when HDZ and Bandic are involved, but you will see it quickly, in a year when they are no more. And on that side, thank you for listening to me, Zagreb, and Zagreb. I see that people here from HDZ started gathering because they were waiting for this debate to end, they didn't care what I was saying, but everyone who followed me through streaming because HDZ closed the transfer through HRT, thank you for following me and trust me that we will continue to fight for Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204652	The 130th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204653	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because, within the pension insurance system, there is no right to pay one-time aid to pensioners. In addition, it is not technically possible to implement the amendment because the equipment activities were carried out by means of a material technical means with an amount of 358.5 million kuna of the planned EUR 380.9 million, so the remaining neutrino resources are not nearly sufficient for the amount provided for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204654	Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204655	Thank you. Thank you, thank you very much. It's about something that's meant by itself, which is that the pensioners most affected by our poored thefts of HDZ in the country, are being helped. And my proposal is to ensure that each of the pensioners with below the average pension is compensated and that this amendment ensures that this amendment ensures at least the better status of the pensioners. Unfortunately, HDZ does not accept it. From month to month, day to day, year to year, so I propose this amendment several times and I think it would be normal for HDZ to accept it. Unfortunately, it is not because, I would say, they do not care about the average pensioner, counterpart Bačić and others in HDZ worry about whether the elections will be 28 or 5 or 12 because they count that each week and day later the election is worse for HDZ. That's why they forced the assembly to disband on Monday so it wouldn't happen to be the 19th election. But trust your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, it doesn't matter when there's going to be an election. Here, I advocate it as soon as possible. So let them be 28.6. because that week before is still a holiday of 22., so a lot of people will connect, because I think that when the elections are held, they know what they're choosing, they know how you betrayed the Zagrebs, they know what's most important to you, they know that they don't matter to you, and on that side it doesn't really matter when there's going to be elections, and I'm looking for a statement for this amendment on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204656	The 131st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204657	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons described above for Amendment 102, and further note that, when drawing up the State budget for 2020, the Republic of Croatia and the projections are '21. and '2. The Ministry of Health planned funds at the emergency intervention position on buildings and equipment of health institutions in accordance with established needs and assessment of the existence of risks of exceptional circumstances. Then the Government of the Republic of Croatia increased significantly after the start of the extraordinary circumstances related to the earthquake in Zagreb, and the pandemic of COVID-19 funds at that position, and it increased significantly, and it is the same when changing and supplementing it now, so the state budget for the '20s. and projection '21. And '22. rerouted to health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204658	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204659	Thank you very much. Here, first I'd like to thank those who have had the patience to listen to this for five and a half hours. People must be aware that sometimes extreme situations require extreme behavior. So this is never in a normal situation that the Republic of Croatia would never work. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia had proposed a Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, this would not have worked. If Croatian citizens had the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they wouldn't be doing this. If HDZ were more important to how Croatian citizens live, rather than how to save their chairs, this would not work. But since it's not like that, I'm gonna do this and I'm not gonna give it up because people need to hear who wants and who does it. On the other hand, indifference and insensitiveness towards a fellow state secretary and to me has personally shown what HDZ is like here. We haven't had a chance to sit down in almost six hours or take a break of 10 minutes. Now that's the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, dear voters, our dear voters, it's HDZ, insensitive, insensitive, selfish, the only thing that matters to them is them. I wish he had come to the Croatian Parliament for this amendment, Mr. Beroš instead of looking around, to make it look as beautiful as possible and as likable as possible, to say when he will restore the destroyed Zagreb hospitals I have suggested with this amendment to be renewed. These are questions that I'm interested in, how they'll reduce waiting lists, not make-up for the election. I want this voted out, thank you to everyone who listened and forgive me if one of these officers who stayed here a little longer had to do it and I had no intention of damaging them. But this is the only way you can fight HDZ. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much and every good thing. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204660	132. Amendment by MP Mirela Ahmetovic, Sabine Glasovac and Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204661	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, by renaming the same person as the Gender Equality Advocate at the end of 2019, it does not need to continue to be available at the position of the Advocate General for Gender Equality by providing funds for payment of the cash compensation to which it would, if it had not been renamed, have the right for 6 months in the full amount of the salary and then 6 months in the amount of one half of the salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204662	Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204663	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I can understand the argument, but I also believe that if we take these, slightly more than 400 thousand kunas from the MORH item intended for the spiritual care of ODRH members, we will reroute them to empowering an independent institution that cares about achieving the Constitution of the guaranteed principle of gender equality. Especially because we know that in times of crisis, women are exactly who, I will say, on the first line of defense, i.e. under a working obligation, are the majority in the healthcare system, nurses, doctors, cleaning women, teachers, teachers, so at this point, these months and a few days have been exposed to the wave of those dams in which most women, rare dames, and what we can expect in the coming period and in the recession is that women will be the most affected by recession, working in those areas that are low-paid, very often victims of violence, and I think that by empowering an independent institution of the Office of the Advocates for Equality, we would not be wrong and we would help this Regulation which will in any way have jobs in the coming period, to work on gender equality and to protect the most vulnerable groups of society in which children, but also women. Here, I'm sorry you didn't recognize, that you technically rejected the amendment, and actually the weight of this story is much, or the importance of this story much deeper, I'm sorry you didn't recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204664	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State. Now we've exhausted all the amendments. I'm finalizing the amendment debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204665	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.07 HOURS]] The first thing we will vote on is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and project plans for 2021 and 2022. I see a colleague called Lovrinovic, I'm guessing a request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204666	Oh, Mr. President, no, I want to first after you've changed us here, I'm asking you technically the problem is that colleagues and colleagues if they see my card because it's been walking. Here she is, thank you very much, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204667	Okay. Is anyone picking up for a break? No, I don't. Then let's move on. In addition to the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for 2021 and 2022, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-financial users for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 years for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Centre for restructuring and sales, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HAC, Highway Rijeka-Zagreb, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Karolina Leaković, SDP representative club, MPs Mirela Ahmetović, Sabina Glasovac, Karolina Leaković, representative Željko Lacković, representative Gordan Maras and representative Stjepan Curaj. We held the statement earlier at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. There's a review of the amendment, so let's get to work. The First Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204668	Mr. President, I would like to ask you to explain the way in which you will vote for monitoring and a large number of amendments, as I have submitted 120 amendments to the City of Zagreb and that it is a disgrace to what you are disbanding HS before the adoption of the law on the renewal of Zagreb. I don't think it's even business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204669	My colleague Maras, is that a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204670	No, it's not a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204671	Then please sit down. Don't. It wasn't me, I'm Mr. Jandrokovic, not Plenkovic. [[Intruder Maras: Mr Plenkovic, people walk like this with helmets.]] Have a seat. [[Well, it's the same.]] Comrade Maras, please sit down. [[/Intruder Maras: It's like I told Plenkovic. Shame, people are walking around Zagreb with helmets like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204672	So people do not have the possibility of a normal life in Zagreb, I ask you to try to do everything possible to bring the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb before the Parliament is dissolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204673	I'm not going to give you a warning today is the last day and I want to part with you in the most beautiful memories possible, so we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204674	I don't think your wish will remain answered, but fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204675	So we will vote so that, as every time, those in the assembly vote by electronic means, and those in the galleries and other rooms will vote manually. I'll ask the question, who's for, who's abstentioned, who's against it after some time since you've given about 120 amendments if I see after five, six times I'll go then with the question of who's for and if I see that there's not enough number then we won't vote for abstention anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204676	Is that according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204677	Yeah, I can do that, is it by the Rules of Procedure No, it's not an ominous one. It's an experienced one. [[Intruder Maras: So from an ocular approach to vote?]] So if you see 10 times then learn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204678	Look, I insist on voting on every amendment as prescribed, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204679	So it's prescribed as I say. So the amendment has to get most, if we see that most of you are gone, then we don't have to count it all together. Let's go in turn, the first amendment of the representative of Gordan Maras the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'd like some results. We're waiting for the results from other rooms, here they are. So 49 is for and 77 against, the amendment didn't go through. We are now going to the 2nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras, the government is against, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204680	Excuse me, Mr. Plenkovic, I, I, I ask you once again to try to do anything to have a complete review of who voted. There's nothing here but 40 people sitting in this assembly. So, if you're into democracy, Mr. Plenkovic, do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204681	Dear colleague Maras, I know that it will be very difficult for you in the next few days, but I ask you that from your collegiation to all those who sit here and those who are in the other room, and you see that you are here, therefore you have a privileged position, allow us to hold a normal vote today with the confidence of the relevant parliamentary services. If you don't trust these people, I don't think they deserve everything they've shown all these years, they've been doing it, they're honestly counting votes, and there's no reason why they'd suspect me of how they spend and do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204682	Do you have sympathy with the Zagreb and the Zagreb women?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204683	I do. Comrade Maras, I, for example, paid my entire salary for the earthquake March. I don't know if you did it. You want to answer here now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204684	You think people are happy with your payment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204685	No, I mean I'm on my own.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204686	Would you bring it, please? Don't, don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204687	Comrade Maras, come on, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204688	Mr. Plenkovic, please don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204689	Comrade Maras, I beg you, I will not bid, nor speak of it, but when you call me that, I am obliged to answer, and so do you answer what you have done except speak loudly. We're going to the 3rd Amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204690	I'll just be able to do it, and now that you've done it, you've done nothing. You didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204691	Dear colleague Maras, I am not going to say now what the HDZ has done and what it is, which has been paid by parliamentary representatives, ministers, etc., I am not going to bid on it, it can be checked and let it be compared to what you gave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204692	You did nothing to Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204693	Come on, sit down. How now? You're back to your real name again. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Thank you for that. The brain is still working. 3. Therefore, the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 47 for, 76 against, so he didn't pass. Amendment 4 again, MP Gordan Maras, the government does not accept, please let's vote. I'll get some results. Yeah, who's in? Excuse me. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 47 for, 76 against, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 5th amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 46 again for, 76 v, did not pass the amendment. We're going to the 6th Amendment of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 44 for, 76 against, did not get the required number of votes. Amendment 7 of the same representative, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 42 are in, 77 is against. Amendment No. 7th of the same representative, the government does not support him, does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 45 for, 75 against, it didn't go through. Amendment 8 of the same representative, the government does not support it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 40 for, 75 against, the amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. 9th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 39, 76 was against it. The 10th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 42, 77. We're going to the 11th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through, 40 was for, 1 abstention and 77 against. We are now going to the 12th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment has not received the required number of votes, 39 is for and 77 is against it. Amendment 13 of the same representative, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 14th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 15th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 16th same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 17th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 18th amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 19 of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 20. Representative Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21 to MP Karoline Leakovic, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 22nd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to the 23rd Amendment of the same MP, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 24th Amendment of MP Karoline Leakovic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment of the 25th Representative of Gordan Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26 to Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the 27th, it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP, but it's not valid because it wasn't submitted in accordance with the Budget Law. We're now going to the 28th High Representative Gordan Maras, the government is not accepting him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 to MP Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 30 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 31st of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 32nd Amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 33rd amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 34 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 35. Stjepan Curaj's representative and the amendment of the 36th MP Veljak Kajtazi was also withdrawn. 37th Representative Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 38th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 39th Amendment, MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 41st amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 42 to MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 43 of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 44 by MP Zeljko Lackovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 45. Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 46th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 47th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 48th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 49th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 50th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 51st amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of the 52nd same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 53rd Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 54th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 55th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 56th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. That's it for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 57th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 58 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 59th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 60 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the amendment enough votes. 61st Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 62nd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 63rd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 64th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 65th same agent, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 66th same, same agent Maras, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 67th Amendment of Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 68th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 69th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We're going to the 70th same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 71st amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 72nd same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 73rd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. We're going to the 74th same representative, the government won't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 75th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. In 76, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The amendment of the 77th Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 70 and this amendment has not passed. 78th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 79th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 80th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 81st same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. 82nd same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of the 83rd Representative of Maras, who's in favour? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 84th same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 85th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. In 86, the same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 87th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 88th same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 89. Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 90th legislator, Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 91 of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 92nd amendment of the re-legislator Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We are now going to 93 which is invalid because it has not been submitted in accordance with the Budget Law. We're moving on to the 94th Representative of Maras, and the government doesn't accept it either. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 95th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 96th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 97 of the same representative the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 98th again, Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 99th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 100 of Gordan Maras MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. The 101st amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't get enough votes, so we're going to the 102st agent Maras, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 103rd Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. One hundred and forty-four representatives of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 105th, same MP, same attitude. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 106th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 107th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 108th Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 109th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 110th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 111 MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through, so let's go to the 112s, the government won't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 113, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. So we're going to 114, same agent, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed, so let's go 115, Agent Maras, the government won't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 116, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 117, MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 118th, agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. 119, Maras MP, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 120th Amendment of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 121, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Neither has this amendment. Amendment 122 of agent Maras, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We're going to 123, I have a feeling this one might pass, even though the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 123, no excuse, it was, 124, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 125 to MP Maras, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 126, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept him, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 127, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 128, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 129, same agent, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment to the 130th Representative of Maras, just a minute, would you like to withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204694	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After 120 amendments, you have not accepted any amendments, this is a shame, you have betrayed Zagreb and I want... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204695	Comrade Maras, I've turned off your speech. You really want to get a warning, don't you? ... Dear colleague Maras, you're just as rude and primitive as your president, so please get out of here now. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Comrade Maras, I beg you to step aside. Comrade Maras, I ask you to step aside. And what do you want? Wait a minute, colleagues and colleagues, what fellow Maras, what do you want now? Okay, there's a procedure. [[Invader Maras: I want you to pass the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, that's what I want.]] Come on, don't yell. Sit down. I won't move. [[/Intruder Maras: Do you know what I want now?]] And well, nothing, then we'll vote on it, and you're standing there. You're so nice to agree to the pay phone, so here you are, and we'll vote. So the 130th Amendment of Representatives can't, no, no, so we won't. The 130th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept and vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Stoker, get out of the way, colleague Maras, please. So we have to work... [[I won't move.]] Yes, please, have a seat... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] All right, well, fellow Maras, you're here all the time in the chair, and I don't know that the chair is any different than your chair, so go, go sit down, go sit down. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] My colleague Maras today is the last day of this assembly and I won't today, I won't punish anyone, I won't throw out... Comrade Maras, leave. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] The 130th Amendment has not passed. My colleagues and colleagues, just a little fellow Djujic, just a little bit, so what's going on right now is one inappropriate play by colleagues Maras. So we work here in the assembly by certain rules... And this fellow Maras here on purpose is causing a situation like this here so I can call the guards to get him out of the assembly. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And I'm not going to give it to him this time because today is the last day, and I want us to part ways regardless of the differences that exist between us, regardless of the different political views, attitudes, character, qualities that we have as humans, I'm not going to let anything ugly happen here today, but I would like nice, politely, civilised as a democratic council to do our job and then go on a campaign and get as many votes as the citizens will give him and as much as they deserve. And I'm asking you nicely now to let us work here. Dear friends, what you're doing is really beneath each level, below each level... Okay. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Would you please sit down now? You won't, and what do you want, what do you want? ... Well, that's for sure, the next session will bring, yes, yes, yes, colleague Maras, please tell me, come on, you know when we'll bring you, let's tell you where you live in Zagreb, tell everyone if you live in New Zagreb or somewhere in the northern part of town, say it... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So because it's very important because you haven't declared it where you live, people think they live, no, no, you hide, you hide, you hide where you live because you changed your residence, and you didn't report it in your card. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Come on, sit down over there. What I told you, everybody knows it, come on, yeah. Comrade Zekanovic, please... Is that... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Let's keep working. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, do you accept that this is how we do things? I'm not gonna throw him out, because you'd be looking forward to me throwing him out, and I'm gonna leave him standing here. [[- I'm allowed?]] Forever, we'll bring him a chair to be here forever. Yeah, come on. [[- I'm allowed?]] Just a little bit, so we've got a few reports of an injury to the Rules of Procedure, we've got a colleague of Zekanovic looking for a break, I'm going to appeal once again, please that today the last day we don't have a scene of the MPs, this all but what happened isn't appropriate, it's not polite, it's ugly, we're sending a bad message, it's a bad picture, and I don't know why you're doing it. Okay, well, I suggest we still do these two amendments, so let's do it later. Yeah, well, I'll give you a break to the Rules of Procedure, and after that we'll [[Intruder: Stanku.]] to have this violation of the Rules of Procedure and then to take a break from a colleague of Zekanovic. [[/Intruder: May I have a break?]] So, the 131st amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The 131st amendment didn't go through either. Let's go 132, colleague Maras, how much did you pay for the City of Zagreb and died in an earthquake... as much as your party has paid for it, HDZ has paid a million and 100 kuna... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] 132. Amendment... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Tell me, tell me how much you've given for others, let it be said that people hear how great you are, big, wide, generous, compassionate, humble to the people you serve [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] how much from your salary for the citizens of Zagreb do you say it here on this pay phone? [[Intruder: Shame may be on you, shame may be on you.]] You didn't give anything because zeroes give zeroes. [[I think I should get a break.]] 132nd Amendment The government does not accept, MPs Mirela Ahmetovac, Sabina Glasovac and Karolina Leakovic, the government does not accept, please vote. Who's in? How much money did you give for the City of Zagreb? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Neither did this amendment, nor did we know how many colleagues Maras paid the funds for the City of Zagreb. But he'll say that when the election comes safely. So, what am I supposed to do, my buddy Grumpy, what am I supposed to do? Well, I wouldn't. Let's go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. [[I've been looking for a break for half an hour.]] Let's go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204696	Dear President of the Assembly, you have injured an officer. 238th Insulting MPs. You called the fight for Zagreb a primitive, that's the first. Secondly, it is your duty to secure order in HS, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. You recently gave Maras three sentences before he said the first, the second, the third warning and kicked him out of the session. Today, when he does what he does, you hold him, and you do not want to secure order so that we can continue this uninterrupted work. I ask you to be consistent, not to act pre-electionally and not to play some kind of brotherhood and unity at the end of the term. In the elections we will calculate ourselves, and here you stick to the Rules of Procedure, do not insult the MPs, do not call the fight for Zagreb a primitive and ensure order in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204697	All right, all right, come on. Come on, your time is up. So, fellow Voter, please ask your colleague to return to his post and behave, to behave in accordance with the rules that exist here. So, I didn't call the fight for the City of Zagreb primitiveism, but something that my colleague Maras told me until he came here completely inappropriately, but well, that's his style. That's what I called primitiveism, and that's what I'm behind. I'm not giving any warning. It's the last day. And I'm not doing it because you want me to. And let's all see, let's all see what's the difference in behavior, which is the difference in understanding democracy, which is the difference in understanding the procedure and how either one of us works. Let everyone see it today. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204698	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 33. A Rules of Procedure that describes the role and, and what the president of HS is doing, which is you, you hurt him because your behavior is below each level today, Mr. President. What you've just said to your colleague, the Voice would all seem to be that you've been acting precisely with your leadership for the last 10-15 minutes below every level that some censor is getting used to here with Mr. Maras instead of applying the Rules of Procedure, you insulted him that he is primitive, fellow Bernardic that he is primitive. and you who do not receive a large majority [[Invader: Thank you, colleague Djujic]] You're getting used to it with your colleague, Maras. [[Intruder: Comrade Djujic, have a seat]] And like a centrifugal. [[Intruder: colleague Giujic]] Apply Rules of Procedure Because your behavior is below all possible [[/Intruder: A colleague...]] Levels, particularly of the President-in-Office of the Assembly [[Come sit down, sit down now.]] There you go. [[Come on, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204699	Come on, have a seat. So what you're saying now, that's right, talking about you as a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204700	He's talking about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204701	So, you challenge, you insult. I'm trying to hold on as long as possible under these circumstances and jurisdiction and some order and procedure. But you, too, after your colleague, the Voice, show that you want the incident, that you want me to be my colleague, Maras, to order the guards to kick him out... No, so because people are intelligent enough to understand what your goal is, and regarding, you're, you don't understand that... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You, no, no, you don't understand anything. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You don't understand anything. You don't understand anything. When a man's competent to be rude doesn't mean he's weak, it doesn't mean he's weak, it means he can take much more than you seem brave, but in fact you're a deeply censor. So, I don't want to, I don't want to offend anyone, I don't want to offend anyone, nor was my intention being that what's going on is happening, and I don't want this to happen here. Now look at this man, so watch what he looks like, watch what he looks like. But let people see, I'm not just going to reach for disciplinary measures right now, I want you to see who's what, I want you to see it. And now it's perfectly clear who's provoking, who's not decent, who thinks it's normal to insult someone else, who thinks he can do whatever he wants, and that shouldn't be the case. And you, it surprises me most, so that you support this behavior and still ask me and ask me to throw your colleague out of the assembly... So come on, then give it to you, please, you are one, you are one club representative who is homogeneous, so make a deal, and you throw it out. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You can't, yes. Comrade Zack, no, excuse me, we still have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204702	Dear Chairman, I spent a long time in these benches and wondered if I would get an answer to the question when HDZ thought of returning 24 million kuna and I thought at least by the end of the term there would be an answer, but I did not reject it. Thanks for not coming to get me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204703	Okay. I didn't realize what you wanted to say. Comrade Bauk, you've also reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204704	Mr. President, there have been three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You made one of them because you called two MPs the primitives, which you shouldn't have, and by doing that, you should at least give yourself a last-day warning. So, your relationship with the court is settled properly with the MPs, not in the assembly. Secondly, either you implement the Rules of Procedure and give Maras a warning and what goes or don't argue with him, period. So either ignore him...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204705	Well, here, I suggest that he, okay...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204706	No, no, you're arguing, Mr. President. So your responsibility is much greater than his. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204707	Okay. Thank you. I won't fight anymore, I won't throw him out, I'll let him stand here. Here, that's what I can do. Comrade Glasnović, you are a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204708	I'm sorry. 238. How long will we endure the terror of these left wing parties? This is, this is... , insults the intelligence of every parliamentary.../incomprehensible/... normal representative of the Assembly so that the man was swindled with real estate and there played the saint and this other Serbian comedians who only know how to steal and kill, and they don't know how to work, that's their problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't terrorize us anymore, we're gonna go home. There are, there are real, Mr Bernardić, you are real, your left wing, anal climbers and rectal climbers all of you. You stole that from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204709	Okay. Let's move on, there's another colleague, Zekanovic, for a break and I'm sorry, my colleague Grumoja, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204710	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to ask you to make it possible to work in the Assembly, we are tired of our colleague Maras, these discussions between the SDP and HDZ, the reconstruction of Zagreb and the destruction of Zagreb have been made possible by you. Milan Bandic is your product, SDP and HDZ, he is your child, and the HDZ breeder. SKH's child and don't terrorize us anymore, you destroyed Zagreb, Zagreb needs new forces, non-compromised forces, not SDP and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204711	Okay. Now, colleague Zekanovic, you have the right to rest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204712	Dear President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. So here we're looking at a play between SDP and HDZ. We have suffered a Croatian-Serbian trade coalition all along, and here we have that peak of play. I will remind Croatian citizens that the SDP, counterpart Maras and you, President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, voted equally on all key topics in the assembly of this Parliament. About the Istanbul Convention that rocked Croatian society, you were like-minded. As for the Marrakech Agreement, you also cheered together to be ratified. As far as the Life Protection Act is concerned, you are also like-minded and the Croatian people are fed up with this play you play on a continuous basis. Comrade Maras, continue to be there, but neither you nor Mr. Jandrokovic will be able to fool the Croats that this is a change. Because you and each other are offering the same policy. You are not an alternative, Croatian sovereigns, Homeland Movement, that is an alternative, that is the third time and that, I am sure in these elections will make a great result. But I will repeat for all those who have forgotten, all of the key topics that have been shaken by Croatian society in the past term, around all topics were contrived by HDZ and SDP, and those of the non-insinuatives within the HDZ, they are eventually still, hoping that Andrej Plenkovic will put them on the list, voted in favour of his governments, voted in favour of the budget, but now it is a little late. Now it's too late to repent because you won't be on the list anymore. For the end, Croatian peoples, don't fall for Mr. Marasa, don't fall for Jandrokovic, because this is all one big show, they run the same policy, the politicians of hypocrisy both.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204713	Comrade Zekanovic, you're getting a break, and I really don't agree with what you said, but what I can do. Comrade White, you've also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204714	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Assembly, the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats is looking for a break of a year. For what? Because it is obvious that some of my colleagues, our fellow parliamentary deputies, have been denied what today will only be dissolved and I am doing it for them, we are asking for it because we deeply sympathise with a number of colleagues who, behold, today, sad faces are leaving the Croatian political scene. Even today, on the eve of Parliament's disbanding, we have the opportunity to see that many are attacking the only original and only true reform forces in society, and that is certainly the coalition of SDP, HSS, HSU, GLAS, SNAGA and other partners, who will, in the next parliamentary elections, move all of you, and not only the law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb, but also the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, the law on the termination of HDZ corruption and corruption of their tokens and all those who attack us today. That's not what HDZs do, not even you do it, but that's exactly what those who prepare their ground in the upcoming elections do to bring HDZ back to power. The strongest critics of both me and Maras and Bernardic and all of us on the left are the ones who see themselves tomorrow with HDZ in power. They won't get away with it, and I'm asking you to give them a break for a year so that you or anyone else don't have to put up with them in HS ever again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204715	I'm not gonna give a break for a year, but I'm sure of 10 minutes. Is there anyone else interested in taking a break? There isn't. Then we'll continue, here at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. Here you go, my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204716	President, after the break, and before voting on the budget, given the demands of NGOs and us, can you make sure that when you vote on the budget that after the vote, you can see who voted, so it's relatively simple, we are here in the Chamber, we will press, and the opposition and the ruling are distributed to 2 halls so that it can be recorded afterwards and published on the Assembly's pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204717	It'll be known for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204718	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204719	Please. It's 12.16 o'clock. All right, please take your seats and let's go. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.33 HOURS]] We have therefore discussed and voted in favour of the amendments, so now, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we are going to vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget. On the basis of Art. 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of the state budget, require most of all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the draft amendments and additions to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? You can publish the results. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 42 against the amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The budget law, we are now moving to a vote on decisions to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans of extra- budget beneficiaries for 2020 and the projection of plans for 2021 and 2022. First, I am voting on the decision to give consistency to the changes and additions of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 42 against, we have made the stated decision. Secondly, I am voting on the decision to give consistency to the changes and additions to the Croatian Roads' financial plan for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 79 for, 45 against, therefore, the majority of votes were made by that decision. Third, I am voting in favour of the Conformity Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 46 against, we have made the stated decision. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consistency to the amendments and additions to the Fund's financial plan for the protection of the environment and energy efficiency for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most votes, 79 for and 47 against that decision. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consistency to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 79 for and 47 against that decision. I am voting on the decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the 2020 HZMO financial plan and the '21 projection. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. 7. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2020 and projections for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote is 79 in favour, 46 against that decision. 8. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of Autocesta Rijeka – Zagreb for 2020 and projection for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. 9. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan HZ-Pputical Transport for 2020 and the '21 projection. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. On 10th, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of HH-Infrastructure for 2020 and projections for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. And we're going to the 10th, sorry, we're going to HZ-Infrastructure now, we're going to the Legislative Committee's proposal, I'm voting on a proposal for a conclusion that reads: The HS section is authorised to carry out a revision of the amendments and addition of the State budget for 2020 with the representatives of the motion. and a projection for '21. and '22, and the proposals for amending and supplementing financial plans and outside of the 2020 budget beneficiaries. and '21. and a projection for '21. And in '22, as I've listed these 10 decisions and, therefore, they're doing a draft of that text, so please let us vote. Who's in? It's one custom we might need to change if we don't have it in this vote, but we do. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes we have reached a conclusion on the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee, resulting in 78 for, 12 abstentions and 19 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204722	Mr. President, since you're proposing a united debate, and the topic is extremely important, it's about budget rebalancing, then I suggest you at least extend your ability to speak for the clubs. I think it's extremely important, so here I am going to support a united debate, give it more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204723	Okay. Clubs that, clubs well, five minutes individual, clubs can be 15 minutes, okay? Okay, that's fine. Thank you very much. As we have decided, we will conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for the year 2021 and 2022 - In addition to the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for the year 2021 and 2022, it is also submitted: - Proposals Amendments and additions to the financial plans of extra-profits for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Croatian Highway - Autocest Rijeka-Zagreb - HZ Travel Transport - HZ Infrastructure and - Final Proposal of the Law on Changes and Completion of the Republic of Croatia. No. 946; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 39. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Article 2 shall apply. 211 and 212. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal of the State budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditure and expenditures are simultaneously proposed in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric, to give us further explanations of the proposal, several MPs reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First colleague of the Grumo for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204725	Your Honor, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before you moved on to this, the point of budget rebalance, so it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 143 and 144. I asked the Croatian government more than 30 days ago to answer why Belgium was removed from the list of countries that needed self-insulation. Belgium is a million-dollar country in Europe Just a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] timed out [[Intruder: No, time's up.]] It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I'm not responsible, Belgium is the country in which millions of people, the most dead of the coronarys, the political decision has been removed. [[Intruder: And that's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] from that list, I asked to be answered by that question, it's very important in the context and what my colleagues were saying, [[Intruder: Comrade Grmoe, your time is running out.]] A measure of self-insulation, that even at one point some bioterrorists, at another point can go to elections. [[I'm asking you to finish.]] We have a situation... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204726	I've got to shut you down because it's already gone, so you've been through twice the time, I've got it all figured out. You're being... I will again write to the government to answer that question, that is the authority I can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for Belgium, indeed, it has 3 times more inhabitants than Croatia and 100 times more dead. So much... is, therefore, 100 times more dead than Croatia, and 3 times more inhabitants. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just saying how good our measures were. Comrade Maras, you're picking up... I guess for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: And you're making political decisions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204727	Thank you very much. Here, after the epidemiologist of Grmoje and Jandrokovic who have established what is happening on the Croatian scene, I ask you, Mr. President, to stop this debate until Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic shows up in the Parliament because he should submit responsibility, this is my request as representative in HS that whoever is most responsible for the situation in Croatia come to HS and present the budget rebalancing [[Intruder: Excuse me, is this a request for a break, colleague Maras or what?]] In which, unfortunately, just a second, I finish my sentence. [[Okay, I'm asking you to sit down now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204728	I will right now, no, you have no right, this is business not what you're saying and what you're doing, and I will now call you as soon as we're done with my part of the Prime Minister's presidency that Mr. Maras of the Parliament wants him to come here. Here, I'll do it right now, and we can take a break, if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204729	Now I'm gonna ask for a break and I'll explain. ... Let me tell you what to tell him. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. [[Tell him what to say. Please, come on, come on.]] I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult and tell the Croatian public that Mr Plenkovic, who is after the elections to save his chair, is unable to come to the Croatian Parliament and explain to Croatian citizens what is changing in the budget, stands behind it as the most important document of his government. [[Intruder: This is now a request for a break?]] So, when it comes to budgeting, rebalancing or budgeting, it has to have a qualified majority, 76 MPs, and it's either there or there isn't a majority for his government. So he avoids that kind of debate because he doesn't have an answer. There is no answer for which there is no Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb in the city of Zagreb and there will be no reply today. There is no answer to the question why there is chaos in Croatian schools, which is why my children are now sitting in the office with me at work, instead of being at Croatian school, at their school, the oldest school in the city of Zagreb and learning and adopting knowledge. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is unable to organise a normal life in Croatia and restart teaching. There is no answer to the question why there is no more money in the Croatian budget for the economy, which is why no funds are provided for the continuation of economic measures in 6th, 7th and 8th months. So there's no answer to all those questions. Mr. Jandrokovic, you make fun of and make fun of and pretend to be arrogant here, but Croatian citizens are aware that everything you do, do not do for them, but do for yourselves. To stay in that chair, to keep him in that chair, to worry about Plenkovic and Jandrokovic for Croatian citizens, and that is pathetic, Mr Jandrokovic, and I am sorry that you act like the President of the Croatian Parliament. Keep making fun of her and keep making fun of her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204730	Please sit down. I don't make fun of anything, you make fun of the Rules of Procedure and the people who sit here every day, every day, every day. You're one of the agents who keeps doing the incidents. And don't tell me to make fun of myself and I'm proud because that's not who I am. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204731	Article 238, so Mr. President, you have no right to share qualifications, you are the first among equals. You have no right to qualify your representatives and to give your grades and it's not funny. I told you, Mr. President, your chair is your only interest. And that's pathetic, that's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204732	Comrade Maras, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204733	And I am sure that Croatian citizens will especially in your case...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204734	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204735	...to identify what it is, and also to the case of Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204736	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204737	I'm asking you not to do that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204738	Comrade Maras, please sit down. Well, don't, you insulted me first, and then you tell me I can't answer your insult. It's the logic of one trapped mind that thinks that he has the right to teach each other lessons and accuse the other of having to listen and keep quiet, and that's not how it works for you. Oh, come on. Okay, is there anyone else who's picking up? My colleague Grumo was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204739	I'm giving up this, I don't want to participate in this conflict, I've asked a specific question, I'm not a colleague of Maras, I've asked a logical question and I'm withdrawing this request for.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204740	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't continue at 11 o'clock. It's 10.50 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.01 HOURS]] I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Marić to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204742	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's the first sentence I have to say, at least so far in my personal term as Minister of Finance, I've never come before you with a budget rebalance in the first half of the year, but this time, the crown has done its part, so it's kind of brought us back together in the 5th month. Here, in any case, as was the case on several occasions, discussions and talks in HS on the first round of measures, the second round of measures, inter alia, was adopted by the Government, a convergence programme, a document that is an integral part of the process called, you know well the European Semester, and we have in some way fulfilled our obligation to send to European institutions, notably the European Commission. But more importantly, it's a document that we came up with updated projections macroeconomic for this and next year and what's most important for the word are actually the key figures in these new projections. Given the knowledge, information, data, forecasts, global flows and everything we take into account in these macroeconomic projections, we have come to the conclusion that this year's economic downturn of 9.4%, so the GDP decline of 9.4%, and you know well when we represent the 2020 budget, then we talked about growth of 2.5%, means significant correction and what we all know very well, we don't have to be economists, we don't have to be macroeconomics, we don't have to be macroeconomics that the circumstances that the covid has caused, and especially the part about how we say this, the closure of the economy or the closure of the economy ultimately have effects on these indicators. All GDP components other than state spending are also negative, so starting from personal consumption, which is also due to all the imputements that we usually take with such projections is 7%, the decline in investment somewhere around 9%, the decline in exports of goods and services, so both goods and services, and 30%, in our projections, or as a base assumption, we put a drop in the number of foreign tourists' overnight stays by about 70%. So tourism as an integral one of our strategic branches is in these numbers of exports of goods and services, actually exporting services as such. These projections also provide for the decline of imports of goods and services, it is the eternal one I would call the topic of import dependence, so now in circumstances when economic activity falls, when personal and investment consumption falls, then we have a decline of imports, but it is certainly an element that we all need to take care of together in some other circumstances, not only of these, let us call them so crisisous. As for the assessment of inflation or the consumer price index for this year, I say again, not only on domestic elements, so here we are talking already well-known simultaneous shock that on the side of the first instance offers in the first step, and now a marked shock on the side of demand. However, global flows are also taken into account in the consumer price index. We all know and follow well what happens to the prices of some raw materials, energys mostly oil, so for this year, among other things, we put a negative sign back in the projection, so a mild deflation of 0.3%. The most important variables in addition to this move on the labour market are employment, unemployment and wages. As far as employment is concerned, a fall of around 3.3% and a rise in the unemployment rate is expected to be 9.5%. So, all these projections that we had brought in a week earlier under the Convergence Programme have served as a basis, and we have sufficient reason to go into the changes to both the state budget and the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which is an integral part of these two points, given that the debate is united. As for the fiscal projections themselves, so the revenue side of the budget, I'll just remind you that in the original form of this year, the state budget of the revenue side of the budget was foreseen at 145 billion kuna. Taking into account all these new macroeconomic projections that are clearly and inevitably reflected in the revenue side of the budget. So the revenue side of the budget dictates two basic, two basic facts or two basic segments. One is that we have put certain measures in place to help the economy and taxpayers, and in particular these are measures, i.e. measures relating to the postponement or partial, partial exemption from the payment of certain public taxes specifically direct, income tax, income tax and income tax. However, an even greater effect on our forecasts will be of course from the expected decline in economic activity this year, which will, of course, reflect on the revenue side of the budget. And now that we're going to do an item by item, but I'm going to start with these total figures, so instead of 145 billion 140 million for this year at the state budget level, we predict 121 billion 950 million. So 23 billion and 200 million kunas less than originally predicted. Of course, when you look again, the item per item, the biggest correction in absolute amount is again on the highest income of the state budget, and that is the tax on additional value, but we also see adjustments on all other forms whether we talk about profit tax, whether we talk about contributions, whether we talk about the excise system, and then some others. However, I think that in this rebalancing, of course, we will respond to all your replicas and comments, but in some ways we are more focused on exactly what we call in the tax revenue budget, so tax revenues and contributions. The waste side of the state budget, the waste side of the state budget, given the situation, the outbreak of the Covid epidemic and all its reflections and all its reflections and on the Croatian not only economy but the society of us as a whole, put one additional challenge, which is that, in relation to the intended expenditures and originally planned, there must be additional sources of funding from one side of the health system, so the need for additional procurements that originally no one could or should have predicted in terms of protective equipment, masks, respirators and all that was needed to preserve human life's health, which we all said very clearly at the outset, I would have said in the beginning and agreed that the primary objective or call it such a zero goal, but also some measures that were put in place among others to reduce or to so many possible neutralise the damage to our economy. Therefore, aid measures as we referred to them mainly as economies of the horizontal nature of measures relating to direct support to employers for the payment of part of their employees' salaries, of course, on the condition that jobs are preserved. So, you can see from, I would say her own name, but also the structure of the measures, so measures to preserve jobs and, of course, measures that should also preserve the standard of Croatian workers or employees. This measure, which is not originally envisaged, and when you add and add to it and the effects that the state will not only pay for the support of the original 3,250 and for the 4 and 5th and 4,000 kuna, but also all public contributions, in this particular case, are contributions. So, all together we get to the level of about 7 billion kuna, when you add these original millions, and today we're already 100 million additional for healthcare, and then we come to what we as a government have drawn out in this rebalancing, which is that despite these increased expenditures, increased payment needs from the expenditure side of the budget that we didn't originally plan, and you hear ourselves talking about amounts of over 7 billion kuna, on all other items of the expenditure side of the budget, we find savings and corrections or cuts in all resolutions to bring the total expenditure side of the budget to the same level as originally planned. And it was actually a great effort that we have made in recent weeks, and I will, of course, thank all my colleagues in government and government, of course, and the Prime Minister for supporting that our basic draft, or in some way, leading the fiscal policies that we've been doing all this time, is I going to remind you once again that not one more year, in recent years, those beautiful years without Covid, not one year have we broken the budget's expenditure. And when we had a better budget, and every year that was the case, all that extra income was being rerouted to tax cuts and tax evasion and public debt cuts in the Republic of Croatia. This principle, unfortunately this time we have no surplus income, we have a deficit, but we continue to retain this principle in these circumstances very challenging with great pressures on the dissipating side and we want to maintain and not penetrate the overall side, or the total level of expenditure. Thus, the total level of expenditure of the state budget remains at the same level as originally foreseen in the amount of 147 billion kuna as regards the state budget. What is also important to say is the financial plans or corrections of financial plans for 10 extra-financial users. So, their original plan is, when we add them all together, there was an excess of around 725 million kuna, according to this new plan when we go one by one, we can, of course, also during the debate, analyse the more detailed financial plans of all these 10, so Croatian roads, Croatian waterways, DAB, CERRP, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, HZO, HAC, Highway Rijeka Zagreb, Croatian Railways Infrastructure and Croatian Railways Passenger transport, their new deficit for this year is 2.4 billion kuna. So also at their level significant correction. When we consolidate all this together, add local self-government, so all 576 units entering the general state and according to our national methodology, but mainly according to the ESA 2010 methodology that is comparable to all other EU Member States, we come to the fact that compared to the originally planned surplus for this year, surplus. For the first time, the surplus was planned, three years in a row and we achieved 630 million kuna that the deficit in the general government's budget is expected to amount to 24 billion 843 million kuna or 6.8% of GDP. So I will repeat once again, 4 years in a row absolutely under control and consolidated public finances, noting that... a few days or a few weeks ago EUROSTAT also published the last data for 2019 that we also achieved a surplus in the general government budget of nearly 25 billion kuna, so this year in view of the circumstances and all the elements that I have explained brings us back to the level of the significant deficit of I say almost 25 billion kuna. The component of this plan, i.e. rebalancing and amending and supplementing the financial plan, are amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget closely linked to the financing account. The financing account so far and in some of my previous exhibitions if I were to present the budget, and I mean the good part and in the debates, it may not have been so much in focus, I think here I am now going to use these remaining few minutes to pay attention to it, and I believe that in replicas or debates a little greater emphasis will be placed on it. So a few figures on that side of the funding account are so what we say below the line, it leads to everything that among other things is the need to finance that year. We had an original funding account plan of 30.5 billion kuna which would mean the planned one again, a balanced budget and all the maturity of different types and instruments of our public debt, whether we were talking about long-term bonds, loans, whether we were talking about short-term, vault records as well as some other elements. This financing account, given the already mentioned deficit, but also some other elements that I will explain, is increasing by an additional 32.7 billion kuna and totaling 63 billion and 412 million kuna for this year. What I repeat, as I presented it at the government's session, and I will now say, if there is one good thing to be pointed out in these amendments and in addition to the state budget for this year, and that is the fact that we have already realised more than half of it. With the state budget being proposed, €35.6 billion has already been realised before the covid outbreak itself, you remember that on the domestic market we have issued the cheapest and longest in terms of the hand-holding bond on the domestic market. Three tranches totaling 15 billion kuna, with it being the shortest with a coupon, or with a turnover of 0.25%, the cheapest ever. And for the first time, we've issued a 20-year bond. We also had some other maturity in small arms. After the crisis itself and how it is between me and the legal obligation to report to the parent Committee on Finance and the state budget, and the HS in the meantime we have realised several transactions. On the one hand, with some of the largest commercial banks, we have made several bilateral arrangements totalling 6.1 billion kuna, an average maturity of about five years, on average about 1.3 to 1.5% of the annual interest. After that we also... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the bank to the bank, we'll explain everything later. Yeah, it's important we'll only do it later when you're replicating. After that, we also had the refinance of a large vault record that amounted to 7 billion and 800 million kuna last week, it was refinanced under conditions, meaning at an annual level of 0.06 so almost zero, and a few days ago we issued a bond on the domestic market of 1 billion 455 million euros per 7 years with an annual interest rate and a coupon of 0.75%. So it's kind of an integral part already done. What remains before us, so in this financing account is the continuation of our activities as on the domestic capital market, the projected activity and on the international capital market in terms of the issue of the euro bond because we cannot ignore the fact that in the middle of the 7th month, a billion dollars of international bonds, issued 10 years ago, as well as some other elements, are coming to us. We are also counting and the financing account provides for sources of funds from international financial institutions. All this time, we have been conducting an intensive dialogue with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank and some others, as well as of course with the EU. You know well that at the EU level under our presidency, unfortunately not as quickly as in our circumstances, but it is on certain instruments, so, among other things, if you have heard well about that programme, so-called. SURE English word krilatica or shortcut that practically replicates in translation this measure that we have put into office, which is helping to pay part of the salary or to preserve jobs for employees. It's all an integral part of this financing account, and that's what we predicted among other things. And only the last part of the funding bill do I know that there are a lot of MPs here who behave or have acted and are always connected to local self-government in the financing account we've predicted the resources of 2 billion kuna and 900 million kuna, what we've called a unambiguous loan for local and regional self-government units and what we pay off as we've already indicated ourselves when we've represented measures, depending on the possibilities of the funds we've come to, how the requirements arrive, how we process them so we transfer them. And it's also a very important part of HBOR. HBOR in these circumstances and all these measures that we have put into operation is an extremely important institution, mainly in that part concerning new credit liquid funds for entrepreneurs, so that these new programmes that have been put into operation, as well as the existing ones, as well as all the measures that HBOR has taken into account anyway, whether we are talking about moratorium and some reprogrammes of the existing, but, excuse me, mainly new commitments, in the amount of about 3 billion kuna we have foreseen in this financing account, so what we have mentioned in the circle of measures. Given the circumstances and the great challenge of preserving liquidity in the system, the idea is that the State budget is a central point because it is much simpler, not only to coordinate but also to approach, both domestic and international markets, however, from the level of the central state budget, and then disperse this liquidity in the manner in which it should be. Here, so, thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204743	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have 23 replicas. I'll only read it if someone may not be registered because a lot of you have been answering. So we go like this: Bulj, Grbin, Maras, Jovanovic, Grmoja, Glasovac, Čuraj, Zekanovic, Mišić, Žagar, Pernar, Perić, Panenić, Mrsić, Felak, Ante Babić, Lacković, Lalovac, Mrak-Taritaš, Dobrović, Strick, Bauk, Bilek, Šuker, Borić, Greece. Okay, there's a lot of it, here, I'll write it down, Shuker, Boric, Greek, so 26 we have it. We're on our way, please just hold on for a minute. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204744	Thank you very much. Minister, the downfall is economics, tourism. However, you forgot one very important thing, the World Bank warns us. The biggest downfall will be from our citizens sending money to their families. We know it's 6% of GDP and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies that have evicted our citizens. How much you.../incomprehensible/... that's 18 billion kuna a year, our people from abroad are sending to their families. How much do you expect there, and we need to know that Croatia is at risk to the World Bank, what do you expect and what you have done for those people who are in Ireland, Germany, who you have driven out of your policies, what have you done that they can at least apply to the Employment Office in Croatia? What are the measures for these people who have been filling this budget while you have boasted about the effects and growth of the economy, and in fact because of the bad policies are What do you expect from the evidence? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204745	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204746	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here are the previous circumstances when you've opened that topic in some way, potentiated the wording or are practically transfers from the abroad of our people who are working, are an integral part of it, and then I'm answering, and now I'm going to answer, they're part of the balance of payments, so something that's in the CNB's intelligence, which is very clear, very unequivocally, transparently, all the citizens see these figures and that you're also quoting. It is our responsibility, not to predict and plan and in some way to elaborate any details of the balance of payments, but to consider when planning. Because what you're saying, and if one of our people working outside is transferring funds to their family, to their neighbors, etc., those coins through different visions, either mostly consumption or whatever, they have, of course, an effect on the budget. It's all an integral part of our projections and projections that I've just elaborated, so they'll obviously have an effect on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204747	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204748	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It is clear that one of the sectors most affected by this crisis is touristic, and in particular small tenants are affected. I'll read you what's on the official website of the IRS. The tenants who applied for a postponement of the tax until 30.3.2020 for the obligation to arrive on 31.3.2020 granted the right to postpone the payment and the obligation until 30.6.2020 and will not be cancelled. Dear Minister, you and I both know that small tenants will not make the revenues planned for the 4th and 5th and most likely for the 6th month. Since the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given to the Tax Administration's pages that these obligations will not be written off, and that we are today, or we are discussing rebalancing, my question to you is whether these obligations will be written off or will be small renters have to pay after 30.6? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204749	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204750	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have made very clear and transparent, unequivocally all the criteria prescribed at the level of the Tax Administration, I thank you and for the replica, given that you have also potentiated and I am pleased to see in the media space that in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of praise at the expense of the Tax Administration and I will use this pay phone, too, because I think my colleagues in the Tax Administration have done a great deal, this has not been simple and all these measures that have been put into operation, the criteria, but even more important their implementation as such. As for private tenants, we've talked a lot about this in the form of previous circles of tax reform, I think we can conclude that we have concluded other than those excluded from paying certain tax obligations or zero rates anywhere, that this is the least taxable segment of the general tax system and of course we will not ignore it as such, but given all the circumstances, is, when we talk about the average amount per bed of 300 kuna per year, in fact in some way It also reveals what we're talking about, but anyway, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as it is very clear, the criteria are prescribed and defined [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] And the IRS does it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204751	Now let's go to the request for a break from colleagues of Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204752	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking on behalf of the Bridge Club for a 10-minute break on the rebalancing proposal. Like I said, colleagues and colleagues, this rebalance, i.e. This crisis exposed all the policies of the bad that were towards the Croatian people. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. As I said in the replica, 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna is from our evicted people. Agriculture was destroyed, when we were giving the most subsidies, you were talking to the ministers about self-sufficiency, when I was talking about self-sufficiency and proposing laws, amendments and saying that we had to encourage domestic production, not foreign GMO products, that's when they told me they were my ticks. Tourism, absolutely forbidden everything, will fail tourism. The only thing that won't fail is the election, and even those who are self-insulated ministers will be able to go to the polls, and our caterers are in quarantine. They're all, so it just doesn't work. And these evicted people of ours were the first to lose their jobs, that's the youth you've sent out to bad policies. I'm not happy with your answer. What are you offering these people who left Slavonia because of the bad policies that went out of my Dalmatian burn? The only thing you're saying about local self-government is that you're positive. You can see in Split-Dalmatia County which is a creation. A creature that functions like a mob. They destroyed my Zagora, 100,000 people have left since they led Sanader and Boban and so on. Take some action. Let's stop the county, and local self-government will be able to function, so the viruses won't enter where they don't smell, and we'll be able to go to the elections of those who are in isolation. This is a shameful demonstration of the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204753	Thank you, fellow Bull. I approve of the break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 11 and 40. It's 11:00.31. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] First in line, or third in all, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204755	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. My question is simple, I saw in the budget rebalancing that the amount intended to restore damage in the city of Zagreb is below 100 million kuna. What I'm interested in, that's 400 times less, so 400 is less than the estimated damage in the city of Zagreb. So I'm curious whether you as a man living in Zagreb, are you a member of the HDZ who supports M. Bandic in the City Assembly, you think it's okay to go to elections without the passed Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb and that it's okay not to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb and tell them that the state is behind them? So I think it's a shame that after 45 days, so now almost 50 days in the city of Zagreb, the city looks like a ruin and that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the current city government treats us this way. I must tell you that I am sincerely not only angry but also sad, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204756	Thank you very much, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204757	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have seen well in the budget rebalancing is secured at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering of an additional 100 million kuna, to add to that the amount already standing at the level of 41 million kuna to the Environmental Protection Fund as regards subsidising the part of the price price of those so-called. condensation boilers, therefore, we are talking about the amounts foreseen for interventions in this rebalancing process, which will allow, in the short term, and should enable, of course, the return of citizens whose homes are damaged due to earthquakes, but also what you will hear in two days at the cabinet session and all of our follow-up that, among other things, in a horizon of such a single comprehensive law and result in the resulting because not a single budget is called such a project or damage or all together for a year, this is a multi-annual issue in which it should be approached very systematically and in one appropriate way to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204758	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204759	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my question concerns health care. Since health care is concerned, I cannot begin by not congratulating all nurses and technicians of the International Sisterhood Day and thanking for the tremendous efforts that make them maintain a health care system in a state that can meet the needs of Croatian citizens. There are over 41,000 registered nurses in Croatia, of which nearly 35,000 work in the health system, which is 45% of the health care system. I'm afraid you haven't taken the health problem seriously enough because the debts are certainly close to 5 billion kuna, I don't see how you're going to solve that debt, and all that's waiting for us in the next period is just an increase in the health care system. Also, you have unseriously approached the additional insurance problem because it was necessary to provide additional funds for 200,000 insurance companies that would be free of charge of the supplementary insurance policy, which is 160 million since the beginning of this year, there is no such thing as a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204760	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204761	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's how long I'm going to be able to answer your line, but since there are more doctors in the assembly, I'm going to believe these replicas on the health issue. 8.5 billion is the situation at the end of last year's total debt in the health system when all of the total is summed up to 3 billion and 800 million kuna. The trend in growth is continued and this year, I have to say we have data in the third month, we don't have local data yet, but as far as HZZO is concerned, and especially as far as so-called. Colloquium-named state hospitals can conclude that this debt is continued. What I was saying at the outset, so we focused on the area and the health issue before the rebalancing of the whole series of redistributions within the legal possibilities. In particular, what was at that moment was the most important insurance of respirators, protective masks, etc. And we'll continue in that direction. However, the financing of this figure overall exceeds the problem of Covid himself and one rebalancing, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204762	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204763	Thank you. Dear Minister, as far as this rebalancing and its indicators are concerned, we understand everything. The elections are at the door, so budget spending is expressed by total expenditures not reduced by a single kuna. On the other hand, it envisions a huge drop in budget revenues, some 23 billion kuna, which would be a 16% drop. So it's clear that this isn't a real budget rebalance that this is a fake, so this is a fake budget rebalance and we're going to have a real budget rebalance after the election. And I ask you, how do you think Croatian citizens will feel about the situation in Croatia in the 9th, 10th month, and how do they see it now? Will he be more optimistic at the 9th and 10th months or are they more optimistic now? Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204764	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204765	Thank you very much. Well, I got a lot of labels in the Croatian Parliament, the most impressive one was an accountant or an accountant, so I denied it, and I'm definitely not a sociologist and psychologist who can assess the state of the nation either today or in a few months. It is our role and the tasks of all together to make this psychological element improve, improve and in the given circumstances in fact all we can give that, as well as such challenging situations and their negative effects minimise as much as possible. As far as rebalancing is concerned, I will repeat once again, the budget's expenditure side, despite the needs of 7 and a few billion kuna for higher expenditures, remains unchanged. It is a great, great effort that we have managed to do in just a few weeks to keep this spending side at the same level and not to create additional pressure on taxpayers or additional pressure on public debt. But the fact is 23.2 billion Kuna is less in the revenue of the budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204766	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are a parent, you have children, and you are likely to know that in the last month and a half the only person who maintains the system of education in life are teachers, teachers and parents. No. The Ministry of Science and Education there is a complete breakdown of the system. Can you please answer the question why did you decide to reward this teacher and teacher by taking everything from them through the budget rebalancing? So, not only the basis for 4%, like all public and state officials, but also the Santa Claus and the regression and the jubilee and all the accessories they fought for for two months on strike. Was it really necessary to take them absolutely, absolutely everything and bring them literally to the beggar stick?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204768	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204769	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so of course I cannot agree with your findings primarily with qualifications, we are still in charge of dialogue and our offer is on the table. At the same time, the conversation continues, and at this point, I wouldn't prejudge anything. I join as with previous commendation and congratulations to all medical staff as well as to our teachers and who maintain also well apostrophe with the help of parents mainly for teaching, for children in the teaching of lower classes education system as such. I will repeat once again, so when there was a topic and a strike with an increase in the base of 1.1% and 3%, respectively, for the system of education 3% that came into force at the end of last year, total salaries for more than 20% of the government's mandate. So what we're talking about and what's kind of on the table as an offer, you well know that we've been very clear on the strike, for a certain part of these increases the funds weren't originally as intended, nor originally But again, 20 percent increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204770	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204771	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers in your speech and projections, of course, predicting the decline of GDP here we have predicted of 9.4 we have heard that the commission is slightly more beneficial to our economy and predicts a smaller decline, which is good, which I can say that this rebalancing does not predict a reduction in state spending or budget itself, and we know that the share of GDP is 20%. What is not good, which states that the assumption of exporting services is a 70% drop, and if our tourism drops 50%, that's 10% of GDP, so that's it, total tourism if it falls by 50%, that's a 10% reduction in GDP. So, according to this, we expect GDP growth in the last quarter. And I'm interested in what about the European Course Mechanism, or what about the introduction of the EUR, given this debt that goes beyond 86% of GDP, what are we going to do about it? Because I'm not the Kunophyl that I prefer the kuna to my own citizens, and I think that the EUR would help and help its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204772	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204773	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative last week at the government meeting met the last of 19 measures that we took almost a year ago in that letter of intent to enter the exchange rate mechanism II, so the last of 19 and now we will also write a new memo where we will inform the European institutions about this. As for the Master criteria you are alluding to, or the specific question of public debt, so I'm going to go over it one more time and say it. So 60% is that limit, as far as it's going to be tomorrow and what's going to happen I wouldn't be going into it right now at this point of debate, but if you're above 60% of the drop, there has to be a minimum 1/20th difference between the current level and that 60%. Croatia has reduced public debt four times faster over the past four years than those provisions say. So we met the criteria. This effect, which is ultimately how we now see it one-time on public debt growth to 86.7, should not distract us from this further path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204774	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204775	Dear Minister. I would like you to tell us, to the Croatian public, how much will we get in this next period, the grant money from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204776	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204777	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, out of the current envelope a good part of the funds, and there are also great efforts made by the cabinet and individual colleagues of ministers, mainly Pavić and Aladrović, where we have made redistribution and re-location out of the existing envelopes that have been allotted for certain purposes to what is most important at the moment, and yet I repeat this horizontal measure of paying part of the salaries or preserving jobs to the economy. You also know well that behind our chairmanship dialogue or negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework are under way, when and how they will be completed, we will see more. We, of course, did and did everything to make it our presidency, the covid had its own kind of effect and effect. Of course, we are talking about grants or aid schemes, but parallel to that, at EU level, they are either put into office and some additional schemes concerning credit arrangements that we will also take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204778	Comrade Misic, please welcome your request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204779	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I asked you an extremely simple question, you didn't answer me. I asked how many, you didn't answer me and I now, this is my time let me ask you a question now, and I'll actually give you an answer because it says in the rebalancing, and that's the number you didn't tell me. I'll read what's written in the rebalancing, so when we talk about revenues, there's a 623 item of assistance from abroad, about a gift from entities within the general budget. That item says that in the next period or after the rebalancing period, we will be planning to get 500 million kuna, namely 502 million kuna less money than we originally thought with the budget we adopted at the end of last year. So 500 million kunas less. For Croatians and Croats who follow this session, let them know, 18 billion 756 million kuna were planned, and there will be 18 billion 253 million kuna. So, I've pointed out more than once, and this time I'm going to say, European solidarity is gone, we're not going to get any lip from the EU, and you said yourself we didn't get, that there's something else being negotiated, and you've been rebalanced the budget for less money. So, the European project fell on the first test, on the first step, on the first obstacle, meaning solidarity was neither there nor there, and this is one empirical evidence that you did not want to comment on or that you did not want to tell the Croatian public loudly and clearly. When it is most difficult for us, rather than for the EU in which the Croatian Government has sworn to help us, and we find it most difficult because we are a tourist country, almost exclusively a tourist country, the EU is taking our money, or you are planning less money with the rebalancing process than we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204780	Okay, the break will be approved. We'll continue at 12.05, first in line, fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204781	We continue, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Misic Ivica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204782	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I see the state is in trouble with the finances but I am pleased when you opened the highway now in Slavonia. I personally think you run good finances but I must say that today's rail traffic is 15% higher compared to earlier, so I ask you if you are in rebalancing, I see that you are not, but will you predict that the railway from Zagreb to Vinkovac is being made? Why? Because we see the highway itself feeding all the highways of Slavonia towards Serbia, all the highways of our food, so the Vinkovci railway, once through the railway station, went through 450 trains in 24 hours and now it's increasing, so Europe should think about it, now more trains go with freight traffic and that's what I want to say to Slavonia and think about it, and I think now it's time to do the same thing as you did on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204783	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204784	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, you've been well apostrophe and in some way and a trace of this thinking of yours is in line with what we're talking about and in these circumstances that I've been talking about many times and speaking and replicating, and on the fall of income and on the fall of economic activity and so on, there's one part that we can't ignore, and it's investment activity and the state needs to make a contribution, I say again in accordance with the possibilities and the overall framework. We have also seen before the rebalancing and in the past days and with colleagues from the Croatian roads, highways, from HZ, of course, the resolute Minister of Col. Butković, which is also how to maintain these plans that are originally envisaged, with which to go further, but in any case, always that emphasis on public investments, mainly those that we can finance and co-finance through European funds, so European aid through cheap sources of funding to continue as such, so that on this trail, if something is not foreseen in this budget and rebalancing, it is certainly intended to be in perspective as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204785	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204786	Thank you. Dear Minister, we could say that this budget is short-sighted and short-sighted. Why is that? I read it from your words. You said that, and it's financially correct, that you've been overstretched to maintain your expenditures at the given values, at initial values, and there's practically no regrets because it wasn't easy to fill those redistributions. But it's quite clear that this isn't the last budget rebalancing this year, that there will be more, so I'm saying it's short breath. And why is he shortsighted? You repeated this and when the budget was made, you repeated the same thing, which is a key thing for the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy in general. When industrial production and exports fall, we paradoxically fall and import. And that is the key in the structure of Croatia's GDP, and that is why I miss this political message in this budget that, which is reform, what things we intend to do to change this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204787	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204788	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this import addiction, we have talked about it personally and here in the Assembly a lot, and I think now it is also getting some additional, additional importance, and I would say with more knowledge very clearly, very unequivocal, fact-finding, which is that these circumstances imply, in some way, the strengthening of and domestic components of self-sufficiency and ensuring self-sufficiency throughout a series of segments of food and agricultural production, industry, here in this particular case, pharmaceutical or chemical industry, there is, of course, a question of energy and energy sufficientness, unfortunately, we still haven't found any more significant oil supplies in our area, so we are a net importer of certain categories, but again reduce that import dependence, to reduce some kind of dependence on some global flows that you can't influence, it's some idea that we see in this crisis. If I say one rebalancing or one budget can recognize or not, but it's one of the key reforms that we all need to do together, it's not just a matter of state and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204789	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204790	Dear Minister Maric. The educators lost their raises, and you lied to them, and you told them we'd raise your wages, and now you've changed your mind that you wouldn't, and then you're putting the guilt of God on the crown. But Mr. Maric, you're the ones who banned the work, you're the ones who pushed people into quarantine and isolation, you're the ones who banned tourists from coming. And please explain to me, you are a very smart man, those who drive tourist buses, for example. So the carriers, who took these buses on the lease they're banned, the tourists are banned from entering the country, let's explain as a smart man from what they're going to pay the lysing wars that are still coming at their checkout? You don't care about these people at all, and you don't care about Croatia. They shed crocodile tears for the Croatian people, but these are not unfortunately tears but tears of joy when you devour them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204791	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204792	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. A lot of things you kind of said, it's hard to answer at all in one minute. I haven't lied to anyone, either to teachers or union leaders with whom we conducted negotiations last year for this year. I will repeat again as I did just before, and the honourable representative answered, during this term, we have been conducting a constructive dialogue since the first day of the day, each time resulting in some sort of step. ... No, it wasn't just at the end, but whatever it is, I'll never change your interpretation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Each year resulted in an increase in wages and further perspectives and a further look forward. We want and have always recognized the hard work of all civil and public service employees, those you too knew very often in your public appearances to call ugly names. For us, they are very correct and very good employees who deserve more wages than everyone in the economy, but all in line with the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204793	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204794	I'd like to say he insulted me and all the public sector employees when he said I called them ugly names. That's not true, Mr. Maric, I'm against austerity measures and you know why I'm against austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204795	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204796	Chairman. My colleague Pernar injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not refer to the Rules of Procedure and did not speak about it but literally replicated it, so I believe he deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204797	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, okay. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204798	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. We are witnesses of the rate of fees or salaries paid to entrepreneurs or employees, which is more than 480,000 employees who received a record period of work compensation or support provided by the Government and were over a billion kuna from those redistributions. We are here now to further ensure both subsidies and household benefits, etc. Another 4.9 billion kuna is actually ensuring stability both for entrepreneurs and for the safety of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204799	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204800	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here you are, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, follow every item and each figure of the account, and let's call it the liquid part, in particular. And you know well yourself as a longtime financier that it's not easy to secure all these funds in a short time, but of course we're not looking for any laurels here right now, and I don't know what merits, but the fact is that we did and it was our intention from the very beginning to design these measures as quickly as possible and it was clear our intensity and when we first came to HS and when we had the debate the clubs supported our efforts and we're grateful for that. But I'm saying, it was even more important to go as soon as possible into that implementation and that's what we did. I said we secured liquidity for payments that started or started in the 5th month for the 4th month, and we'll do that for next month's payments in June for May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204801	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204802	Dear Minister. Presenting the draft budget that you are today and changing, you said that it was developed and the view of the government was that it was developed and it was in the conditions of normal functioning of the economy. Now we have a crisis situation in the economy where needs are significantly higher, and we have remained at the same level, so this particular finding... we have preserved the expenditures that were, and now that we need to strengthen, now that the needs are much greater, strengthen. It is not just the structure of the state budget as such that it flows from the state register it goes to all the needs it has and logically would be expected now that the needs are greater if the state that stands behind the budget, behind the revenue side, to further increase its investment, its consumption, its investment, to ensure the rapid return of the economy to the one we expect in future time based on what was so far. So here I think there's still a move to make from the current holding state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204803	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204804	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what I've been trying to do in my opening part, actually, and I'm going to elaborate again, so I'm going to say, so the need to increase and grow on the dissipated side of the budget over 7 billion kuna, we've compensated with savings from other items. These savings have not been permanently saved by some of them, permanently eliminated, any delays in certain projects, acquisitions etc., any real savings, Croatia presides over the EU Council, but numerous meetings that should have been planned to take place in Zagreb and throughout Beautiful Ours will not happen or happen because of objective circumstances. So a whole series, and I'd say, of all these things that eventually have to turn into one picture of the budget. But the budget as such is the answer to all these circumstances because on the one hand it ensures the implementation of these measures that we have put into operation, but also, of course, it must look at what will happen after that and just before I answered the question of investments, whether the budget, whether the extra budget users, were all expensive, on this trail we must continue, because how important it is that Croatia fall this year, the first year of the crisis, is so, I would say even more important bids With past experience, how soon we'll be back. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204805	The next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204806	Dear Minister. You've dropped all of the 6.4 billion kunas for support, or part of it is, you're going to, but somewhere there's a figure of about 6.5 billion. Part of this is EU funds, and you know it's all support and it's about support, and you've given it to companies that pay dividends. Are you ready to announce all the companies that paid dividends and got support? Who will control the correctness of this because the State Inspectorate can't do it because he doesn't have the authority, and only an HZZ that doesn't have people. And on the other hand, do you think about, given that you gave tens of millions of kunas to large companies, to enter the state into the property of these companies and to do what Germany did that would get into one big... A very clear question to which I want very clear answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204807	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204808	So clear always the answer you're looking for, of course that's your legitimate right, I can say that we've been thinking about all these things and the details, we've talked about so far, what we've done would be an idea to put the criteria into operation so that they can go ahead and implement these measures as soon as possible. We have all said from the beginning that it will be publicly and transparently known, so so this list, HZZ, was published a few days ago, weeks ago, so we all have an insight from the first to the last one that received both the amount of support and the number of employees. As regards the control itself, whether someone has abused, or whether certain irregularities have been identified, and the HZZ, as you have well said, as a concession provider or such a type, not concessions, pardons but support, is obliged to control, but also other institutions, of course we pair certain data between HZZ, IRS, etc., and of course the institutions will act in accordance with their powers and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204809	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204810	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So I take this opportunity first of all, to commend the government's work and to bring all these measures worth nearly 7 billion kunas that helped the Croatian economy survive this era of the crown and to preserve jobs, not to see those ominous forecasts come true of 400 thousand unemployed. Thank God, this has not happened or will happen, but my question is going towards a further follow-up of projects that have been launched primarily, major infrastructure projects in rail transport and road construction, a concrete project of construction of railways from the Križovci through Koprivnica to the Hungarian border. Also, fast roads from the Križevci towards Koprivnica, whether these projects will continue at a pace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204811	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204812	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The answer is yes, it will continue. The dynamics of course, depending on the overall possibilities, the financial plans relating to individual extra-financial users or state-owned enterprises that are the ones that are taking these types of investments, we tried to fit into these things that you are talking about, which is to continue investment flows, but again I say, and in accordance with certain and certain possibilities. We have worked on this, and we will continue to work, as I have answered earlier, and my colleague Misic on his question about the direction towards Slavonia and Vinkovci, also, Koprivnica-križevci, any part of Croatia, we all know very well what the effects, multiplicative and others are, public investments, of course, more so if they can be further co-financed by EU grants, so that's all we care about, but again, we have to put ourselves in the frame of all our options, and then they will, among other things, dictate that dynamic you asked me about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204813	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204814	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the budget rebalancing and implementation of the State budget have been enabled to redistribute funds within the State budget itself, but also in charge, both domestic and international markets. So, given our foreign exchange reserves, what is the role of the CNB in this case in such a debt and is it really considering using these foreign reserve assets that actually serve to maintain liquidity in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204815	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204816	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what's important and what's kind of a good thing about this crisis is that we've practically been at the table since the first day and brought in and we have the CNB, so their rope leadership, i.e. all the professional services and a few things we've done together, is, in particular, a very important topic about these assets and the source of liquidity, craftsmanship for entrepreneurs and all those affected by the coronary crisis. But also, ensuring liquidity for the whole state's functioning, I think we're all well aware and all in one way, I'd say a little harder way, to see, that is, the importance and role of the state and all its services, the police, the fire department, the health care and that I'm not counting on it now. And it is certainly important that this liquidity be provided in an adequate manner because the CNB is an independent regulator and it, in accordance with its and the legal powers that the Croatian Parliament has given, is acting, however, I think all of these activities that we have done in terms of funding are seen to be, among other things, an integral part of all of our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204817	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204818	Thank you, Vice President. So, Minister, one question. Whether measures to support the economy for the 6th, 7th and 8th months are envisaged in the budget rebalancing or, on the 9th, 10th, the crown will return. Is that somewhere? And the teaching question, therefore, since the expenditure side has remained fully the same 147 billion kuna, since we have no projections for 2021, we can't know in any way how you're going to dig any further holes, and in that part, this budget rebalancing proposal would be incomplete already in the 6th month. What's my question, if you've been redistributing some of the money, so you've taken the Central State Sport Office for sport buildings of 16 million, for local sports and Croatian... 14 million, will you have more to take from anyone or will you go to equalising the VAT rate or raising the VAT as it has been in previous crises? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204819	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204820	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You asked a lot of things, how much do I get, so, as we said at the outset, still representing measures, we had to underline somewhere in time, so as to support measures for the economy, we're talking about measures for March, April and May with payments in the coming months, that's what the budget provides for, as well as measures in the tax section, where we also said, three months with a possible possibility of extension for an additional 3, depending on how the situation is going to be, as such, developing. As for the effects and looks ahead, that in the convergence program is the view of next year. As a rule, we brought the Convergence Programme for a three-year period, this time we agreed at EU level to watch this year and next year and it is very clear, so after the drop of 9.4% this year, we predict a growth of about 6.1%. However, the EU Commission is also more optimistic than we are, even 7.5, and as far as budget deficits are concerned with these 6.8% this year, the next year is 2.4% of GDP. As for VAT and tax policy, we will always talk about it and think about it. No additional tax changes are provided for at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204821	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in the rebalancing regarding additional HBOR funds, so can you please just some number of how currently HBOR has approved funds along with business banks to business entities because we see that HAMAG BICRO is actually, we're reading from the media that in fact all of these funds for coronaryvirus, means for the lending program, that more than 5 thousand requests, are 10% that they've just been processed. We see that this line is already closed and other lines, so here's the clean information maybe around HBOR because you mentioned there would be additional funds, as currently the situation with these funds towards entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204823	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204824	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, on a daily basis I get updated data by 11.5, not only HBOR because through the FINA system, perhaps here, pure information and for you, as we have formed and established this entire system that each interested in liquid assets appears on the FINA web interface, FINA is this unique place where it is, among other things, working and then calculating that so-called FINA. COVID score and afterwards is directed to each commercial bank, i.e. HBOR is the one that will provide that 50% of the funds. To, so yesterday, 8 300 is the calculation of COVID score, the number of applications totaling 15 180, companies are mostly looking for liquidity loans, but also for delays, so the moratories of those credit obligations. Also, all that data and all that, of course, everything in accordance with the legal obligations we will now be doing, clearly and transparently publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204825	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204826	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. We all know that this rebalancing that we're going to discuss today is actually a form, the real rebalancing will come in the fall, when we see real frames and real problems. But what I'm always interested in, and I'm a couple of times, and I've asked you a question about the day after. So, I suppose there are certain arrangements at EU finance ministers' level, I think there are other talks, which means the Green Plan, which means economic development, which means the activities that we will be doing the day after, that Croatia is preparing for some new normality as part of other EU countries. I think that, among other things, with this rebalance and the one that will be in the fall, it is important to stress that we see in which direction we are going, what reforms, which are possibly economic elements, and how much more is the Green Plan that Europe has announced so much. I personally thought it was extremely good and praised, as much as he looked at all, whether he was in some stages and how Croatia would stand up to that Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204827	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204828	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the lesson and just now that my colleague Zekanovic, the esteemed representative, has also opened as a topic, you are now refering to it. So at EU level the focus is on one side, as in our case, so what we can do in the short term in these circumstances, and among other things, we are talking about revising that European Stabilisation Mechanism, and we are talking about this so-called "Stabilisation Mechanism". SURE employee support program, but just like us, we're focused pretty much on exactly what you said, the day after. So look ahead and after this. And that's why he's so-called. Recovery Fund or Recovery Fund, something to start talking about and talking about. I have said it several times, yet it is 27 member states and we cannot expect the speed of designing and implementing the measures to be as fast as we do, but this is among other things something that is parallel to the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which, here is now co-cidating with COVID, but actually represents the future 7 years, i.e. the next 7-year financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204829	Next replica, distinguished representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204830	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have noticed one interestingness in this budget, although practically in the same portfolio, two extra-profit users of the state budget of Croatia and the Environmental Protection Fund, practically have a diametrically opposite financial situation. One of them is in debt for 700 million kuna, and the other have surpluses of over a billion kuna that are transferred from year to year. Of course, this individual approach, therefore, to its problems with banks, benefits exclusively from banks. And secondly, I have compared that clientelism as a definition of decision-making for the allocation of funds is very present, i.e. You mentioned 41 million for condensation boilers, for example in the Environmental Protection Fund. So whoever knows the energy and solves the heat system today wouldn't be able to separate that kind of state money for something that's only 5 to 10 times better and the whole import equipment is, so that money is could be in the function of developing the economy through solutions for which we have domestic producers, unfortunately not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204831	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204832	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I know that, in general, you know, when you have acted as a minister as important, important financial plans and the budget of extra- budget users, I know that in general and when we are talking in the Assembly, a very small percentage of the replica and the debate comes down to them, I think that they are important from the perspective of public finances but even more from the perspective of their contribution to economic activity and what we are trying to do all the time and as much as possible to push towards the fact that this investment activity is the one that creates economic value, which gives added value, so now when we speak and analyze each of them individually, but mainly when we look at all together and surely their financial plans should maintain the naturally limited possibilities we are now facing, there were just a few questions about road and rail infrastructure, but also as regards energy recovery, protection from some floods etc., etc. These are all things that should be foreseen in the financial plans as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204833	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204834	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Well, none of the governments in the 2020 budget accounted for an epidemic of the coronary virus, let alone the consequences of this epidemic. The current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I think, is perfectly dealing with all these challenges, all the statistics are talking about, and when we talk about the rebalancing of this budget, it is important to stress that it does not stop with investment because investment means jobs. When we talk about the area of Varazdin County, it has been built since 2002. Trying to build an OS St. Elijah. Since then, six governments have changed and only in the term of office has this one started to build and I hope that in the next two years it will be built, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204835	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204836	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's your replica, too. Well, here's to teaching and the previous ones involved, I repeat rail, road infrastructure, environmental protection infrastructure, water and, of course, the education system. We're here, what you said and you noticed at last week's and the government's meeting on the school in St. Iliji but also some other schools I would say, even in the media space, the public space already knows, can also list the school of N. Andric in Vukovar, the crafts school in Sisak, Donji Miholjac, Krapina, Split, Children's center in Zadar, is located in Sl. Schools for children with special needs, M. Ambruš, i.e. with developmental difficulties, M. Stojanović in Babina Greda as well as in Čakovec, so all these schools are listed in one conclusion of the Government that, among other things, depending on the different dynamics and implementation of certain measures whether the collection of documentation, procurement, competition and so on, the realization that the Government is behind these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204837	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204838	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's a very difficult situation, and I believe it's been a very hard job to prepare a rebalance for which we've all been a little bit and we've been afraid it's going to look, but given the government's decision to support both the economy and our citizens, I think we've done a pretty solid job, and I'm just interested, there's a certain reduction means redistribution because there's no, meaning spending cuts, there are certain obligations that have been made by signing contracts with institutions, associations, economics, etc., so I'm wondering if these contracts will be fulfilled by the basis of those rules as they're signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204839	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204840	And under the most difficult circumstances as these are, of course, the rule of law as such must be, and so certain obligations that have been made, should be discussed and negotiated and taken into account and new circumstances but also, at least our position as Government and we have shown this in several cases, not only to go without such a kind of dialogue. So, in the given circumstances as you know, I will repeat once again, practically 1/5 of the revenue has been cut out from the state budget itself, so 23.2 billion kuna for this year that we are not going to collect, then, of course, some other items on the expenditure side must be audited, but we are always ready for dialogue, for discussion, for constructive approach, if something cannot be realised within the shortest possible time, of course, there is some dynamic component that we then take into account and so on what you refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204841	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your opening work, you mentioned extracurricular users. So their original incomes have been reduced by 11% compared to the plan, but there has been a decrease in costs at an opportunity of 4%. Also, a very important segment in the rebalancing of this budget is the unambiguous assets that will be given in terms of loans to local self-government units, why am I saying this? Because, as is predicted to reduce the income of extra budget users, there will also be a reduction in the incomes of local self-government units not only from income tax, but also from the basis of municipal compensation, and these are the two highest income units of local self-government and what, with all the good that the government has done with these measures to preserve jobs and all the expensive, what must not happen to us in the future, that what I say, in a certain way, under the government's cap, it becomes an indifference generator because, if that happens to us, then we are in great danger. So now, given these indicators, we have an opportunity to act preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204843	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're right because that's exactly what one of our basic intentions of all these measures was to focus on preserving jobs and paying salaries, preserving liquidity systems. Not only are countries such as those in some narrow or narrowest circle or sense, but also much wider, the state is big, the state has very much of its own in some way dealings with different segments, not just economies and societies and states, which should make it easier for others to have their liquid problems, and not in some way even make them impossible and difficult. So what I was saying at the outset, when I spoke to the speaker about the financing account, that our intention from the beginning was that all of these financing needs were, as far as possible, centralized, not because of some discretionary decision, but rather because of a simpler way, not that now 576 units are going on the capital market and financial markets in search of liquidity. It's much simpler that we at the central level and then these estimated 2 billion and 900, as we have now placed in the financing account in an adequate way according to the criteria that we have established, disperse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204845	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204846	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, congratulations to you and the Ministry of Finance, the entire government on everything you do to keep public finances on one level that is promising. What interests me is the tax on accommodation units, the flat tax that was already in question today. Since I come from local self-government, and we have almost 110 thousand small tenants on the coast and they certainly expect this tourist season, and every expenditure is important to them. So I ask, given some of the possibilities that exist, which is your next move. Whether we're going to have at least a partial write-off, a full write-off, means all the debts we have for this year, given the season it's going to be, or maybe you'll give local self-government a chance to make some different decisions in the course of the year, given that you've brought that power down to them through tax changes, which may also be one of the solutions. But, of course, we'll see what happens during the season, but at least some hope to see what happens on that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204847	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204848	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, teaching what my colleague Grbin had just asked, I didn't have time to answer everything, but therefore, and it's well quoted from the Tax Administration website, so we didn't ignore that segment either, so private renters, given the circumstances and given the forecasts regarding the tourist season, surely one part that will, and of course, have effects. At the same time, as I said earlier, so it's in terms of tax, sort of a burden, among the lowest, if not the lowest tax segment as such, but of course, we mustn't ignore it. So, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, as this system is formed, it is paid quarterlyly, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, it is practically, the release has already been done as such, it writes very clearly also in those criteria that we have defined and prescribed and which stand on the tax administration's website. For more and more, as so far, as far as local self-government is concerned, we are very often open to this topic, ready and open to discussions, depending on the development of the situation, you know, when we started with this additional fiscal decentralisation, that we knew and extended certain deadlines for city and municipal councils to make such decisions. So, about that we're always ready to sit at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204849	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today you have unfortunately avoided answering many direct questions. I'll just remind you. So how many state institutions, HBOR and HAMAG have granted loans so far, not how many applications, but how many have they approved? The second question is, why didn't you ban the payment of profits to companies that used support to preserve jobs? My colleague Miranda is the question. Why didn't you let the big companies that took large amounts through this support, get the state into co-ownership of these companies. Half%, 1%, 3%, but for the record. Why did you say that support here is compensated by investment costs, more or less, and even from EU funds. Therefore, investment, wage cuts and the rest which has a very negative impact on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204851	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204852	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I also expected your particular replica or question, not the sublimation of all the previous ones. I will submit everything to my colleagues by the end of the debate, as well as to everyone, as regards the specific figures of HBOR and HAMAG, I simply cannot have all the data available at all times. I gave that report I get every morning, and that's about those demands. As approved, as regards HBOR, as regards commercial banks, they will also communicate clearly. Why we didn't or did something, so here, let me, of course, we can always elaborate, but it's ours, I won't say right, but also the obligation to look at broader aspects, so I didn't rule out those proposals or what Mrsic said as some kind of thesis from our further talks. I said that we have established certain criteria that are quite simple and quite passing, but I have not eliminated the possibility of these criteria being corrected, i.e. to be as such, possibly even sharpened, depending on what the first find will show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204853	Thank you. Now we've exhausted these first replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204854	Very specific, but here, I wanted to set it up now because I knew I'd discuss it after this replica. So, the key question in this rebalancing which is definitely barbaric at 15. 6, so this is the rebalancing first in a series that will happen this year and he de facto is now recording one situation where we are at the moment but is not giving answers to what will be behind 15. Six. Why are we talking about 15? Six? Because 15. 6. the key measure expires and de facto in the budget the most important and financially and in any other way and relates to the preservation of jobs. Therefore, a measure of 6.8 billion kuna, with the exemption from the payment of contributions to all those companies that had losses above 50% of their income. And we still don't have the answer, so that's my key question, which is going to be from those 500 jobs behind 15. Six? Where is the decision to extend the measure for the next 3 months, where is the money to be financed in this budget? It's not there, it's not in there. That's the key questions, people. So, I'd like these defensive forecasts of some analysts that there will be 400,000 unemployed at the end of the year, I think it's an exaggeration. But I also think that at this point, as much as 170,000 people without a job and that very easily of these 500 000, at least, those who are directly and indirectly connected to tourism, could really be out of a job. The estimates are in tourism that income will be somewhere at 25, up to 30% of what we achieved last year. We just said 11% in gross added value directly and at least another 10% is the indirect impact of tourism, so you count now. So you have to protect these people, so these people need to know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. And even if there's trouble, and if they really finish one piece, let's say a hundred thousand people, which is very likely of these 500, end up at the employment office, you there have to secure money, new money for unemployment benefits. And I didn't see that money either, so I rightly claim that this rebalancing is absolutely temporary, very improvised in all of its elements and that it covers only the state until the end of June of this year. So, it just goes into the electoral phase, in a way it wants to cover up the details and these important things, I would say which here I am trying to point out to the Croatian public today. There's one more thing I want to say. All the countries in our environment, apart from the measures for the economy, had measures for the citizens, the SDP in time identified it, put together a package, the package was weighing 2 billion kuna, you did not appreciate it, unfortunately, I will only tell you what the Slovenian neighbours did. They gave the pensioners between 130 and 300 euros depending on the amount of pension, giving self-employed a monthly income of 700 euros, 700 euros, for all those who lost their trade or interest due to the crisis. Are farmers and fishermen also treated by self-employed also the basic income of 700 euros? even gave students in Slovenia 150 euros per student. Why? Because only consumption and demand in the short term can retain such economic activity and prevent this fall from happening to us. Imagine, people have invested more and have a lower GDP drop, so they have a bigger deficit but they have a lower GDP decline and we have a smaller deficit and we have a bigger GDP decline. It's a fundamental economic logic in situations like this. Why is it that the Croatian government has been boasting all the time that it's taken care of finances, that it's a much better situation at the moment, that the prime minister is always talking about it, that it's a much better situation than it was 10 years ago or 12, 2008, and that it's all great, but we haven't taken advantage of our fiscal stimulant, or so on. The fiscal basis as they call it there at the IMF is 1.7%, unlike Slovenians whose fiscal stimulant, so I'm only talking about the budget, only what goes through the budget, not through HBOR, not through HAMAG, not through the banking system, not liquidity, only fiscal stimulant, 6.5% and about 3.5 billion euros, respectively, were poured through these support. You can laugh and I will bring you, here during the debate I will bring you a copy of the measures of the Slovenian government that speaks of the 6.5% support, our colleague, my colleague and your colleague and a friend might say, Velimir Shonje wrote about it, read a little of his contribution, I believe that you appreciate Shonja as well as I appreciate it, so from his article I pulled this data on a limited fiscal stimuli related directly to the budget. Croatia 1.7%, Slovenia 6.5%. And there's no dilemma at all, you can laugh now, it raises that question, but here, it's obviously the style of today's debate unlike any of us so far I'd say the debate in which you were much more confident, much more convincing, you didn't hide some important things and facts, and today the situation is clearly quite different when we have 25 billion registered deficits in this rebalancing and when we have very, very much more uncertainty and risks and hidden deficits. Now we're talking about local self-government, here's the mayor and the mayor, let them tell you what their budget deficit is going to be. The billion you've been counting on your projections is what you would say, a grain of salt, so that's nothing compared to what kind of deficit in local self-government is going to be. So a billion kunas and more than that will have only the city of Zagreb. Well, the other day, the mayor went out to a press conference with his whole world and said he was going to miss a billion kunas in the budget. And where are the other 555 units in the state? What are we people talking about? So I don't want to spread defetism here, but let's face it, this is a major crisis, a serious crisis, with a great uncertainty of what's going to happen in the coming weeks and months, and you have to be aware that the country is 4 months away, now that we're going into elections, 4 months. until the formation of a new government, you can't leave in a vacuum, you haven't brought in measures to protect jobs or extend it, you haven't solved a moratorium on loans legally to 12 months, people taking buses, charters, apartments that they built, apartments, etc., banks and Leasing societies because they have no other choice, no legal framework for extending moratorium deadlines, no liquidity loans, I'll give you an answer. Therefore, none of the credits of the commercial banks were granted either without guarantee or with the guarantee of the HBOR or of the State. That's the information, I have it and you obviously don't have it. So nothing's done, nothing's done that we can normally get into another part of this extremely crisisful and uncertain year. This isn't a criticism just for you, I'm the only grudge we have for you that I would say with fear, because it's closer to an election and it's hard to admit this situation that we are in right now, but people need to be told the truth and the truth is just like this. He threatens to quit, threaten to lose jobs especially in the tourist activity and the tourism sector and all related activities. Everyone else may be able to adapt somehow, but there will be the biggest problem, so people need to overcome this situation, they need to be introduced by 12 months moratories, they need to be given liquidity loans, they need to be able to survive this, and then somehow we're going to fight to get the GDP back and get the whole situation back into a more favourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, today's figures on the structure of the rebalancing actually show us the structure of the Croatian economy and what's actually the fact is that when the economy falls 9%, that the taxes that are, especially these consumption taxes that make us most of our budget are going down faster. So GDP falls at a rate of 22%, excise duties per rate of 16%, means indirect taxes, so we're talking about consumer taxes because that's just how our economy's structure is, we have a larger share of services, it shows us actually our balance of payments shows us that the larger service structure in 2020 than it was in 2008, so we're focused on renting, on services, on exporting services, and actually when this happens, one such locking of the economy, we see that I give tax revenues that are actually a degree of budget, fall under two digits, and that's what's actually a big warning. What is only positive between 2008 and 2020 is access to financial markets. I did say that one big bond of a billion and 250 million dollars is under in 2010 so that I don't say the severe torments were ever issued at all, by 6% interest, when, by me and that structure and deficit wasn't what we have today and we see that today the minister says that we can borrow 0.7% means 0.7% we can be in debt when we report a 25 billion deficit and actually when it was a structure, when it was a different structure, we couldn't take even interest of 6%. E means the structure of the financial market has changed completely, completely changed, and it is the only and only instrument of the government that can defend the crisis, and that makes the government the only instrument of borrowing either through pension funds or through banks or the CNB through the creation of offers because money is so cheap that it is at 0.5, 0.7% to 1%, and that is the last and only dam of the entire economic activity. Let's be honest and realistic, and this part of the money paid to the citizens, these 6 billion kunas exclusively comes in debt, the minister himself said that... The EU institutions are much more threefold in the approval of funds to Member States and in this context and exclusively both the last dams of both this budget and the rebalancing and the economy are borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was actually said here and that is unfortunately not the time, but certainly the state of the public business. The minister here talked about extra- budget users, 10 of them who went from 700 million plus to 2400 minus, meaning delta about 3 billion kuna, but the question is what else is the state of the wider part of the public business, and we know that especially from the transport sector, that they were in the minus when they were good times, when they were better times that they were in the minus, we know that the traffic is not, we know that the tourist will not be, the question is, what will happen to Croatia Airlines, what will happen to Jadrolinia, airports, the number of public enterprises that are not part of this budget but are in fact indirectly bound to the budget, so they are certainly directly bound by the locking and inability of citizens to travel, so it will surely come to the government in the future, or to the Ministry for some additional funds, which are certainly the risks of additional burden. What's most important here is to say that the economy is trust and that it's one consumer psychology. What has been announced, and measures themselves now see that many epidemiologists are announcing that there will be a continuation of the recession or crisis of the virus in the 9th month and that consumer psychology is very simple, delaying all possible purchases. We see that in the 4th month, only a thousand cars were purchased or registered in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that any major purchases other than bread, flour, oil, sugar, etc. Those needs mean people only buy it, they delay everything else. And that's the problem, that's the problem of whether it's going to be a 9% drop, 15 or 20. All investments, private investments, if citizens don't know, entrepreneurs don't know what locking will be, it's the biggest problem and budgets and rebalances and economies. Consumer psychology, not knowing what will happen in the 9th month, all have closed not only this part but there will be no private sector investment and there will be no spending, it is the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204856	Thank you. The next debate is Nikola Grumoja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204857	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's budget rebalancing shows the first signs of the seriousness of the economic crisis ahead of us, however, it is only a technical and temporary rebalancing that can hardly be based on some more serious assessments. Still, Croatia and the Croatian economy depend in many ways and are susceptible..., no one knows how the epidemiological situation will develop and not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world. As with other countries, we have only begun to give in to quarantine measures, and we will yet see the economic consequences of this whole story. What seems certain, however, is that the Croatian coronary economy will be more affected by the crisis than the EU average. The European Commission's first forecasts again put us at the very beginning of the nearly 10% GDP decline and we are again in a group of countries with Greece, Italy and Spain that will suffer the most. Clearly in the government, they will say that they are not responsible for the coronary virus nor for this crisis, and that this crisis has affected all EU countries without exception. However, when we look at forecasts for some other countries where GDP will fall to 4 or 5%, we can view these figures with a certain jealousy, knowing that their governments and their economic policies have been better and more successful than our government's policies and not a little more successful than twice as successful. Similarly, previous crises have taught us that our economic recovery lasts up to three times longer than the more successful and stable European economies. All indications are that we will look at the same scenario and now, we can all thank this government for failing to implement the necessary reforms in our mandate. As far as this rebalancing is concerned, I also said through the replica, and its indicators, it is clear that the elections at the door do not reduce budget spending by a single kuna. On the other hand, there is an enormous drop in budget revenues, about 23 billion kuna, and that is 16%, but these are just forecasts that are now more based on astrology than on reliable and final indicators, so we will learn the real truth and the state of things only after the election. What we are particularly concerned about is the decline of 500 million kuna in the EU aid item, this is particularly strange given all the information coming from the government that the EU will come up with programmes and allocate countries special means to combat the economic consequences of the crisis. The reduction in this revenue item also shows what and what extent investment funding is, in fact, an investment financed by EU funds, and we believe that such a conceptual approach in the fight against this economic crisis is wrong. In the European budget, Croatia has so far paid 21 billion kuna since we became a member, so far we have not been celebrated in withdrawing funds from the EU and stopping projects now that we are at the end of a multi-annual financial framework seems irrational. What is still worrying us about in the overall economic picture of Croatia is the expected decline in exports by 15%, while at the same time increasing imports of 12%, so our external trade balance that is not brighter and worsen anyway. Of course, with all these threats and galloping the rise of unemployment. The government forecasts are that this rate will rise from 6.6% to 9.5%, we in MOST personally think that the situation in reality will be worse, and since we started opening borders we can expect to return to Croatia a solid number of our people who have moved out of Croatia in recent years, and now they could be out of a job that they once went to. The measures to preserve jobs, so-called jobs, will also expire soon. And then we'll just start facing the right proportions of this crisis and the consequences for the citizens. So I asked Minister Maric in the replica not to tell me and assess how he is experiencing the atmosphere of citizens, whether they are positive or negative, I didn't think he was some kind of psychologist who should answer such questions. I asked him on concrete financial indicators if they are, and it will be much worse in the 9th and 10th months, it is clear that the mood of Croatian citizens and their existence will be threatened and it is clear why this government is pushing the elections now and why until yesterday, those in self-insulation were bioterrorists, and today they are those who are called to the polls, all they need is to put a mask on their faces. So, what does it matter here? MOST has all the time proposed concrete measures that applied to this period of quarantine and impasse in economic social life, but some of our measures are also measures for the day after we leave quarantine to make economic recovery and take off faster, more dynamic and powerful. Our measures follow a real change, a change of paradigm, a change in how the state applies to the economy and the private sector in the first place, treating it as a partner and a partner, not as a sheep for cutting and a rag for living. For now, the state has taken over the burden of crisis, the burden of liquidity and the burden of a good share of workers' wages. We will pay this burden through an increase in public debt, will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including those who will come to this world, children who are due today or tomorrow to be born, and we will pay for it for years after this pandemic of the Coronal Virus ends. We've been talking all this time about respected public sector savings ministers, especially at local and county level. The crisis has clearly shown that counties are no longer meaningful, no role, that they are only disturbing and slowing development and that they need to be abolished without mercy. So, the Republic of Croatia is a country, I remind you all here, of barely 4 million people and it's quite enough that it has two levels of government, central and local, and that both of them are effectively organised, that their powers are not overlapping and that they work for the benefit of citizens, not for the sake of petty private breakthroughs of local party boundaries. Our vision of the Republic of Croatia is clear. A vision of the Republic of Croatia with strong cities and municipalities and a strong central state. Those who propose regions, we all know that there will be nothing of it, never will Dubrovnik agree to be under Split, never will Zadar agree to be under Split, never will Sibenik agree under Zadar and never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka. So, from the region there's nothing, it's a missed concept. A much better concept is a strong central state, strong cities and municipalities without counties as some kind of, I would say, just a transfer of money, and in that transfer there is much, much loss. We see how, on incompetent actually mayors, on incompetent personnel like Mr. Sanader, Boban and others who have enabled this chaos that is happening now in Split and Split-Dalmatia County. We need an immediate removal of parafiscal duties, we suggested it here, the abolition, while at least this crisis, membership fees for HGK and HTZ, you refused. So at this point, we have 448 different parafiscal burdens that take the economy and citizens nearly 9 billion kunas. That money should be given to the citizens, that money should be given to the entrepreneurs. So, we only suggested that two parafiscal charges be abolished, and that would leave about 600 million kuna in the pockets of Croatian citizens. We are also disappointed by the fact that the government has rejected our proposal that entrepreneurs should only permanently pay VAT when they charge their invoices, not that such a rule applies in only 3 months. And what I have to say in the end, I wouldn't be too long. This government is constantly working in the interest of banks. Here at HS colleagues Bačić, a colleague of Grozdana Perić, defended banks, not Croatian citizens. They stopped here and stood up as bank lawyers. What we urgently need, which was done by Slovenia, by the moratorium on loans and interest. The first measure Slovenia adopted in March was a moratorium on loans and interest. What did this government do? We suggested this in February. This government has brought a moratorium to implementation in April of the month and only until the election. So, if you had brought it as Slovenians in March to the election when you planned it, that measure would have expired. This shows how much you care about Croatian citizens. The only thing you care about is your election result, and there's nothing we can do about it, and we won't get back together. Here in HS and in the public we will serve Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, we will account for it, and you will continue to serve banks, you will continue to watch some of your future arrangements, you will continue to watch some of your loans, and we will only take our bills to the dear God and the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204858	The next debate is on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished representatives Radin and Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. "Anus Horribilis" could be called, it could be called this year, a terrible year. The impact of the coronary pandemic on the health, social and economic system is extremely negative throughout the world, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, Zagreb and its surroundings hit the strongest earthquake in the past 140 years on 22 March 2020, causing major infrastructure damage and additional pressure on functioning public services, on the functioning of public services. Following this, of course, there was a huge decline in GDP, of 9.4%, with all components on the spending side of GDP except state spending to record a decline. If we look at the situation in the EU, we'll see that we didn't do well here, so 9.4%, and in the EU they were lighter and they wrote 9.1%, but also 9.1% puts us in 4th place from behind. Only Spain, Italy and Greece are behind us for GDP damage. The share of public debt in GDP in 2020 will grow by 13.5% compared to 2019, which will be 86% or 87% of GDP and the unemployment rate will be 3.3%. So like I said before, "annus horribilis". The lack of general budget will, of course, produce a pay drop, writes a moderate wage drop, but whether or not it will be moderate, we will see. The new plan in 2020 will also lack the general budget, which will amount to 8 GDP or 28.9 billion kuna according to the national methodology. The expenditure of the 2020 budget shall be kept at the same level as the total amount of 147.3 billion kuna. And now we're going to do what's interesting to us from the national minorities. The National Minorities Council, according to the new proposal for a state budget, will have reduced funds, but only 0.3%, and it will all refer to a reduction in the administration's item, not donations to national minority associations. On the other hand, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Funds for the office will decrease by 4.3%, but not for programmes for national minorities where funds are reduced by only 0.1%. So in other words, to say how I see this thing, there was a fact that almost four years of 3.5 years since the election, the operational plan for national minorities has actually been achieved to the extent that we consider insufficient and that now in the finals they have to be done and certain projects have to be completed. These projects concern what ensures the survival of the identity of national minorities or at least an attempt because we will never stop saying that those who believe that national minorities are given too much money to come to us and we will prove to them with a pen and paper that national minorities in order to really keep their identity and their cultural autonomy should have far more resources than they have now. But it's been that way for years, so we'll keep that in mind. There are some things in this budget that are obviously a mistake, e.g. One new item is actually an old item and it is the famous Italian school Leonardo da Vinci from Buje, reconstruction and addition of the school where it is written that an increase of 7 million 895 thousand kuna is planned. No increase is planned, in fact, what happened constantly in the operational plan for national minorities, we are being downloaded, so the item has been downloaded from this budget and reintroduced and reintroduced and it looks like it's one big increase in the budget on that item. I'd like to be such an increase, but not an increase is actually a zero. Also, of course in that horrible year we are in that horrible year, we are grateful that it has been retained, as we are grateful that it was held in the Ministry of Culture held funds for the publishing house “Edit” which is the only one, and only one minority has its daily presses that is the Italian minority, it is obvious evidence that the funds are actually in the extreme line insufficient, but we are grateful that in that year it is still... contained in... minorities and in the Ministry of Culture. You, Mr. Vice President, will now give your word to Mr. Bilek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204860	Dear Representative Bilek, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few months ago, we really talked in a completely different direction. When we were making this state budget, we predicted only growth of those 2.5%, we had good indications, we were doing some things proposals for new projects, cooperation programmes for the withdrawal of European funds, unfortunately here's what happened, something we couldn't expect. Now the projections are quite different, the projections have received one negative connotation, but when we compare everything and look at the situation with the health situation in the Republic of Croatia is much better than some other countries, so we can thank the rapid reactions of both government and headquarters, but above all, all of our citizens who have followed and all the services that have done this big part of the job. It worked immediately at the beginning with the first measures, second, third measures, etc., of course in the first hand, and HS granted approval to make redistributions in that case. The redistributions were correct, they went straight to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it had stopped then, if the state had closed down then, if she hadn't let the money go into circulation, what would have happened? Then what some here said would happen, then 500,000 unemployed would happen, then there would be a huge decline in GDP, an increase in debt, a borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, and a question at all if we got out of a crisis like this. We are now even in some better trends than some EU member states, not to say some countries in the neighbourhood, but that is because it has been invested. So the government didn't close the valve, so let's call it, the Ministry of Finance and all the rest of the state budget followed the needs of the market, the funds came to the expense of companies, trades, companies, OPGs, all those who could and requested government measures. This did not stop consumption given how much it could have been blocked entirely in the shuttle down we still had certain things, construction firms and some others that were doing their processes, but we did get to this. We have come to the fact that we have to change the items in the Croatian state budget so that we can continue such a trend that is not good, is not good for anyone in the world, unfortunately it is not good for us either, but in this situation it may be the best that it can be. Such a trend as the Government as well as our ministries, but also state-owned companies are still in the process of telling the investment cycle where our domestic companies are employed, where they are being built, where everything that can be done for people to earn their salaries, to make companies work. So are our counties, our cities in this part of here are secured 2 billion kunas of unscathed borrowing for local self-government units, more than 2 billion kunas, which will help breathe and continue all projects. Let us not forget that projects of local importance, regardless of whether to build homes, whether to edit roads, whether it is kindergarten or anything else where our domestic construction companies are also projects of sustainable development for all citizens in these areas, but also for the breathing of the economy. Without that, there are no salaries, no payments, no health care, no systems, but no spending means no business for trade, production and everything else. And that's exactly how the state invested in production, not only in the consumer part but in the production because the funds went directly to our citizens. As for achieving the rights of national minorities and as far as the state budget is concerned, aware that some items will suffer this situation, aware that there will be no power to implement certain programmes and projects that we have drawn up, but it has been monitored in the budget, we knew that some items will not be sustainable. But I'm glad that about creating assumptions and cultural autonomy as regards the Council for National Minorities that we have succeeded in the dialogue to prove that this is a fundamental matter for the functioning, not only of the associations and institutions of national minorities but of the cultural but also of the rest of the lives of our citizens in this area because there are also grounds for the lives of people, the existence of institutions, such as... The Daruvar, which is in any or "Edit" spoken of by his colleague, is in any earthquake in the financing of these funds. People get paid, people lose their jobs on that side, that's what's important. Also in my earlier question, the Minister of Finance in fulfilling the obligations under the signed contracts, I received the answer that these obligations will be respected, that this part of the reserve is being held, so it is in this budget rebalancing. On that side, I'm glad that we can safely go to further months that may not be as promising as we'd like to be because of course we don't know what's waiting for us in the 10th, 11th month, but we have some basic security measures to go. On the other hand, there are measures through three ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, which are used again in the areas of national minorities by all citizens regardless of what nationality they are. There are several gaps, so we talked about this part in private, I believe there have been some errors in the ministries, some of the ministries in coordination are about it if we need to invest some amendments, but I believe that we will communicate it on both sides and afterwards support the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204862	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204863	Thank you very much. As I mentioned to the minister, somehow there was an expectation that catching with a crisis means a lot more engagement, is one thing, we've learned already in the past, we can do denial all the time, I'm going to cut down some of my spending, I'm going to stop what I might have planned, I'm going to stay in some frames, but it's already proved as in any family budget, there's no progress, but there you are, you're just hanging in there, you're simply in that frame that you've given, and whatever needs you can't move forward, you're not moving. Now here, speaking of the state budget, we can also talk in a regular normal procedure when the economy is in its swing, when it has its accumulation, it is making investments, of course with the government's budget spending giving additional components of GDP, but this time that component is lagging out, our industrial production is falling, totaling GDP looking, meaning import-export elements, what we're talking about, and the commission has found that we are among the four countries that are going to have the biggest GDP decline of over 9%. So, we have Italy, Spain, and don't take me for the fourth word. So all of these other countries have a significantly smaller decline, the declines range between 5% and 9%. We're the ones who end up shaking the most... When we break and there is now where the budget rebalancing should be, will this be the one that I think is necessary in the sight of a desire ruling to dissipate the parliament or will be the next to come with a delay where we are wasting extra time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's necessary that when we touch that, when we hit the bottom, we can go up there, and that's what's important is how much we give. Who may have followed a little bit of Germany, the German Minister of Finance, what does he require? It also requires additional borrowing, means an increase in their borrowing in Germany so that they can inject their economy as strongly as possible to remove them as soon as possible. So we have two, two worlds. One is so developed, let's say a concept that has already shown its success and that is why we always take Germany for an example in which direction we should think, but on the other hand, so we always do the opposite, always looking at how we're going to make savings. Saved up somewhere, moved somewhere else. The maximum range of the budget is we're gone, we're here. So we have increased needs, and our budget is in the same frames. Now, are we gonna make a move with those funds? Hard, hard, even the way I think. But two components would stand out which, for which our citizens and entrepreneurs had the highest expectations, are the component of the Ministry of Agriculture and the component of the Ministry of Economy. Agriculture has been discussed a great deal, meaning that certain sectors of agriculture will have significant difficulties where support for small, especially smaller agricultural economies has been discussed, and there have been many during these two months of initiatives, attempts. In the end, this rebalance shows actually direction. The total budget for agriculture will increase by 0.6%. It was you that all this crisis was worth, right now it's 0.6% to the government. They believe it is necessary to add to the agriculture sector to resolve all this together. Impossible, simply impossible, no, we can't do that, especially that we live in areas that are extremely agricultural aware that any economic operator, say by 0.6% to give you cash, what now on account, what are we going to do, what would be the answer? Here, don't thank me. Don't do that, there's probably going to be a condition that's going to be even more burdensome to us, it's either simple or we've got a real shift or we're not moving. So these funds from the Ministry of Agriculture didn't go into the luft before, they were also contained in, in investments, in agricultural consumption, for agricultural progress, and now we should say by 0.6 let's change the current situation. Alid, I'm going to go local now, so look back at the area I come from as representative of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, minus 37% on funds. Puff! So, that policy goes, we help that area to advance it, to reach it, it's experienced with the first one, with the first disorder that happens tectonically. So, when the Republic of Croatia sneezes a little bit, and it's actually very coughing compared to other countries, then Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem get pneumonia. Here, this is about the message that is sent through this, and especially when we come through rural development measures where somehow the potential of retreating in these areas in a greater minus, 86 million kuna is predicted where the primary reduction of the component from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, somehow it seems to me that this rebalancing under the name of the crown will cover those gaps that as a state we had in withdrawing EU funds that would simply say, will now be asked for an excuse under the crown. But if we were to explain what the crown is, and what the funds are, then we would see, we weren't successful in withdrawing the funds so far, that the story that we've been told about success is actually experiencing the collapse now is impossible that we haven't withdrawn those funds in these two months, we haven't pulled them in the previous time, and now we're just going to clean them out of this budget. One entrepreneurial, like this, note, OKFŠ, common useful functions of the forest, not tax giving, popularly called parafiscal impose paid by entrepreneurs. Now there's been so much pressure, there's a desire to reduce something there, at that position there's an increase of 36 million kuna, so these funds are still significantly higher, and instead of showing up this intention we're going to do something about where they're pushing it, even if it's one symbolic reduction that doesn't break that balance between the foresters, but it comes out to the entrepreneurs. It's this item that shows direction that no one wants, and that's, let's go, there's an increase. No, it won't increase the fee, but it just shows that there are more funds than it is, so 30% is increasing. The economy, colleague Horvat, has lost 13%, 400th and a few million kunas. Ha, if we were to compare it to maybe some other countries somewhere, and he would say, "I'm leaving this government to be taken by someone and hit by 13%, I need to go around defending the government's economic policy." It's not just the Ministry of Finance to defend economic policy, it's also the minister of the economy that's expected as a member of the government that the one that promotes economic policy and he needs to say here, we're going to do our best, we're going to cut 13%, but that's people, all right, no problem, that's exactly what you're expecting, we're going to cut down, and you're going to cut something, we're all falling again. Investment support, total budget -30%, OPC, means from the EU but pairs what I was saying about agriculture, -320 million kuna, of which from regional development 319. 22% below the point of strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises -37%. Even the stock supplies we're on in those measures when we've adopted it, let's go buy products, fill in stock supplies to help out what, especially products that don't have a market... to keep it, so it's a pure offer and demand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reduce the position of the offer, demand, if there has been a reduction, demand for prices to remain balanced, withdraw from the market of certain goods, therefore stock supplies can serve, -59 million kuna. I don't know, whatever I touch here, it's actually controversial to adopt this kind of budget rebalance that doesn't really show that we're actually through the budget, so we say our pants off to help the economy, help all the components that exactly those components of GDP that make up, let the entrepreneurial part be emphasized. This way there won't be any more significant wage cuts, I see that's how it is at the level of a collective contract, so it goes to be kept back through the consumption of citizens by that component. A decline in industrial production, a failure to invest what we can expect, 9.4%, we might say, we'd be happy to keep it that way. When someone says next year it's going to be 6.1%, I'd just ask the question, is it from 31.12.2019 and is it 6.1% from that level, or are we going to fall to the bottom first and then we're going to fall 6.1% to the bottom. No, I know, it makes sense, but when you present it to people in one title, this year we fall 9.4%, we grow 6.1 per year, it's not the same base. It's not 100%, so let's go, now we're down 9.4 so we're going to grow to 106 commas something. It's not like that. We're going at 92.8, add 6. A little math now, but when the papers show it, it's like we're 3% different. It's not a 3% difference. Here's to the end, always the part that we look less at this particular part of the budget, but we also need to look at the other ones that are users of that state budget. And something I noticed in the Croatian highways, they explained that they gave up planned procurement for investment maintenance and construction because traffic load was reduced. So it turns out that our roads, since there was no traffic, I don't know, trucks or cars during these two months, are actually in great shape, that there's no need. Walk a little towards Slavonia, colleague Hajdukovic is driving there so he may not reach that part behind, but there he is, so the highway has failed, which should be invested intensively, means only investment-based, not one new building that needs to be maintained. I say we give up because there's no traffic, so it doesn't make sense, let's go now that it's less traffic, let's go rebuild it and be ready to increase that, but, look, that's something I've noticed like that. Croatian roads, expenditures of non-financial assets -17%, on fast roads, I will, again, say so little locally, from a srijem transversal much to be talked about, definitely nothing and will make one remark and exactly the Ministry of Finance about the clarification, when Croatian roads give their plan, which we have adopted, and indicate some of the infrastructure, key infrastructures they want to build, then also, when they are doing rebalancing and reducing, should specify which projects they give up. Because like this, we should now ask you, what projects they're giving up and you'll say, here, I don't know, what, ask Minister Butkovic, he should know or someone from the Croatian Roads. Then let's go out with it, that 110 million kuna of fast roads, where is it? What are those fast roads, what are the rest of them, that are left out? And I'm curious, and I'd like to know that information, too, here's the question, so I hope the Ministry's representative will communicate with it when he has his own insight that he can point out. This is how we should vote on something, I can't vote if it concerns something that might be of interest to an area, especially if I come from that area. And another ambitious plan, in the CERP, sales of shares in companies, is something that is constantly going on by each government, always opening certain names of certain companies because they are of particular importance, less special, there are discussions, and then predicting each year something goes on in so-called. privatisation and there is income from that position, for this year 25 million is planned. Now we have an increase of 55 million kuna. So, in terms of economic downturn, we're willing to sell state property and that significantly higher share than planned, then I'm just asking the question of whether the planned prices will be realized? If there is a crisis right now, I know that there is access to financial resources, but is there enough economic activity and economic operators who would be interested in entering such investments or certain funds that would want us to achieve such growth? It means that CERP should practically increase its engagement by 2/3 and make sales, and that's just to settle the budgeting. I'm just afraid that we're not going to be in the direction again to quickly collect some cash, so the less we have to be in debt, and later after a certain time we'll be discussing whether in a year or two we could achieve a significantly better price of the price being realized in 2019, when the pro-pulsively any situation in the economy was certainly a better basis for achieving a better price than now when we have such a significant degradation where caution suggests that the offered amount should not be too exposed to being realistically lower than those that would be in the run of the economy or on the rise. Here, these were some thoughts and in the name of our club, in fact that there are no of these choices then we would probably discuss it in more detail, and this is now going to be quick to survive election time, and then the real budget will be discussed by some, rebalance of some new calling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204864	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204865	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the amending budget for 2020. Of course the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Every time we discuss budgets or changes, we don't have a very big audience and we don't have that much interest, although it's a basic document of one country, from which everything is seen and from which everything can be read and trends and guidelines, and I think that all paragraphs are insufficient and spoken and insufficiently. This budget rebalance stemmed from everything that is happening in our environment in the world, and surely it would not have happened so early that the impact of this particular pandemic did not have such a negative effect on economic activity, and then also on the general situation. In this budget rebalancing, it is evident that the total expenditure has been kept at a level or slightly higher than, for 326 million kuna and they amount to, therefore, 141.5 billion kuna, while revenues are lower, as already said, by 23.2 billion kuna or 121.95 billion kuna. What the hell was that about? Well, everything that's been done and what we've done in 3.5 years, we've achieved precisely to bring the state of finance, state finances in line, to enable certain growth. You see, one small virus actually brought down everything that's 3.5 years old. It worked hard. The aim of surely the Ministry of Finance and the Government is not to provoke what some colleagues advocate some great consumption but to first redistribute to enable all of those projects, which is precisely this way when the cost of maintaining the economy and, and, and businesses, and then actually with debt, is to enable all those projects, which are ongoing not to stop but to move on. So that's when you rely primarily on your own forces, and then if that's not enough, then you can move on. We are witnessing that the government has gone to several stages, so the March measures, so the April measures and it is quite understandable and rational because in this way, all the possible difficulties that can happen during life or here in these two months were assessed and in this way, in cooperation with all ministries, with entrepreneurs, with citizens in the end line, were seen where it is necessary and how it works. And with what has been done so far, what has been done has proved to be absolutely correct, completely quality, timely, and in this way has just stopped those black scenarios as some and what some would have wished, so that we have many hundreds of thousands of unemployed and much more and social and other problems. What is seen from the budget itself is that it was in that part of any subsidy, whether it is given to households or entrepreneurs, it is seen that it has provided maximum funding, and as I said at the outset it was a redistribution of 2.1 billion kuna within the budget itself, so that here it would now be further secured up to 6.7 billion kuna, which is then forecasting a period and by finally 30th to June of this year. What's going on in this period? It is already mentioned normally that GDP will fall, it is something that is inevitable and happening, not only to us but to all countries in Europe and the world, but when you look at the components exactly what I've just said and the structure of GDP, then it is seen that this is exactly the state's consumption that is not falling even though all other parameters are particularly negative except for imports of goods and services. But when you look again at what it contains then in that import of services and goods, a significant component is just imports of energy. We have seen that there have been many proposals in which to improve the situation, they have competed with proposals as much as possible in one way or another, but these precisely these measures and the laws that we have adopted have shown that cold heads should have been pushed away very well and aimedly allowed to be given direct budgetary support, and also to enable both the economy and the public to reach their breath and ultimately to propose in all this. What I personally think is that we will get out of this crisis much sooner and faster than it was the financial crisis in 2008-2009 and when we speak here now and when we speak colleagues about what we are doing, so this is exactly what the conditions are changing at, and I think, although the scenario has been very conservative, but I believe that if we keep a certain level of discipline that can in this way be run now from June to June, then on, start and tourism, and certainly the economy. We need to be very careful here, what epidemiologists warn us about, so we need to stick to the rules of conduct and take good care of it in everyday life, as well as in business life. When we speak within the state budget itself, changes have also occurred in the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it is seen that the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money markets has changed from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion kuna. There has also been a change in art. 3.In current debt repayments, the total annual value of financial guarantees is also changed from 3800 to 4800 billion kuna, and the HBOR guarantee fund has also increased from 60 to 140 million kuna. It is important to say that special attention is also given to the law on enforcement. 6. where new employment is limited, i.e. it must be taken into account to limit only the necessary cases, and this is a time when both the Government and all ministries are taking great care of their capacity and capabilities. I would point out that it was precisely from this period when, in the short term, it was made possible and with the earthquake that it was, so we know that some ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, have no working conditions, how fast and quality the situation was adjusted, as in the shortest possible time, other services allowed and made a billion-and-a-half kuna aid paid to employees of the company over 84,000 companies. So I think that this speed has certainly shown that we are both capable and that we can make big steps whenever we want and when we need it. In particular, I would like to point out that the Commission for Fiscal Policy has reacted in accordance with its powers, and in its previous report or position, it has said precisely that it can deviate from fiscal rules, so in such cases as these were possible and it can be done to deviate from these numerical rules and to allow the state to be in charge above what was planned until then, according to the criteria of how the Fiscal Responsibility Act was determined. Thus, it has been shown that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have really responded correctly, that it has acted according to all the rules of the profession and that, in this way, when some criticise how much the EU has helped Croatia, and that there are still 18 billion kuna in those aids, it has been possible to re-apply these funds with existing means of planning to the very purposes that Croatia needs, and here there is the possibility that the European Social Fund could use the exact funds that were possible for some other projects, with no project going to stop or end. Therefore, this way in which it is managed rationally not only by its means but also by European means to prove that we are responsible and in this way as a country that has reacted to the first in this way, I think that this is evidence and we can serve as an example. And I must also say that it is also through the management of this crisis situation of the virus, or COVIDA-19, that it has been proven to take great care of the health of its citizens and that it has achieved its maximum since other countries have as many as they have died, hence this great pressure as we guard these or those activities, that any activity in Croatia is important both agriculture, tourism or financial services, any activity is important because it employs people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204866	Thank you. The next is the Živni zidom club and let's change Croatia's distinguished representatives Vucelic and Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204867	Dear citizens. The living wall has been warning for years that HDZ and SDP have no strategy for the country's future, except for the borrowing and sale strategy. In 2020, by rebalancing the budget that is under discussion today, this majority in the Assembly has been bought and charged with a new borrowing from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion. 35.7 billion more, 35.7 billion that we will never be able to repay. Our citizens are expected to pay their debts, debts to which high treason policy leads. If they don't pay, they're blocked, they're done, they're taken away from their property, and they're kicked out of their homes, and they're worth even a few thousand kunas. And how will the state pay its debts? The solution to HDZ and SDP is constantly new borrowings, borrowings that neither we nor our children can repay, and since this year the borrowing of our grandchildren begins. It's clear to everyone. It's clear to all of us that year after year, we'll be living more and more poorer. What's written as collateral? Mortgage, woods, water, islands. Instead of our business of entrepreneurs and citizens funding our CNB in our currency, we continue to listen to colonial borrowing policy in foreign currency at huge interest rates. Instead of having and broadcasting our own money and paying our CNB interest, we encourage our economy, we turn from hollow to empty, at the same time becoming more and more in debt and selling out our countries and its resources, our people. How much longer? This could be the moment when we will start our economy, deal with the intrinsics, earrings and artistic organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Tourist Board, of course, and the HRT, to deal with the banking and the upcoming parliamentary elections and the political mafia. But that's not gonna happen. The Law of the Living Wall on Electronic Voting will not even be found at the debate in this session of the Parliament because it is important for this government that 50% of the people do not go to the polls. The law of the Living Wall on the examination of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property is also pushed under the carpet. It's important to keep it as it is, and as it is, it will continue. A new wave of arrests awaits us, a country with a growing population has an ever-increasing public sector. The entanglements will continue. They enable and allow this rebalance of the budget. We are expected to have a new wave of criminals who need to settle down, and they will settle down, which also confirms the appointment of a new HDZ state attorney and its policy of protecting criminals. This week's debate includes the appointments of the same team that controls public procurement operations. The job's going as good as it used to be. We are expected by a new wave of refugees, Croatian refugees who are not fleeing the war, but by crime and devastation left behind by HDZ and SDP parties, as well as their criminals and their allies. The Corona has only accelerated the consequences of catastrophic high treason policy in about a year. The question I'm getting is, can our citizens hold you for another four years? And what will be left of our land? Are we going to be left with only party voters on the state chest and normal people driven off and scattered around the world? Today, young people, tomorrow's future pensioners are waiting for the fate of national pensions and survival with 800,00 kn per month and if they ever get pensions. When will it be enough? When we get on our feet and tell the bandits enough, this is our land? The living wall will not support you in further robbery, poverty and land borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204868	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, in fact I apologize, the division, excuse me, shared the discussion of colleagues Vucelic and colleagues Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204869	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the rebalancing of the state budget. The time is crisis, and in front of the Party we change Croatia or a team of experts who have worked on this I will present our proposals and observations on this rebalancing. First, let me repeat what's been said. The rebalancing forecasts the redistribution of 2 billion and 100 million kunas because about this strategy, if the revenues of the state budget fall, and the expenditures are kept by the same amount, then the only thing that can be done is to make redistributions on the side of the expenditure, so that something can be done. But, you see, the expenditures don't go down by $1.00, and they can be reduced, they can be reduced, and I'm sorry there isn't a minister here. As I came to this assembly here, for four years, four years ago, I was saying that I needed to refinance the overpriced state loans and bonds at the lowest interest rates now, this government started doing it seven or eight months ago, something was sewn up, but also too little and too late. My calculation shows that it's in this 4 g. It could have saved about 15 billion kuna, and it would have been extremely useful now during this crisis. I'm asking the question to this government, why didn't you do the re-financing? Why didn't you save 15 billion kunas that way? Dear citizens who are watching this, yesterday I was in a café, for the first time in two months, you know. I went to see him as a politician and an economist, and I expected there to be a lot of people. No, not a lot of people. We were only a few of us at the table for 20 minutes at a decent distance as prescribed. I'm asking the waiters what's going on? Is it because of fear or because of money? He says both. What happens when these measures stop, so this program helps after 15.6. If people are already getting help from the state, the Minimals, they hesitate, trying to spend? Of course it will be the same. Why? People are already afraid of that. Thus, it is a known situation that people’s behavior in the recession to increase savings or not to spend, spend on food, medicines, and what is necessary. So, we'll see, we'll face much bigger problems after 15.6. And that's why this government decided to call the election right early in the beginning of 7 months, while as long as it can, through its media, control its media, manage fear in people who are particularly threatened. You see, I didn't come here to convince the figures that it was about, I came on behalf of the Party to change Croatia in front of a team of experts because dear citizens, I'm sure while you're watching and monitoring the transfer of the assembly, you're looking and wondering, so who can solve this crisis, who can get us out of this economic fungi, you know? Well, I can't have people who aren't experts, you know, who have no experience, who don't understand what's coming. Where you could've saved up, listen up. You see, the concessionaires' fee for the Macelj-Zagreb highway is 188 million kuna. That's what we'll do. We pay Peter butter every year. Compensation for concessionaries for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway 67 million kuna. Who arranged it like that? Fuel fee for Croatian roads is a billion 960 million kuna. The proposal is to cut by about 100 million kunas. Fuel fee for HZ 474 million kuna, it's a bottomless bag. Fuel fee for Croatian highways, also 474 million kuna, a bottomless bag. What do we suggest, what can be done here? You see, in this sense we need to implement so-called. securitisation of the debts of Croatian highways and Croatian roads in a way, because this is an executive today, this time is an excellent opportunity, we are in a difficult situation, now big plans are made, big moves to make, means big solutions. How could the state get rid of this interest rate and capital sucking from the Croatian highways and Croatian roads? Past, the SDP government she meant to sell it, in a concession to give, etc. You don't have to. We need to securitize. They're constantly, look out, they're 15 years old. They pay off their debts, how much they owe almost nothing to the principal. Well, it's clear that these debts are thus irreparable. We propose that one billion foreign loans be paid off from foreign reserves, and the rest of it is about 3 billion to be securitised through government bonds and sold to investors by citizens' banks and all other investors. But dear citizens, they need to know how to do it, they don't know it, and they don't just know it, they don't want it. Why? Is it appropriate for some to pay so much interest to lenders and investors who bought government bonds, above all pension funds. So as you can see when I was here to solve the problem blocked within three months, the model is very simple, it's similar to this, and so is this. For these solutions, however, we must have much greater support for citizens because the profession is now called to speak. I see here come the election of dear citizens, most MPs shake. Why? So if they don't get a seat here next time in Parliament, they don't know how to do anything else, you understand, so they're shaking. Now it's time for people who are experts, determined, brave enough to mess up these nods, incompetent people and those who practically insinuate us, and I said just now that we've been paying 15 billion kuna over the past four years, we've paid no need to pay interest to banks, pension funds, domestic and foreign, etc. What else do we suggest? I won't talk about what's familiar anymore. What are our party proposals to change Croatia? So, spend your refinancing again, save 4 billion kuna a year. Furthermore, suspend payment in II. Retirement column from workers' salaries, suspend payment. I asked for it two months ago, you disobeyed. Every month, about 500 million kuna is paid into the II funds. to the pension column, stop, freeze and pay and finance the recovery of the economy. Fuel prices charges instead of HAC and Croatian highways I said should be securitised, issued to the government bond to take over, and that we all buy banks, funds, foreigners to buy and thus free Croatian roads and highways so that they can breathe and that they can pay off that debt one day. Otherwise, with a model like this, which I'm going to explain soon, I'm going to record one video, so this is how these two companies are never going to settle their debts. Furthermore, I again urge the government and the CNB to pay out helicopter money to all adult citizens of 10 billion kuna. This will not increase public debt if it is not a debt of the state but directly delivered by the central bank to each adult citizen. After that, citizens spend, thus reducing the fear of consumption, which is the most dangerous phenomenon in recession because when people don't want to spend recession, it deepens, production decreases, unemployment increases, and we sink. Our estimates are that the situation's description of how much GDP in Croatia will fall is that it is too optimistic, there will be a major decline. There are also optimistic figures on the drop in state budget revenue, especially from VAT, excise duties and other revenues. In that sense, there is no need to paint the situation better than it is. In that sense, I call you again and I warn you, don't put us abroad, for the third time I repeat here, I'm going to press charges against anyone in the government who owes us dearly, and it can be financed at 0% of the interest if it comes to kunas from the CNB and what we need foreign reserves. Foreign exchange reserves have Croatia one of the largest in the EU in terms of GDP, however, debt management policy, interest rates on its own citizens, the exhaustion of the economy, the collapse of competition on foreign markets, the unresolved judicial system, the corruption of capillaries that has developed in this society, dear citizens after all this I do not understand how the stone remains on the stone in this country. So I invite you to the elections, and I urge you to consider the future of your children and our children to whom you will give the voice to finally pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204870	Thank you. We're continuing to work on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The next one is in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's counterpart Zekanovic, who shares the debate with counterpart Glasovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204871	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I just asked the minister an extremely simple question, he avoided answering me, so I asked him another time, and now I see he's gone in the House. Now there's you, I don't expect you to answer me, but here's the question. I'll ask you a third time. Did we get any kuna from the EU in this crown crisis? Here, keep your mouth shut. I'll answer for you. So we didn't get a lipo of one of the EU, lipo, and we haven't even realised a single loan yet. And the proof of what I'm saying lies right here in the document that we're discussing here today, which is the budget rebalance for 2020, paragraph 623 of income, foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget, that's where it should be. There we had 18 billion 756 million, and now with this rebalancing we say that 502 million kunas 893 thousand kunas will be less, less. Not only has the EU not given us more money in this extremely difficult period, because we lack the rebalancing, how much, 20, 30 billion kuna, but it has also denied us money, it has reduced its donations to its member in this case Croatia. And this should be repeated and repeated. And you said you were responsible, responsible government, and you said the EU left us hanging. Don't take care of us, they don't care anymore, it doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist. Because when the European solidarity you swore 1,000 times disappeared, it disappeared into the EU. However, I will always point out that European solidarity was not there. That it was one big lie. And why you won't say this, the fact that I just said it is a simple reason. Everything you do, you do exclusively on the order of Brussels and for the purpose of Brussels, not for the purpose of the sovereign Croatian state. I will repeat that yours is a little clearer and that the viewers hear, everything you do, absolutely everything, every step, every move is directed solely by what Brussels wants, and those what the citizens of our country, Croats and Croats want. And the thing is very exact, 500 million kunas less, and we are a tourist country based almost exclusively on tourism. We are, in fact, the tourist region of Europe, and when we are out of tourism, we are gone, we will have the biggest economic downturn across the EU. That's it. We've already got it. And even though we sacrificed all production, in all others, all other activities for the EU, the EU will not help us. So what do we have from this EU? Except for the familiarity and friendship of Andrej Plenkovic. Here comes the minister, glad he's here, and I will repeat the question to the respected Minister Maric. Why haven't we got any lip from Europe so far and how do you explain these 500 million kunas less in the budget exactly in that item where it should have been? And yet to point out, there will be no countries in the EU, and perhaps in a world that will have an economic downturn greater than Croatia. He won't. It's not your fault, Minister Maric. It's not your fault, you've come into a situation that's been found, we've systematically destroyed it, or we haven't improved it in decades, you've been here for the last four years, and you're only partially responsible for taking over this sinking ship. But that is what citizens need to know, that Croatia is a country that has one strategic activity, which is tourism. And when there is no tourism, and that can happen at any time, at any time, there is neither Croatian economy nor projections are only 9% or 8%, as much as GDP is said. You know that unfortunately, it will be much, much, much larger. Much bigger. And what will happen to Croatia in a month or so, will be able to measure it in some economies after II. svt. The war. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. Andrej Plenkovic is not, nor are you Minister Maric, and who will suffer, of course. Croatian citizens, Croats and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204872	Please, one second. Time's stopped. The second part of the debate, colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204873	Dear colleagues, Mr. Maric. I, at one point, seem to have this assembly hall as a confessional, that people confess here, but you can't confess your sins, let's move on. It may be in the church, but these economic sins, mismanagement with the state, we haven't gotten rid of it. We inherited that, a dysfunctional state where every other word of corruption. Why so far have we not formed, like Romania,.../incomprehensible/... the closest to the world's issue and the question of human beings because in that country all personnel from the former state, after being... There they moved to another Romanian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have an anti-corruption directorate that works, people go to jail, but all governments. All governments have acted on a modern monetary policy to this day. Well, look, everything says they're not. That's what I'm going to mention 10 times again, what kind of master this government is, left, right wing of the party. The failed shipyards, 30 billion kuna, which each family with four members will cost the Croatian family 5,000 euros were taken from them when you put it on that tactical level. 100 billion kuna in agriculture. Where are these storage spaces,... etc., and we complain that the drought is coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to how much money we lost with these princes, Drpislavi, and there is no revision of those parts. No revisions. Read what others write about us, you have reports from other states. For example. Austria, which spoke earlier, a report 3 years ago, that the restructuring of the state, the massive public administration, failed and that corruption is still Achilles's fifth state. You've got some kind of here now, how this country, like this one, Restort coalition, I would call it the "pipl fat trast as" coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pipple fat trast as, because they have no idea and they have proven it because they're doing the same thing that does the right wing, totally dysfunctional state, to this day. Corruption is here... Mr. Lovrinović said that, and why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where Sorosha was peeled. The NGOs, the open society, they stole his money and there's just, I'd be the first, the first law there is creative accounting. So far, no major affair has been discovered and what now. The tobacco tax and alcohol will not save the Croatian state. Not on these drinks, this one, Coca-Cola, etc. What, we have an unsustainable public administration, we've been moaning for three decades. Unsustainable public administration, it's like her, a pot, put water, water leaks out with 100 holes. You have a debt of health care, I think, a debt of health is 8.5 billion kuna and is still growing. And you've all been friends and friends, you've been in power. And now the crown is coming, and now you're saving the country. Strange, strange, strange is this thinking. We're talking absolute fiscal discipline. So far, what's happened so far? Some have been acting on local self-government like drunken billionaires in Las Vegas in a casino, here. I mentioned last week, one on, one on, one on down spent down, a woman on, that's what I said, that's a good story, a woman accused him, one on there from May 1st, spent 450 kuna on the team. So who did he host, the Sheik of Dubai, whom, there, I don't know, Saudi Arabia? Nothing to anyone. There are no retroactive laws when it comes to conversion, privatisation, just smoke and smoke curtains, we haven't entered the root of corruption. How much, Mr. Maric, would you ask how grey is, what is the percentage of the grey economy in Croatia? ... is it double from the EU or how much, I don't know, but I have to, no, no, we don't need to, there's corruption in... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you also have a gray economy in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But America has 300 and a few million inhabitants plus, we have residents like the suburbs of Brooklyn. Not 300 and something million. Tourism, one-fifth, mentioned Mr. Zekanovic of our GDP, I think it depends more on tourism. What about those people who rent apartments down there and down houses that have invested heavy money, raised loans, and no income. What happens to them and what happens to that fifth of GDP? Actually, I'd say, we know what's going to be in this, uh, near future, it's until '21. Mr. and what do we know about the coronary virus? We don't really know anything. We don't know how much this debt will be, what GDP will be nominal, real GDP, how much we will be in debt, will be, will not be saved by the European Central Bank, the AMF, etc., but we ourselves and we must soon start with... the whole state system, not the taps in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said that before that this budget is like a hollow hole, water leaks, doesn't exactly hold arguments because we're going to be in charge again. What's going to be the percentage of the debt we don't know, we can only guess, but we're still in charge. Here, there's no long-term strategy, I'd say, I'd compare the budget as long-term, all short-term. When you see in Croatia, a family house, a family house, upstairs live for 3 generations, and under the house put a small store that sells everything, from hemorrhoid cream to auto parts, would immediately earn money. No, that's not how it works. Well, we don't even have a medium-term strategy for economic development. So, who will come to invest here, give me two examples of Greenfield investments in Croatia. They took over the Czech auto-industry, the Slovaks, they were supposed to be in Lica. So who will come to a country where at every level you have bureaucracy as in ancient China and every, every, this branch of that tree, the rotten one is wanted bribe, bribe and hunt, and now look who will come when, if the average investment cycle is 5, 10 years, and you change the laws, you change every year. You, left, right wing of the party. Who will come to you here? No one's coming. That is, just, this, I don't want this to be a nagging, but we need to move things quickly. Specific things either, or we're waiting for the same thing that happened to that failed experiment, that union of Southern Slavs where it was, inflation was me thinking bigger than almost Venezuela. Only two countries had more inflation, it's Zimbabwe and Brazil, it's in the '90s, I don't know how much longer the former "South" we're paying, it's about $9 billion, it's not said. What do you say? But I would just mention, Mr Bernardić when he mentioned, uh, recently one terminology, it called it when some real termology that was abused by Mr Bernardic was not, not this rectal these climbers but rectal climbers were old characters who had already entered deep into the state system from the old country, former members of the party, these are, rectal climbers, but those who are now coming, younger frames that are licking into the left, right-wing wrong parties, they are anal alpinists who are entering that hatch now and they want to be profiled through these two parties, left, right-wing party, these are anal alpinists, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204874	Okay. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. I'll remind you that the debates on behalf of the clubs take 15 minutes, individual debates take five minutes. Next is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please welcome colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is a budget rebalancing which none of us wanted and would all be happy, of course, if we didn't have to do it because it was caused by a crisis that affected the whole world and against which the Croatian Government is fighting in all indicators, quite successfully, which I want it to continue to be even more successful in order to protect people's health first, and secondly, what has been said since the beginning, jobs and economic activity. And for these very reasons, as it has been said, it is working out, out of increased isolation for the protection of human health, to help the economy or employees in order to preserve jobs, for the sake of falling of course and economic activity, we are forced, as the minister himself said in his opening statement, in the first half of the year, in principle to do budget rebalancing. What marked this entire mandate of the government in all the discussions so far on budgets and rebalancing was tax discharge, both citizens and economies. Today we have a situation that for the first time in the state budget, we have returned money to those who paid it into the state budget and who paid it. About 7 billion kunas are said here to be that amount. There's no such thing as great wisdom. The crisis is here, it had to intervene, the budget has to be rebalanced, we need to adapt to the situation in which the state found itself. Of course, for these reasons, I would like to say firstly that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB will support budget rebalances. The minister says the unemployment rate is projected to rise to around 9.5%. I will remind, not so long ago, of a different crisis, much smaller than the current crisis, because this one, this one, is about the health and life of citizens, that is, in the term of the previous government, or the previous one, I am not talking about the one between the government for a few months, when it was 2011. The unemployment rate was 13.7% to 16.3% in 2015. So, these are some indicators that are on the table and we have to compare, especially those that criticise the government's work of course, we have to compare those times, we have to compare the success of the then Government in a crisis situation, I say to a different crisis situation with the adoption of the current government in this current crisis situation. It is obvious that this government has done so much better and more effectively. The expenditure savings are, of course, there, and I am pleased to see that, however, I was concerned about not making too much savings at the expense of investments, that projects such as the 2012 case should not be stopped. when some projects were announced to be stopped, when certain decisions had already been made, when the chariots of various letters had been made that the construction of a fast road from Cugovec to Križevci would be stopped and that the existing what was built would be preserved. I am pleased here today that the Government has the courage to continue with projects, with such projects, among which there are so many here in the Croatian Assembly, but also in the premises of Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovar-Bilogor County mentioned "Podravski Ipslon" and the continuation of its construction. And because of the citizens in the area and because of the economy in the area of which this continuation is of vital importance, it is worth saying here that I am glad, and in some answers today, the minister has indicated this, that this project will continue and continue. I've given myself a little effort, so I've been collecting some data on the use of European water supply and disposal funds. According to the data I received, the period from 2017 to the end of 2019 is 4 times higher than the year 2009. by the end of 2016 When I talk four times bigger then I'm talking about 3.5 billion and I'm talking about 14 and some billion kuna, and that's what I'm happy about in this part of it because I think that without continuing investment, without using European money to hire the Croatian economy, we can hardly hope for a break-out, faster extraction from that part of the crisis that comes after we believe and hope to stop the spread of the coronary virus. I am also pleased that this budget rebalance is not abolished either, that the activities and constructions and the Belarusian agglomerations and the dwarves and the koprivnica and the crusades continue. A billion and 200 million kunas are the only 4 agglomerations of investment and investment in the areas I'm talking about. For all the reasons that I have stated, I have only cited a few of them, I repeat, our club will support this budget rebalance, congratulate the government on the successful fight with this crisis and wish that we will get out of it as soon as possible and start restoring the economy and hope to awaken the optimism of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204876	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is counterpart Emil Daus outside the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go, colleague Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204877	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of HS, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are aware that it is not easy to rebalance the state budget in a situation as it is today with many unknowns and uncertainty. And we will try as always to be above the daily political turmoil and pre-election campaign that has already begun and try to focus on the subject of the budget, but also on everything that is attached to it. I must admit that I personally thought that this corona crisis would wake us all up a little bit more together, that we would realize that it was very little to change everything and that we would finally get priorities, both economically and socially. That after the virus and the earthquake, we realize how small and how few we are and how together we can do something good for this country. But no, some just waited for the situation to calm down a little so they could go back to their already haunted phrases, procedures, no matter how much they hurt society, because it's easier to share people than to create a community. But when we talk about the budget and the management of public money, which is the subject of this point, it's kind of an impression, and not just now, but for decades, that it's always going the easy way because it's easier to sail down the wind. But they don't always blow the wind in the desired right direction, sometimes they have to turn back on it, board the opposite. And that's what's actually been missing for many years, making tough decisions that lead in the right direction. The so-called reforms that are being talked about, but the real ones, the real ones are actually lagging behind. There is no reform of the public administration, the reduction of the costs of the administration itself and its ineffectiveness, which generates a new additional cost, we are far from it. There is no reform of the industry by the outdated or those failed in the modern world industry. We still do not have an environment that will attract sustainable development-based investments, green energy and no agricultural reform. It would only be enough for the last 30 years to be abandoned and healed agricultural land to feed the whole country, and Croatia is importing food. I understand when it comes to tropical fruit, but potatoes, onions, salad, apples, peaches, that's a shame. And if we do not reduce and eliminate unnecessary expenditures in the public sector, nor do we invest a systematic tool in what will energize us and return multiple funds, which will create added value in our society then no rebalancing makes much sense, then they become just form, not content. Because it turns out that whenever something goes bad, the only answer for most Croatian governments is to cover the lack of income by additional borrowing. This is a pattern from the 1990s and does not stop, although occasionally a temporary flash occurs where, on the one hand, it is fairly responsible for managing public finances and should be honest and there should be commendation for the work of the current ministry headed by Minister Maric, but it should also be told the truth, which is that on the other hand, and enough happiness has been what took several years in the wider environment a good economic situation which was not the result of the systemic approach itself, at least not in the most part. But happiness has its own deadline, and as soon as it's scratched again, we're in charge again. And we wouldn't have to if we were to create values in our own backyard, but someone's importing and trading is more important than exports and production. And the more it is said to love Croatia, the less Croatian it is itself. It's actually the greatest defeat of our society. And it's not a subject or not at least the Ministry of Finance itself, but a much wider economy and agriculture and administration and the whole society as a whole. We do not want to be hypocrites, besides the IDS supported measures to help the economy realize that it requires a large amount of funds that are difficult to compensate for new revenues and it is right that Croatia has decided that health and human lives are ahead of profits, but on the other hand we do not play generals after the battle because we have been repeating the same thing for years. Domestic production, especially the agricultural foundation is Croatia's development with a special emphasis on product quality, tourism has too much of a share in GDP, it is not good, it needs to share the risk on several major industries. Let's finally turn to new technologies, when the situation has forced us in a month, it's been done in the digitization of society more than in 10 years, so it can be done. The development is based on sustainability not on extra profits of individuals, and nature is increasingly sending warnings to us, so let's finally listen to it. It is clear that there are not many of us, that we are not large and Croatia cannot compete with quantities, but it can certainly do with quality. It has great natural and human resources for it, and it can be done, not overnight, but it can be done. My colleagues and colleagues, along with all the troubles and challenges, this unfortunate pandemic is a kind of opportunity, an opportunity we talked about several times in front of the IDS club, and we thought it would be recognized and exploited. And it was an ideal time to start implementing real real reforms. And it may sound a little naive, but I'm convinced deep down that they would get even a lot of support from a large number of citizens if they know which direction and which way to go. But according to the good old one, when the elections are not too slow then the expenditure remains at least until the next rebalance, incomes are compensated by additional borrowing, only what is the problem with us in Croatia every so many elections, and borrowings will unfortunately become more expensive on the financial market. And that's the problem with most Croatian budgets, we're afraid that's going to be the same with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204878	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The following registered counterpart Boris Milosevic is in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, please welcome counterpart Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204879	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The rebalancing is coming to us much earlier this year than we used to in our earlier years. Normally and initially said in these discussions that the SDSS Club can assess positive overall fiscal policy results for the year in which we are discussing rebalancing, at least as far as the mandate of this government is concerned, no one can deny that we were doing well. And last year in the debate, on last year's rebalancing, I commented that with rebalancing compared to the original budget for 2019. We foresee an increase in tax revenues due to favourable economic developments. But that was, so just a few months ago, now a few months later we're talking about completely different circumstances, completely different conditions. After the 20th quarter growth we have a situation instead of continuing this trend, instead of growing about 3% as predicted in the 12 months of last year, we will at best have a decline that is foreseen by this rebalancing of 9.4%, but the big question is whether or not it will be. It's not about the intention of this rebalancing, it's not about the ability of this government, we simply can't know with certainty what they're carrying next months, is there going to be a new wave of epidemics, are we going to have to reintroduce the longdown, what the situation in the world will be, will we be able to travel and cross the borders, will there be air transports, what countries will be open that won't, where there will be an epidemic, how many countries that are important to us partners that our economy depends on, and in the end what season will be? There's a lot of questions, and no one has an answer. When we look at it, we are changing the State Budget Act for this year to help JLS, to help HZMO, to help HZZO, to cover income tax, to cover taxes, to cover taxes, to contribute where the taxpayer is free of payment, or payment has been delayed or payment specified in meals. We are changing the law to give the Minister of Finance authority to, with the government's consent, be more than what was found to be the level of borrowing, and all with a view to actually avoiding the occurrence of adverse consequences for the normal functioning of the state in 2020. We also amend the Accounting Act to extend the deadlines for the submission of financial reports and the boss of accompanying financial documents that entrepreneurs must file, submit. So, the whole, but the whole system that we've had for years is now no longer valid under these conditions. Nobody slows it down. We, too, have debated in HS over the past two months according to the Bureau's agreement, not according to the current Rules of Procedure. This rebalancing is real today at this point, perhaps even for this month, but the question is whether it will hold water for two months? If we could do best, we'd only have a financial plan for the next month and so on from month to month. What brings us rebalancing is a reduction in the revenues of the state budget in 2020. which are planned at the level of 122 billion kuna. On the other hand, expenditure remains the same. The change in expenditure is only in their purpose or location, everything is now given in the fight against the crown and the consequences of the epidemic, in the fight to preserve jobs. I think what's planned on the spending side is still too rational because we don't need saving right now, the expenditure should be increased, even at the cost of more debt because we have a lot to finance. Let us not just forget the earthquake in Zagreb where the damage has yet to be estimated. The funds provided for by the rebalance for some 100 million kuna for the emergency implementation of the first phase are certainly not enough. She may be able to pass as an initial asset and it would be great if they were actually spent this year, but it certainly isn't enough. For the past two months and last month, this tall home has voted the most in favour of a whole set of laws that have fiscal effects in the direction of easing the epidemic and its consequences. And it's now embedded in this rebalancing. All these laws have been voted unanimously so I don't think there's any obstacle to this rebalancing going in that direction to be supported in this way. In the debate, I'd like to highlight a few things. The government has come up with lightning and implemented funds to preserve jobs of nearly 7 billion kuna, and this has resulted in more representatives in their debate today. I think it was meant to go quickly, broadly, with liberal criteria. The majority of EU countries went after the subsidisation of workers' salaries at a certain percentage, but the support was exclusively designed to support employers, not as support for job conservation. And here I may see a slip, one mistake that took place at speed, because then it wouldn't have happened if the workers didn't know that their employer had received that support. Then it wouldn't happen if an employer who could pay the difference between the paid support and the contracted salary didn't do it. What are we going to do with that kind of treatment? What about abuses of paid support? This may not be a question for the finance minister at the moment, but it certainly is a matter for the government because the government must find a solution to the problem. Because these measures went to the public and to the Croatian Parliament and were accepted as such to save jobs, but if the worker in certain cases did not get any of it, if he didn't even know about it, then the intention of the Government was, then the Parliament's intention to support it was played out. And that should be determined. At the end of the debate, I would like to point out that a public call is being issued these days for municipal and social infrastructure and for agriculture and for small OPGs, for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in areas which are underdeveloped and which are historically inhabited by members of national minorities. The government's respected programme, met and respected operational programmes for national minorities, also adopted by the government. And so it's supported by this rebalance, the funds in the rebalance are secured, though, slightly less than last year, but insignificantly and minimally, and the calls are gone. The measure is good, affected, accepted, recognised by the users and we expect this year when calls, when the deadlines for application expire, that there will be a lot of applications, a lot of stakeholders, and that these measures will help those who are users of these support, and we can absolutely believe that they are going to counter the consequences of the coronary pandemic. Here, so much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204880	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, a club representing GLAS. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204881	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues Bačić, therefore, we have this exceptional situation that we have colleagues and that Bacic is our only colleague with the vice president. And on your way out. But let's go back to the topic of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the rebalancing of our budget, and maybe this is the opportunity to call some things and the real name, so we have choices around the corner. In the context of these elections, Minister Maric has certainly hurried with this budget rebalance. The budget rebalancing caused something that none of us had in mind at the beginning of the year, and even less when we discussed the budget for this year. Corona, when we discussed the budget for this year, so it's just somewhere, I think on December 12th of last year, the Coronavirus and Wuhan mentioned, that something that was very far away in Europe and something that was in Europe came very quickly to Croatia. And by calling things the right name, Croatia has decided to protect people's health first and foremost. We had one of the strictest measures, and we had a Staff that we trusted and respected all those measures about and distance and everything that was determined. Behind that is said, let's keep our jobs. When it comes to keeping jobs, I could agree with my predecessors, that it was the help of employers, and about keeping jobs we'll see what happens. So what the government and the ruling party have decided, has decided that this summer we will have elections and we have no dilemmas, we have to go into budget rebalancing because we know that about 4 months is of one technical government, 2 months when the Parliament will not work until the elections and then 2 months until everything that needs to be established is established. What we really need to say, the coronaryvirus is something unexpected, for it could not be prepared, we could not prepare ourselves, what time will go on, it will open up the following problems that everyone who is dealing with this at both Europe and the world level, and say in the context of Croatia that it is really and certain shutting down certain jobs, to expect, is also another wave, I have now read somewhere that about the largest wave will be in January 2021. But it's fear, it's fear of the unknown. We're fighting the coronary virus like we're in the 19th century, so without, to reduce our contacts to the least possible measure. What, when it comes to this rebalancing, which is to say, is that in the fall in some new composition of this Parliament and in some new story, we will be welcomed by real rebalancing with real numbers and with real condition and with all the consequences this coronary virus will cause, but as the earthquake in Zagreb has shown the extent of the damage that Mr. Mayor has done to the city of Zagreb for many years, so this coronaryvirus also points to some other things that we have to take care of. So we have to take care of some of the things we've been fooling ourselves about so far. Unemployment has been reduced by people going to emigration, our budget gaps have actually filled our country's apartmentisation and tourism beyond every reasonable measure. Slowly but surely we've turned into a land of cafes and apartments for rent. I don't mind all of it together, but these are not activities that can be the basis of a healthy developed economy. The decline in industrial production... months before the crown, importing food, we have raw agricultural land, we have a shortage of any advanced industry that brings good jobs for high added value, we're a country for educated and there's no place of business, no need. These are the real causes of our problems. This coronary virus has actually shown the real causes of our problems and therefore it is no wonder that when everyone talks about Croatia they say that economic development will be more difficult than in some other countries, it will last longer than in many other countries. We should think about that day later. We should try to think about what kind of country we are and what kind of Croatia we want to be in 2030 or 2050, which is the economy that we are going to develop. We can all agree here whether we sit on the left, right or middle with two things, that we should try to develop agriculture to be as self-sufficient as possible. Self-sufficient in terms of food, we will never be fully, it must be clear to us, but to be as clear as possible and to try as possible to rely on tourism as possible because when the first year does not occur when there is no tourism, all the problems we can open up. So the things we can all agree on are the things we should agree on. So let's remember how quickly we agreed on some things that were connected to the crown laws, we went to make a quick deal because we were afraid because we had pictures of Italy where people in black bags put in trucks, these are pictures that were in front of us in that fear we said okay, let's go with some measures. As good or as bad as they are, we'll see. We're pointing and we're going to point at two things. The first thing we pointed out, which is support was basic to those who, because of the state's decision, couldn't work. That support has turned into someone else's. Don't let it happen to us that the people who took the support for the jobs will pay off the profits, only then will everyone laugh directly at us. The second thing we pointed to, and I'm using this opportunity once again, when it was a start for credits then those who took it should have had the opportunity, that when they started paying off the loan to start where they left off. I've had a chance to hear one of the people in the banking sector who said, well, no, we don't charge people interest, we're going to charge at the moment when they're going to start realising their loan again, I mean what we're talking about. So we didn't do anything. And then we have a situation which is a special situation in the City of Zagreb. At the most severe moment when the crown was the City of Zagreb was struck by an earthquake. The earthquake was 5.5 times the same thing when you take the same 1880 earthquake was 6.5. Within three days of that earthquake in 1880, the headship of the City of Zagreb met, decisions were made, the City of Zagreb was such a small town on the edge of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the result of the earthquake was a strong economic activity that was launched by the City of Zagreb, which the City of Zagreb quickly produced a respectable work of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. The best builders were building the city as we know it today, I must remind you that, let's say August Sheno at that time was a city senator and he got pneumonia helping and injured in the earthquake, but also activating himself in terms of the economy and as a consequence of pneumonia and embolism August Shenoa died as a result of his earthquake-related activity. Since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb 22nd so in 10 days it will be two months, today it is about 50 days since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and now when we compare this budget rebalance in the budget rebalancing we have an item of 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and we have an item of 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency Fund. That's 141 million kuna at a government meeting last week, said it was meant for exactly what. It's designed for recovery, it's designed for dental walls that have collapsed both for condensation water heaters and chimney recovery. All of a sudden, the theme of the earthquake in Zagreb was the need to obtain condensation boilers and resuscitation of chimneys. All this stuff that you're coming to this Parliament so you can't come or all of this you see in the City of Zagreb and all of these activities that are and that you go down one street so you can't go through, the citizens are doing it on their own. Citizens do not have the right information about what the state will do together with the City of Zagreb. Rehabilitation or new reconstruction of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake simply must be a state project. The resolution minister came out to the public about two, three weeks ago and said that the recovery would take years, as he will, said the estimated value is about 42 to 43 billion kuna, and we in this budget have 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, which speaks of the intention of accessing the problem. If the problem was to be treated, the governing body could already be determined at the state level, the law could have been held in public debate, he, I went to check before I dropped here that perhaps there was no public debate in the meantime, so there is no law in the public debate. It's as if Zagreb is forgotten by all. It was as if Zagreb had deliberately forgotten from everyone. Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the sin of inaction is a serious sin. It's a sin that's been going on for 50 days now. So what you're seeing is that the citizens are on their own. But that madness won't end there. This madness will end, the question is how, but at this point we know that there was one Commission of Stats who was reviewing the facilities, so another commission will be set up that will once again in front of the city to check what the facilities look like, what happened here, and the law on reconstruction and the third commission is foreseen. So 3 different commissions will review the damage that was done on the facilities. In doing so, I think first and foremost of the buildings they use, therefore, whether they are family houses or multi-state houses used by our citizens. I assume the state of its building has been examined. I guess, for example, the Ministry of Finance has been reviewed and it's been established around what's the damage, which is the deadlines of the recovery, how to go into rehab, both from the aspect and the statics, from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage, which is some kind of a small cost, which means financially, I guess it's been examined. I think even in that rebalancing process that's gonna happen in the fall, we're gonna have to take this seriously. Indeed, the fact that the city of Zagreb and we who live here and who we are, and we live in those parts of the city where, or in buildings where it felt stronger, it's that now that someone is a little louder or a little stronger, you're shaking because you think it's an earthquake, it's one thing. But this is one of the opportunities to be taken. I asked the minister in the replica about the Green Plan because I am absolutely, and we in GLAS are sure that the Green Plan is one of the future, so Croatia has its Green Plan, that it is one of the ways in the future of Croatia. I know that decisions, especially when 27 countries are making themselves difficult, but we should take this earthquake trouble as our chance. Construction as a branch feels the first recession, but the first feels the exit from recession. We had problems, that we didn't have enough labour, that our labour force had to be activated and in construction was somewhere else. All this Coronavirus talk and all this story about the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, we are absolutely sure that all these disasters that have happened to us, we need to turn it into a new value and turn it into something that we can really use and start with a serious construction swing in the city of Zagreb. So we really see this rebalancing as a pre-election document that is needed to hold elections, and the real rebalancing will come in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204882	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204883	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Excuse me. We can call this budget a short breath budget and a short-sighted budget. Why is that? The budget is short of breath because the ruling parties have repeatedly declared that electoral legitimacy is needed to make key and serious decisions. In other words, this rebalance only maintains public finances for a few months. That fact was acknowledged by the minister himself in the opening speech when he claimed that the main objective of the adoption of this rebalancing was to maintain expenditure on the originally planned amount. It will be provided in less part through redistribution within the ministries, but in order to settle the 27 billion kuna deficit, it is clear that it will need to be in debt and increase the total public debt. We can say that this rebalancing marks a financial message that we can interpret for pre-election purposes because it does not answer key questions concerning the existence of many Croatian citizens, and most of all the poorest. It is not at all comforting when the minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia declares that the payment of pensions will not come into question. It's clear in itself because if that happens, then it's quite certain that the whole economy is at stake, the only thing we could expect is bankruptcy. Especially since pension funds will also help state finances with 16.5 billion kuna. There is also an announced EU aid of 9 billion kuna. By adding these two amounts, we can argue that we are halfway through solving our problems. Looking at things this way, it's all expensive and it doesn't look tragic, but there's always some kind of but, and here's exactly that "but" key. As I have pointed out, this rebalancing is also shortsighted. He doesn't have a serious view of the future. He didn't define the direction we wanted to go. To us, the condition of the old normal, to use the words of the ruling, is to be seen as something that we have to pursue again, and that's just to be fatal. Not only are we shortsighted, but our glasses have slipped deep into our noses. The Croatian economy has deep and structural problems. That's what the minister said. When exports grow, industrial production grows significantly both imports and vice versa. It is therefore important to highlight 3 things that are important to take into account structural problems and start implementing the necessary reforms. First, it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship in a way that stimulates all who have good ideas and development plans, while at the same time controlling incentives. Public procurement as a symbol of corruption should be extremely controlled. That support control is important we see on the last payments of support for the preservation of jobs. According to field information, the controls are missing. The money was paid, and the contracts weren't signed. Support was also used by businesses above the fourth-instance ownership of the Republic of Croatia, although these rules are not allowed. We have destroyed many strategic branches and businesses that employ a large number of workers and create an export product. Secondly, entrepreneurs are exposed to a high tax burden and a large number of parafiscal charges, while on the other hand, public administration reform and local self-government are delayed or not implemented. Public administration must be cheap, efficient and fast, and service to citizens and entrepreneurs. This crisis has shown that system information can only be accelerated if there is a will. Furthermore, instead of building a functional JLS system with clearly defined tasks and responsibilities for municipalities and cities in accordance with their fiscal capacities, the status quo is offered because this corresponds to the currently partial party interests and does not want to move from a dead end. Let's just look at our inefficientness in withdrawing funds from EU funds. We have 428 municipalities and 127 towns + 20 counties + City of Zagreb. We just have two options. Either apply all of them to joint work towards the development of the Republic of Croatia or move towards a serious reconstruction. Third, health, education, pension and other large systems require serious interventions to become functional. Infunctionality causes inefficiencies and preconditions for pointless spending of public money and even suffering in individual's own pockets. At the time of this crisis, the health system has stopped in a large part of the diagnostics, a review of primary health care and a series of non-emergency operating procedures. The rebalancing said that the costs of the health system have increased and that health care workers are not adequately paid. Apparently, the cost went up due to the supply of masks. That's weird. Personally, I think the masks will fall and soon after the election, when HDZ leaves power. Our education system in these difficult times thanks to valuable teachers and teachers, well that I don't end up shutting down, and I'm going to mention the ministry's efforts, has managed to maintain such a distance teaching. And what does the government do? Now he takes away what they were promised after the exhausting strike. Although teachers and students want to return to school, they are prevented by inaccuracies and inexhaustible instructions. So, for example. The instructions specify classrooms with terraces and separate toilets, and this could be written by someone who has never been to Croatian schools. So what happens now? Like in the wild west. The kids are taking over part by piece of the school's territory. It's not a system, it's a verse. And finally mention the pension system. It should be noted that the ruling rejected a reasonable increase in the price for supplementary health insurance and do not want to discuss resolving the issue of family pensions. We'll deal with it right after the election. To conclude, the rulings only have in mind the choices they want to hold as soon as possible on the wave of success of the national headquarters in suppressing the epidemic. As a result, the headquarters lost significantly on its expertise and got a lot of foreigning. And since the elections are closer, of course, that Croatian citizens are not going to be told what is specifically planned to be done, this short-term rebalancing for election purposes has been prepared. We won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204884	Thank you, too. A little intervention, so we're moving on. Next is counterpart Rezimir Varda, Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204885	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have tried to analyze these several hundred pages normally, but I am not an expert as our fellow MPs, former finance ministers, to enter all items, and neither is it actually my duty. However, what I have succeeded through that analysis is to understand it next. As regards the draft amending and supplementing the budget, the State budget for 2020 Looking at the plan, the income plan and the expenditure plan through the financing account, it is clear to me that we need to formally resolve the situation that occurred after we made decisions in this assembly regarding this crown crisis. So, formally these 25, or I don't know how many billions of kunas we have to and legally regulate in relation to the State Budget Act. I am pleased that the end line did not touch the expenditure because this means that we continue to invest and all that was actually planned in the state budget for 2020. But it's clear to me that we have to go into lending, borrowing loans to cover everything we've planned and everything that's come from the crown of the virus. However, what I actually expected in the 2021 and 2022 projections, which I did not find except that part relating to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in 2020. Of some 141 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Environmental Protection Fund, to say the least, and these are chimneys, these boilers, gnomes, etc. Of course I expected, given the situation that the 50th day has passed since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, that there will be some talk about, in projections for 2021 and 2022. Because on the basis of the fact that I didn't find anything, I could conclude the citizens of the City of Zagreb that as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, I'm not going to say, in this case, about the government as a whole, as if there was no earthquake. Why is that, I don't know, but I think it was necessary to give at least a detailed written explanation for the 2021 and 2022 projections. If we could do something in the projections for those years, I'm not sure I'm a respected minister because there's no law. The Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb after an earthquake that should allow not only the city of Zagreb but also rural areas and other districts affected by the earthquake, the efficient and quality restoration of family houses in rural areas and historical urban areas of the Lower City, the Upper City and the City and the Kaptola. Why is there no law? I had little information with the representatives of the city of Zagreb in this committee at the ministry or at the Government on the text of the law, yesterday there was a meeting, the representatives of the city of Zagreb were not even invited. Apparently, according to some information again, such a bill proposal, unknown, goes into e-consultation and reportedly very short, 3 to 5 days later, will come to the Parliament. According to my information, it's a bill that has structural problems that won't even be able to fix the amendments. Why? Well, because I don't think there's any renewal if it's run by politics and if it's run specifically by the Department of Construction. We would have to establish the correct, secure sources of funding for reconstruction that will last 10, 15, maybe 20 years. Which can be restored, sources of funding, we need to make a decision when we make the law. If I don't know, I'm saying it by heart, if that's a certain percentage of the price of fuel, water, I don't know what it is, but these sources need to be safe. Secondly, if I said politics can't lead to reconstruction, then we have an example of Dubrovnik. But we have an example of Gunja. Then it is necessary to establish an institution that will run this reconstruction with safe sources of funding and with an interdisciplinary group of people from architects, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Artists, Ministry of Culture, etc., who will be leading the continuing reconstruction of the Croatian capital, I repeat with safe sources of funding. If that is not the case, if such a law that does not provide for it comes to the Assembly for discussion, this club will think a lot about whether we will also support this rebalancing budget in relation to the projections and whether we will support such a Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204886	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today is the rebalancing that should answer the question of how to help the economy at the entrance so far is the biggest crisis from which we will recover very long and slowly. The scope of the crisis will only eventually be seen when we see what happens to the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. I expect that in June there will be the first big wave of redundancies in the economy and in autumn, probably that number of 400,000 unemployed will be exceeded and we will reach a large number of people will be unemployed so we will be larger than that figure that was there around 2000. We know that the 2008 and 2009 crisis was a major crisis but it's like a little kindergarten compared to what's coming to us. Reported earthquakes in financial markets will cause tsunamis in economies and small ones such as the Croatian economy, will stick to the wall on their tails. Especially countries such as Croatia that are consumed by corruption. There are the biggest victims to be ordinary, honest citizens and citizens who live very modestly, and that is the vast majority. Tourism will not recover to these levels at which it has been and it will definitely undermine what the government is very modestly suggesting and their quasi-sacrifice forecasts have only one purpose and this is a promotion before the elections and are pure regret and deception of citizens and citizens. This government doesn't think at all what the consequences of their policies will be. If, by any chance, this first wave of pandemic corona pandemic coincides with the second wave, which is certain, it will lead to even greater problems in the economy, it will be worse than the Titanic scenario. It was once your coalition partner who was then in opposition, now talking about it, telling colleagues from HDZ. The current rebalance increases the public debt from 73% to 86.7% of GDP, and from this rebalancing it is quite evident that the government is not ready for this first scenario of the pandemic corona, let alone for the second. But it doesn't matter because the consequences of these policies will pay for citizens by falling standards. If this government were still considering improving all Croatian citizens and citizens then, in this budget rebalancing, they would see certain indications of how to react to the crisis that will affect us. It will affect both the left and right sides of this assembly, will affect all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. From this rebalancing, we clearly don't see it. Now is the chance to make changes in this rebalancing process that we should have made in previous years, but obviously it wasn't for that, there was no courage. This government doesn't mean thousands of private sector workers from production who are going to lose their jobs, obviously they're not the future of this country. The government primarily thinks of thousands of HDZ arrests that are in the pockets of Croatian citizens and citizens. They've proven that in the last 5 years. when they were in power, the authorities in which Karamarko and Plenkovic ruled. The government wants to withdraw the real, if this government wanted to make the right moves to save the Croatian economy, let's say it would abolish membership, compulsory membership in the HGK and the HGK turn into a real external trade, export chamber such as all those countries that want to increase exports and presence in international markets. Why doesn't the government dare do that? For the reason that the HGK is networked with HDZ's earrings. This government is on its way with the help of citizens who have lost their jobs by throwing money out of helicopters, and now it's a bit of a head breaker, we said it's not right, that it's not good, that these money was supposed to go to citizens, so those who lost their jobs because their companies or their trades were closed. At the time, it was claimed that everything was under control, as Minister Aladrovic said today, it is not natural for a company that pays dividends to receive support from the state. Well, that's what's in the taste of all the support they need to get those who need it. The one who pays the dividend... Support is not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only that, we said that we should be careful who is paid because this is the state support that falls under EU law and there is no jurisdiction of the state inspectorate, there is no jurisdiction of the tax administration, there is a minister, there is a power of the HZZ that has no capacity at all to control all those who are given support. And according to some data, they were not denied today by Minister Aladrovic, 7 out of 10 support found irregularities. I note that 6.5 billion kunas will be given to entrepreneurs to preserve jobs. A huge sum, if 7 out of 10 were given incorrectly, then we can count on what would happen because Minister Aladrovic announced that those who received illegal support would return it. And how will they repay, who will return, who will establish it? I expect that we will have great problems with the EU and as far as I know, the ARPA is already wild on HZZ because it is obvious that the support has been paid by hand and hat without any control. I asked the minister today, if we gave money to large companies, tens of millions of kunas, was the government ready to enter the ownership structure of these companies? The minister didn't answer, but it's something that makes sense. If we give money to preserve jobs, these big companies will continue to work, why wouldn't the state have part of the ownership structure? The company when it recovers, the part that the state has in, so the company's owns the stock market, is sold and the money returns to the budget. If a great German, who has a much stronger, stronger economy than we do, enters the ownership structure of the Lufthansa, why wouldn't the Croatian state enter the ownership structures of the companies it gives money to? But obviously there's no such thing as will. We don't know why, for what reasons, maybe someday we'll find out why the government doesn't want to enter that process. It would be very good, I hope Minister Maric does, too, to announce to whom the support was paid, and who paid the dividend. This has the opportunity to do so, but it is obvious that Minister Aladrovic and the people in charge of the payment of support have not done their job well if this should not have happened to them. One more thing that could have been resolved by now, and it is moving forward with the changes that are necessary for the matter of privileged pensions. Citizens are very sensitive to privileged pensions, especially the issue of defence pensions, and I am absolutely sure that defenders would have nothing to do with solidarity with citizens in that part and to equalise their rights with other citizens. It is now an opportunity to correct that injustice. However, I am not sure that Minister Medved, who is the parent and sponsor of various associations that celebrate "For Home Ready" and who want the situation to remain this way, will want those large pensions to be equal with pensions that are receiving citizens. Here I call on Minister Medved to be honorable and to correct the injustice against Croatian citizens, as well as the honorable defenders who want to stop Stigmatisation as those who have fought for their privileges, not for the freedom of the country. Now it's an extraordinary opportunity to do it, but I'm sure HDZ won't do it because it's the electoral body and it's the people who choose HDZ. As far as the health system is concerned, the health system has suffered a great sacrifice at the moment as regards the crown epidemic itself and these 100 million kuna rebalances that are currently in the system, certainly not enough to correct all the problems we have in health care. With this, Minister Maric himself said today that last year we ended up with 8 billion kunas of debt in the health system, during the crown of the crisis, these debts were even more and it is clear that there are not enough and there will not be enough funding in the HZZ, because there is a reduction in contributions, a reduction in payments, a payment of contributions, therefore, and there are big, big cuts waiting for us, and in the rebalancing of the budget there is nothing and there is nothing, we see nothing. That 100 million kuna is not something that will help the system. However, what the Government could do, which is, to touch certain privileges, and I see there the part that is related to the Vatican Treaties because I think, as far as the Vatican Treaties are concerned, it's absolutely certain that they can't change without the other side agreeing to it, but on the other hand, the budget pays off the large funds of the church. And I am quite sure that the government has started talking to church dignitaries that this part of the budget is not being paid or reduced at the moment is the situation as it is, it would probably also get a positive answer from the church because the church should also be solidarity with our citizens who have lost their jobs and who will lose their jobs. I note that the first, first big wave is expected in six months, and in the fall we will break the number of 400,000, 400,000 unemployed. How much of that number at this point no one will know. Tourism will probably be something, but not as it used to be, and this is quite certain budget rebalancing first in a row, it should have been before, at the beginning of the crown crisis, however, obviously that HDZ is in a hurry to vote and wished to have, in those two months that are now ahead of us, funds to pay the salaries and therefore he is also the one who is very strange. In all other countries, if you have a decrease in income, you also have a reduction in expenditure. In this you have a decrease in income, and expenses remain the same. We'll be in charge. Yeah, now we can get in charge because the situation is favourable, but it's a question of what we're going to do, what happens in the fall, whether we're going to be in charge of what interest. But at this point, the HDZ is only important to bring budget rebalancing and to go to elections, it will have little problems as I see with my coalition partners from Milan Bandic's party because if the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is not passed, I think the elections will have problems in the City of Zagreb, so I expect that we will have this law here very quickly, because it is something that we owe the citizens of Zagreb. This rebalancing that goes towards purchasing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this is not a crisis-responsive rebalance, nor is this a rebalancing that will lead to us going through this crisis as easily as possible. It's happening again in 2008 and 2009. when HDZ was also in power, when we were hit by a major crisis that would be a kindergarten according to what awaits us now. HDZ didn't manage it then, it doesn't work out now, because obviously it's easier for them to rule when there's money than when the crisis comes. Well, let's just remember, then, the senader said the state was in a banana. I think that at this point we are even more in a banana than we were then and this rebalancing will be voted on, but it is not a solution for what citizens need, and that is to go through a crisis with as few victims as possible, and the biggest victims will be submitted by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who will lose their jobs, so we expect there to be over 400,000 unemployed in the winter. This rebalancing doesn't give an answer to how to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204888	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is a debate between colleagues Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204889	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the rebalancing that everyone said, otherwise you wouldn't be if we weren't in this situation. In fact, we are giving a more outline of what has hit us all and we realize that it is necessary absolutely to take measures not only of those taken but still to take action and put the economy first with the safety of our citizens. These are the two basic things that we all here and, in general, at all levels of politics and local level should be dealt with. Security and the economy and connect those two, which apparently was incompatible, were we stopping the economy for safety reasons. I'm not going to enter into this issue of elections at all, I've said something in my free speech that someone here says in front of the government that because of this situation we're going towards a decision to extend this term to another year of today, I don't think anyone would come out alive and it would be a scandal. On the other hand, if someone in front of the government says that we're going to make a choice if they're up for it, then it's not good, because right now it doesn't fit the opposition, so maybe a little bit later when it's more appropriate or when security conditions come in, that's what I think everybody's the same thing, it has to be the same thing to everyone. And we won't support any election, even if it's just so declarative, if we disband it doesn't mean there has to be an automatic election because if there's no conditions for the election, there won't be. I don't know who dares endanger the citizens. So, that's quite hypothetical, but what I do know is that citizens don't have time to wait and decisions have to be made and that the government has to make it that has full legitimacy. Because again on the other hand, we can't get that everything is normal, that we owe Croatia, that we make decisions, that we negotiate without legitimacy. In recent months, the government can't afford sheep and money. Now that I've summed it up, I actually see that it would be a good thing if it were an election, but when it suits the opposition. Well, maybe not right away, until this is stabilized a little bit, but at nine months, that'll still give it a better chance. That's not how it works. I don't remember until now, but I don't remember in this 30-year-old almost history when we went to election by law enforcement. Maybe someone here can correct me here from the elderly, and I don't think it's ever happened here that we've been going to elections by running out of mandate on its own that he hasn't disintegrated what he's about to say on the 16th of this year. So far, most of them have been disbanding the parliament and thus directed the decision towards the elections were they in 2000, 2003, in spite of the changes in the system in 2000, and we know why they were not the elections, 2003, 2007, 2015, and then again 2016, etc. And that's how it's been. And now was it more or later or later that it was speculating about it. The security of the economy, the point, and we owe it to the citizens. This rebalancing, what I said in the replica, I'm glad on the expenditure side, I said it two months ago that we should not succumb to one part of the consummation of consumption, at least a state that makes up 20% of GDP, but we should actually increase it, systematically, meaningfully. I don't mean spending on employees, but they're reducing the amount if I'm not wrong about about 300 million, no pardon 391 million 391.7 million less for employees, so it's not something spectacular, we're just going to go through percentages by every ministry, but it's exactly that investment maintenance, the renewal and all those investments where there's added value, and we're starting the economy that classic mini deal whatever they call it, I don't think we can stop that's 20% of GDP. The other 20% is consumption. We're saying that we expect a drop of something below 10% in this year's GDP, what's the main reason for that is consumption, so we say that one of the parameters where we can observe the same by consumption is VAT, most importantly, it decreases by 22%, VAT revenues by 12.1 billion kuna. Income from profit tax by 30% 2.8, income from special taxes and excise duties by 16% or 2.7, and we have now corrected and increased. By the way, they've even increased revenues in this lock down from excise duties to cigarettes but not because I think they're more consummated than because they're less carried across borders. And the revenue from contributions has also been reduced by 15% and 3.8 billion kuna, respectively. So it's obviously going down. That's how we react. The basic reaction was to find funds by borrowing, so in projections, we've increased practically to double what planned borrowings are if I'm not wrong about which ones it's supposed to be, I think somewhere from 30 to 60 billion planned borrowing incomes. I'm talking about borrowings from 26.8 to 63 more than double. Why? Now here they say we're in debt, etc., so there's a lot of suggestions that we've proposed to give to everyone, throw money out of what kind of wonders, planes, balloons, helicopters I don't know what's not heard here, give everybody a hand and a hat because it's nice to hear, people will be found somewhere, recognized and someone will say see this care about me, absolutely clear. I think what he's saying from the field is that this non-payment measure and the non-refundable 3,250 per 4,000 kuna has gotten that people have stayed to work and it's got its effects and that's why we've singled out practically 4.5 billion kuna is scheduled, according to this budget a total of 5 billion. I asked what about the EUR, because I am neither a Eurofil as regards currency nor a Kunofil, I am a citizen if we talk like that, so what is in the citizens' interest is actually the primary goal of all of us should be, without some nationalist neglect that I must say so and pretending who prefers Croatia and beats a stronger heart. And it's good to hear that we've met all the conditions, and the Master's criterion is that.../incomprehensible/... looking at the aggregate level can be discussed, so it stays the way it is. What also concerned me and what I'm commenting on is the export of services, thinking the most about tourism decline of 70% is assumed, that that's what we said 20% of GDP is tourism and we're very dependent on this tourism, not through direct income from taxis, etc., residence fees but also the indirect through increased consumption which then comes with us where we use and sell our products of course not to the extent that we want foreign tourists. Now that and the hidden source, the export is not, is not, will not be possible to realize. So that's where a really challenging season awaits us. But according to these projections, recovery is expected if I can read well 9.4% of GDP growth is expected already in the 4th quarter, it is not listed, but by the logic of things it can predict from these papers. So, what was also a speech, I'm just going to relate to employment, I have to say that I'm not quite clear about it, says new employment and the admission of officials and tenants to indefinite and specific times is prohibited. If they are provided with funds for staff expenditure from general income and income, therefore not if they are from projects or from HZZO funds, it is now a wider story and says the exception that a minister can be granted. We have already been banned from employment since 2010, according to the project model, yes, 2 for 1, yes, otherwise not. But somehow I don't feel like we have fewer employees compared to 2010, but I'm going to ask the Ministry of Administration, hopefully give me an answer on the movement of the number of employees in the state administration. And it says about the salaries for employees, something that is important again for the next government to enter the trade unions negotiations with the unions, so it says a reduction of expenditure for employees at the government 5.2%, the Ministry of Finance 5.8%, the Ministry of Defence 1.7, the Ministry of the Interior 1.3, that's not clear to me, Ministry of Croatian Defence 0.6, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts 5.2, Ministry of State Property 6.9, Ministry of Culture 5.4, Ministry of Agriculture 3.5, Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds 3.4, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 5.3, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning 8.1, Ministry of Environment and Energy 3,9, Ministry of Education 0.3 reduction, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Tourism 20.5, Ministry of Tourism 20.3, administration of 0.3, Demography, Justice 1.9 and the Ministry of Health in its divisions provides an increase of 2.7%, which is logical in all terms. So obviously, here some planning of the increase we agreed on, signed and originally not secured in the budget, are not now and that it will be something that awaits us because we had negotiations and those strikes of the union after the budget and we are not in the meantime if memory does not cheat or have rebalancing. So these increases are obviously gone and I say more or less everyone except for some exceptions that are not clear to me, too, recorded the decline in staff expenditure, whether it's due to the lack of overtime or not, but mostly it's all percentages. As for the Law on Reconstruction, I would like him to be here in this rebalancing although his funding is provided for by the Solidarity Fund and other European funds, therefore not only from my own revenue or budget, I am glad that it is not only waiting for laws but also for other fronts to immediately bring fire-fighting measures and here above all I am thinking about these almost 100 million kunas secured for the replacement and repair of chimneys, or 41 million from the position of the fund for the purchase of water heaters or condensation boilers, because it is practically necessary to ensure people that if we do not already have colder time but that they have at least sanitary water and some minimum. It's also going to propose parallel financing for home design with those yellow and red tags, that it's also coming out, that it's already going to do something, but the general law on reconstruction, the roof law that needs to be decided by dozens and dozens, over 40 billion damages, is not in this rebalancing and cannot be done until there's no law, it's absolutely clear, when we adopt it, then we can hope to secure the funds, so I expect to put that procedure, as far as I know the law, the bill is almost last week, he's committed to the prime minister and we wait for him to enter, go through the government procedure and be put into public debate and be put on the government as soon as possible, because we recognize that it shouldn't be passed overnight, but that it should be brought to, absolutely, and whether it's left to any other government or not, I think that my position is not to bring it to be better, but to the better, not to the best, but to the night. So, as far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, we have mentioned that, in general, although I am glad that this projection of the reduction of 9.4 GDP is more negative than what the European Commission has given us with more than 7%, but I think it is important that we have left the expenditure that we are focusing precisely on that consumption and generation and consumption, and therefore economic activity, and that this is a good direction that we have not been reducing despite the decline in revenue over 26 billion, we have remained at the same level of expenditure, we have only redistributed and we have told what is our priority, and there is also a minister who has the support of our own, that this is a way to keep going, to see that this spilling to these extra budget users, so that they will go to this accelerated investment cycle, everything that I can immediately start and what was planned this year and the next year to start this step, and that way, and that we are going to get back to the crisis that way we are now, where we are going to a lot of financial crisis. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204890	Thank you, too. This concludes the debates on behalf of clubs, we continue with an individual debate, only technical notice to all MPs and MPs, individual debate takes 5 minutes. Comrade Babic, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last November, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget for 2020 in accordance with then defined macroeconomic indicators on GDP growth in Croatia with projected revenue and expenditure almost on a balanced budget. Meanwhile, in the world, both Europe and Croatia have significantly changed the circumstances conditioned by the global pandemic of the virus and the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, and this budget has been a practical result, i.e. a better said result of these events that have significantly conditioned a reduction in economic activity, which resulted in a resulting clear reduction in the revenues of the state budget and expenditures which could not have been foreseen at the time when we were making the budget here in HS. This significant decrease in revenue of around 25 billion kuna is clearly defined in this rebalancing. But what needs to be singled out is the fact that unforeseeable expenditures that are paid monthly primarily for, as support for job conservation, employers' liquidity and for maintaining business activities in the Republic of Croatia and that this is a significant amount as it says in the explanation of around 7 billion kuna, but in spite of that fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance have, within their own redistributions, maintained that level of expenditure of the state budget, so that the deficit of the state budget would amount to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. I am that this fact of reducing business activities defines this macroeconomic framework in the Republic of Croatia, which this year, as we heard from the government and the ministry, will be 9.4% of GDP. But what it says about the exact estimates this government has shown over the past 3.5 years. that these estimates, always at the end of the year, and at the end of the year, the basis of the data of the State Statistics Institute, proved to be correct, even moreover, the government entered this rebalancing with real mathematical economic indicators, which is more so when we see that the European Commission is planning a lower GDP decline of around 0.3% of GDP and, on the other hand, GDP growth in the coming year, larger than the one the government, the government predicted for the next year, which is 6.5%. So far, during the club debate, I have heard numerous objections from the opposition and how they would act in this situation. I have to say that the government, and while not focusing too much on the work of the CZ Staff, is at this point not in the focus of my exposure above all, I am here focusing on the government's response to the many measures, the economic measures that we have taken in two packages, both in that March and in that April package, and in this May package where, where we are planning and already defined around EUR 100 million of reduction, and tax or parafiscal burdens on the one hand, and on the other hand, in negotiations with trade unions, retain this level of budget that is sustainable and which is good and acceptable. And the government of these measures, these two, with this, two packages of measures, I intend, and I am convinced that they will succeed, manage to preserve the economy when coming out of this epidemic that is more painless, which is easier to continue with, the businessmen continue with their business activities. So I have to say that I'm surprised that in a certain way, imputing the government that in forwarding the support for the preservation of jobs, it should have entered into the ownership of certain employers of economic operators because as a result, it might have been that total number, about 600,000 or something less, I wouldn't be counting now, I wouldn't be guessing, but I believe that a number of employers would find out that they're going to be owned for that part. If they were then, I didn't even notice that we had five minutes, so that they would be taken into possession, that way they would have left their employees to HZZ. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204892	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204893	Dear Representative Bačić, I have a question for you, and this question is asked by many people involved in the transportation of passengers, especially when it comes to buses driving tourists. The fact is, the government banned tourists from entering the country, banned them from working on the other side, and on the third hand, the Leasing Houses continued to send credit rates to collect or rate leases, whatever they call it. I wonder why the government doesn't do anything about it. So, people have lost any income, and wars come at the rate of interest. By my judgment, the way you treat carriers is unserious because these people are going to find themselves in large financial delinquency, so I'm interested in your opinion and to tell me maybe the government has really decided to do something to help them, I'm interested in your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204894	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, the government did not prohibit tourists from entering, but closed their borders in this pandemic of the state's coronary. Therefore, we and if we had allowed anyone to arrive in the Republic of Croatia this arrival is not possible because the states that would be... and to the tourist markets because of their problems because they also close borders and traffic, the crossing across borders has been stopped. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for lying and credit at all, you're wrong. Both the government and the CNB and, with, with, with financial institutions aligned, agreed a moratorium that could be up to 12 months and which, the length of the moratorium, is agreed by both the bank and the client. And sometimes it's also in the interest of the client not to be 12 months, but to be shorter and depending on the position of the client, the moratorium is also agreed on shorter interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204896	Thank you. Dear representative Mrsic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204897	Dear colleague Bacic, you are trying to explain inexplicably. If one Germany that has an economy much stronger than we, which has also given its workers millions of euros, owns the structure of Lufthansa and other companies to which it has also delivered millions of euros, if the Croatian state has given 20 or 30 million kunas to certain companies, does not want to enter the ownership structure, in order to one day return those money back to the budget again and use it for something else, then something does not make sense to me. Otherwise, your Minister Aladrovic wonders today and says it is not natural for someone who pays dividends and bonuses to receive support and received support from each other. Therefore, you cannot explain why the state would not enter the ownership structure of the company in which 30, 40 or 50 million kuna will land today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204898	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you should have made little arrangements within the opposition with your own performances, as to whom it comes to mind, so it comes out for a pay phone and proposes measures. Let every country take care of its economy, a few years ago there was a specimen that Germany very richly and generously responded to all employers, so Grant gave them billions and billions of euros. We acted differently at the time, and now we've estimated that this is the most favourable way to access employers. Perhaps some employers would if they knew that they were going to be owned, simply thanked and said that we are not to blame for the economic situation, deliver you 50, 100, 200, 300 000 of our employees while the crisis is going on for you at the Employment Service, so you solve it financially with them, and we will continue to maintain those activities, business activities that we can in accordance with the principle of supply and demand. Therefore, every country chooses its own path, I think this time, which Croatia has chosen best for both the state and employers, and what is important for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204900	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204901	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you should not be overly burdened with your colleagues in the opposition because they have agreed with everything for a month, but now for a month they agree with nothing, it just bothers them because I can't believe that this is happening in Croatia in the best possible way. Let's say that Mrsic forgot while he was a minister that was in one time, I think one 420,000 unemployed, and I remember asking him to shut down that counter at the office because it was embarrassing, today the problem is 150,000 with everything we've been through in the past 2 months, so I support what you've said and the fact is that we did especially in public finances, the maximum possible to keep means of employment but that the system of public finances can normally function, and we who have been in local self-government for years, and we see how that works. All I can say about this minister is words of praise for everything he's done to us in the past three years and in this crisis right now. We can say that what we need comes neatly from the state regardless of all problems. Whoever wants to confirm it will, whoever won't, doesn't have to, but it's in the budget, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204902	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join my congratulations to our Deputy Prime Minister of Finance for managing the financial system of the state above all and in this crisis. I failed Mr. Mrsic, I agree with the number of employees at a time when he was Minister of Government and that dial, today there are 160 or 152, 3,000 unemployed, if I'm not mistaken. If it was possible to go to this model that he said before, we would have crossed that 420,000 very quickly and then to get rid of it later, I don't know. And with the right of counterpart Mrsic, he says that Minister Aladrovic expressed his position when it comes to employers who would pay dividends when the state delivered millions and millions of kunas to keep them busy, preserve jobs. Every item needs to be carefully considered, the employer needs to know that if he pays the dividend, that either that part of it must be returned or blocked, there are many ways to act and react but there will be time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204904	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this budget rebalance is primarily for those who have been playing the unfaithful Tom all along and hitting on each other here, should be put there. So, what does the government have to show for this rebalance? First, if she is aware that due to the coronary virus, due to the disturbances of certain economic activities, the income side will be greatly devastated and at the 3 most important revenues of the state budget, these are so-called. Consumer taxes, VAT and excise duties, contribution to pension, if you look at extra budget users, then you will see a contribution to health insurance and profit tax. So, this is about the revenue side, but what is very important and what has been said very little today is that, despite the fact that there have been some new costs, I think, above all, and this is the highest cost for preserving jobs, the government has decided to ask all budgetary users, insists that every minister, every user, the cost that simply could not have happened because of the reduced activities because of something else, that these budget users reduce their budgets and thus keep the expenditure side at the level as originally planned. And I think it's a great quality. The following thing to be said here, that the government in the talks, by means of agreements, has imported the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensured uninterrupted funding that it is missing in the state budget, and the shortages that outside budget users have and what is very important, this financial sector is preparing for what will come to say, the day after. And today it is later when certain economic activities are to be launched, if these certain economic operators do not have financial resources, they will very hard to do so. And what I said today in my replica, which is what we all have to pay attention to, especially the Government, which is that not only out-of- budget users, but all the companies in which the state is either a minority or a majority owner, have to think about carrying out obligations because simply what the state has any control must not be the indifference generator because that indifference is the most dangerous thing that can happen to us after what we're talking about. And one more thing, reform. So, all of our mouths are full of reform, but no one today has said that the state administration has taken one huge step practically 7 miles in moments when it was practically impossible to function, when citizens via the Internet, through some other electronic means were able to perform their own needs, although it was a long time ago idea when the OIB was being introduced to link the state administration in such a way and that citizens didn't have to go door to door but simply to file a request and then to have the state administration do their part of the job on official duty. Eh, colleagues and colleagues, I'll do two things with that. So when you look at the rebalance of the state budget, when you look at the expenditure side that is the most significant items of pay, pension, health care. Is there anything that can be changed without reform? He can't. And we just have to be aware of that, the ministers who are currently negotiating with the unions are aware of the situation that unions won't give in, no one's asking that with reform someone, some kind of right be reduced. We simply want to pay for those who work, and those who do not work or need to be in the state administration and thus get to a better, more efficient state administration that will benefit everyone, both citizens and economics and everyone. And what I always talk about when I talk about budget rebalancing is out-of- budget users. They are the ones who tomorrow with their financial potential and with their investment and investment from the EU fund, funds can be the generator of that first step in Croatia's economic recovery. Because colleagues and colleagues fall by 9%, 9.5, 10% is not something that won't leave any kind of scar on the RS economy, because we have to be simply aware of that and that's something that doesn't suffer political bickering. It's something that requires the political consent of all of us, to pass the laws to restore that economy, or else we'll tap like the SDP government tampered with 3 years after this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204906	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović's, all right. Then let's go to the replicas first. He's the first respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204907	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to read to you the letter or the announcement of Dragutin Hanžek. It's about a man who's been punished with 8,000 kuna fines because he went in his own tractor to unload the manure on his own field. He says, dear friends, I can't help but tell you about yesterday's announcement of headquarters for the upcoming elections. Mr. Capak's statement that the elections could be made at the time of self-insulation, it completely freaked me out, and then he explains that he was punished for taking the manure into the field. So here I'm asking you, is it normal for you, Mr. Schucker, that at the same time that people in self-insulation can go out to elections without a problem, and on the other hand, that these same people can't unload the fertilizer on their own field and they're being punished for it with 8,000 kuna? Is it economically justified for you, is it in the interest of people, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204908	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You must first know that these two decisions are not at the same time. At the moment when the movement was limited, practically between the settlements because of simply preventing the spread and it is today a confirmation that it definitely gave the results, and what you're talking about now is someone saying something like this along the way but at this point the e-passes have already been abolished, you can travel all over Croatia today that no one is stopping you. Therefore, you speak in two terms at different times. You can't put them at the same time. Because you're talking about someone being able to go to the election you're talking about the future that's gonna happen in a month and a half, two, three, it doesn't matter when, and when you talk about someone who couldn't go to their field, you're talking about the time that practically ended 10 or 15 days ago, and that provision was passed almost two months ago. And it's just a fact, and it's not good to mix and confuse things like that. If there was some awkwardness about those e-passes, it's probably But unfortunately, we're all as divided as we are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204910	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204911	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker when you spoke about the disturbance of certain economic activities in the Republic of Croatia this morning I received some information from our environment, here's SR Germany wondering this morning who will pay the account of the crown virus. They account for over 101 billion in the federal budget, and the drop in GDP is 6.3%, so it's not that small. What they fear is the loss of jobs, or strengthening social giving. So, the coronary virus and what found us, and also about this budget, the rebalancing of the RS budget is nothing new and unusual, no matter how many colleagues today talked about what could be done and how it could be done, but the fact is that not only we but the countries in the environment are actually going through the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204912	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204913	My colleague Babic, first this government said that health and its citizens are first in line. After some indicators were established, after knowledge of the experts, measures on the economy began to relax a little. The government also made it clear that certain activities that, due to the government's provisions, cannot function will help in such a way as to pay wages, etc. So the government has made it clear at the right time what needs to be done. However, now comes the day after which we are expected and the need for social contributions and the need to finance certain activities, and therefore a complete financial sector should at the moment be urged to use the funds available to the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia to be primarily at the service of the economy, to encourage it, as well as the state to finance its commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204914	Thank you very much. He raised his hand, it seems to me for a break, the esteemed representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204915	That's right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I demand a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, the Living Wall, and it concerns our debate on budget rebalancing. In fact, it is unacceptable that the expenditures of the state budget are reduced by not a single lip, and why? Because, respected citizens, over the past month, for a month and a half, minimals have been paid to certain companies, in particular bookmakers, and especially to debt enforcement agencies. This is where I'm going to provide one of the information from one of those agencies that was in 2013. Founded with 500,000,00 kn capital, capital capital, and this debt-to-deposit agency today has over 400 million kunas of underlying capital. So over the past years they have made enormous profits, and today the Croatian state, or this government, is helping them. Dear citizens, are you in favour of paying taxpayers' money to casinos, bookies and debt agencies? I'm sure you didn't. The second thing, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions in the last few days that if we had introduced the EURo, we were in a much better situation because we would have access to unlimited liquidity. In the past month, two German academics have signed a complaint to the German Constitutional Court because the European Central Bank bought state bonds from EUR 2600 billion from 2015 to 2018. The Germans have gone mad and are asking the question, claiming that Germany has no right, means to bear and finance to that end. They gave the European Court of Justice the ultimatum to respond within 3 months. This is the beginning of a great, let's just say, not the end of a monetary union, but the big problems, and they assure us it's security and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204916	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give it to you, and we have more requests for a break. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204917	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I am looking for a break because of the Croatian public to tell the true indicators. So it's not true that the budget hasn't been cut because this corona crisis is on the cost side of the state budget demanding new costs that are nearly 8-9 billion kuna. And if the budget hadn't been reduced then there would have been an increase in the expenditure side by 8 or 9 billion kuna, but since all budget users have cut their original budget for all those expenditures that will not happen because of the situation we are in, the government has therefore shown great effort and thus sent a message that it wants to keep the expenditure of the state budget at which they were voted. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, in finance is the worst ex-wise. We've had twice in the HS debate over government measures about incentives for, to retain seats. No one, but literally none of the MPs have risen, and that's what he said, and that one has no right to do it. But at the same time, you all forget that HANFA has made a decision on some of the financial sectors that it controls that can't pay off dividends. The CNB has made a decision that banks cannot pay the dividend. If someone has abused this government provision to help preserve jobs, the tax administration and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will establish it, punish it, pay back the money and what I think all fellow parliamentary representatives agree, the name of the company should be publicly published and placed on the pillar of shame. But in this way, you can't bid this one, you can't bid that one, you should be brave when measures have been taken, and that word has no right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that. So it's important at the right moment to react, help, because of the little weenie we can't throw away the whole grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204918	Thank you. We'll give you a break for up to 16 and 25. It's 4:00 P.M. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we've run out of time to take a break, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204920	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the respected chief state treasurer, Jakir Bajo, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when the budget agreed for this year, it was difficult to assume that we would also be hit by a pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and even less, on top of that, the earthquake. In June 2017, this government managed to get out of the excessive budget deficit procedure and in the 3rd year's orders, we recorded a budget surplus and a strong reduction in the share of public debt in GDP by more than 11% points compared to the end of 2015. We were proud to read last summer that Croatia was in debt for the first time at a negative interest rate. In 2019, the tourist year, the record year, we recorded with an increase of as much as 17% more income than what this government found and the increase in income, the arrival of 20% and the night of 16%, and it was really hard to imagine that the pandemic of the coronary virus would not stop, but suddenly that all of this fell into the water as if nothing had worked so and that we did not fast. As I said, on top of that, there was a city of Zagreb and an earthquake, few who said today and mentioned that as much as 40% of the income of the Republic of Zagreb or 58% of total profits of the entrepreneurs were achieved. To rebalance the budget in which revenues are significantly reduced, almost gone over the past months on some items, while retaining the same expenditure, is indeed a great skill and vice-president of the ministry and the entire government. In the past, the government has sought and succeeded, primarily to protect our lives, our health, and our jobs. In fact, the first package of measures, we had 63 measures and the second package provided for numerous and subsidies, delays in paying a certain tax, and only one measure, I would say, the most attractive one, with which to pay, is the salary of 4 thousand kuna, with the corresponding fees, was the most popular one, and only this measure last month will save about 600 thousand jobs, i.e. assistance from nearly 96,000 entrepreneurs. When I listen to some colleagues today when they say, we won't support this budget rebalance, I wonder if they represent any entrepreneurs at all, whether they represent any workers, employees who would have found themselves at the Employment Office if there hadn't been this measure by the Government, and precisely those measures are contained in this budget rebalancing. Only to support job conservation is 6.7 billion kuna, from the EU funds 1.6 billion kuna. Citizens' and households' fees increased by 327,9 million, subsidies by 5 billion kuna, we have also heard a lot of criticism about EU funds. The criticism is, in fact, how the amount is reduced. We need to know that there is a shift in public procurement plans, prolonging and changes in planned labour dynamics, however, it should be said when we talk about EU funds that incorrect information that we have paid more than we have received. In fact, we're on the plus with March 31st of 25 billion kuna. All those funds that we are obliged to withdraw by 2019 according to all the operational programmes we have also withdrawn, so the goal is met, and many more funds have been received, or redistributed, around 400m euros from EU funds, which for the purchase of medical equipment, which is for loans and financial instruments, and also for job retention measures. Once again, given that the actual exposure of 5 minutes is extremely short, I call on all colleagues and colleagues, if they want to protect one worker who has applied for this measure, i.e. entrepreneurs, to support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204921	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204922	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. This calls for the number of unemployed, etc., and it is not said that it has not responded so quickly and prevented this very number of unemployed from happening two months ago. In two months, much has changed, conditions have been created for both economic recovery and work, and something better can always happen afterwards. So, in general, why do they cause what is not to be caused, when these measures have already achieved a great deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204923	Thank you very much. Answer, the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204924	Thank you, colleague Peric. Well, the truth is, it seems to me that all those who are against this rebalancing are against the funds that these many of our workers have received. Looks like you'd rather have 600,000 people at the Employment Service, so we'd have more reason to call this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204925	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204926	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Get INAs and HT and HEP, etc. It is also accomplished in your Vodice and in my Pula, just book in the city of Zagreb and it would be good for you to mention it as former mayor because this is just another example of how centralized Croatia is. But what I wanted to ask you was something else, and I asked that this morning and the Honorable Vice President of the government, but he didn't know or didn't want to answer, and the question concerns the pausals paid by our tenants. I'm asking you why you and I come from a region that is dominantly touristic and I'm sure you understand that problem. So I'm asking you if you consider this flat tax to be for the second quarter that's up to 30. 6, should I charge or write off after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204927	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204928	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, I would like to say populistly, I am so that all these taxes are deleted and that none of our citizens pay any taxes, but we need to know who earns a certain income or a certain amount of membership or tax, and there are some people with personal incomes, some families are fed. Therefore, there should be a good measure of forgiveness and delay. And as for the city of Zagreb, I agree with you, I would also agree that the VAT that is coming to the Plodines in my Vodice will be the income of the town of Vodice, but we know very much how it works because 35% of the population lives in the city of Zagreb, it should be said that 48% of the exports leave the city of Zagreb, therefore, are all facts that should be considered when it is passed, perhaps in due course, some other bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204929	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204930	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you referred naturally to the priorities that were and the priority of this government was of course to protect the health of citizens, then to preserve the jobs that are both the government and the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance but also the entire ministry made in a quick reaction but of course you also referred to the withdrawal of EU funds and funds, and in your debate you said that in plus 25 billion kuna and of course on March 31st this year. Of course, this is one normal sequence and we all couldn't plan this crisis in November last year, and I thank you once again, of course, to the rapid reaction of the government, but also to the Minister of Finance and the complete ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204931	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204932	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maksimchuk, it is true when speaking help from European funds, is said to only one figure which, in my view, only prolonged or moved plans and public procurement, and there has been a change in the planning of the dynamics of the works done, however, is such as a refund from EU aid increased by 120 million kuna, other EU programmes by 53 million, EU aid to 29 million and 625 000, which means that there have been some changes in both terms and internal excesses in a different way in order to give priority to helping the economy, jobs and health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204933	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204934	Thank you very much, Vice President, just a brief intervention, I don't normally get to interrupt the debate in this morning's replica and now at the replica of my colleague Martinchev Juričev as regards private tenants and this is about the second quarter, the second quarter. In the rules of the General Tax Law, I thought that this was how I responded because we had already signed the criteria, a greater exemption as foreseen. So it says very clearly, obligations for the second quarter of this year will not be charged, so private renters have been released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204935	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204936	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you for having responded very clearly now, but I will read to you what I did this morning before I asked you, I found on the Tax Administration pages, which is the tenants who have submitted a request for a postponement of payment for the commitment made on 31.3. Please intervene and tell your colleagues from the IRS that they are correcting this because it creates a confusion among everyone visiting the IRS official website, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204937	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204938	Thank you very much. All right, let's make it clear to each other and to those who are watching us, or to those to whom we are going to deliver these messages. 31.3. refers to the commitment for the first quarter, this is the first quarter, so the flat-rate borrowers pay quarter or quarter, at the end of the quarter for that previous quarter, so 31.3. for the first quarter, 30.6. for the second quarter and what is in the general tax law is intended to be released precisely for that second quarter that should be paid 30.6., this is released, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204939	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204940	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, yes, a large number of small tenants have this problem but there is an even bigger problem with a large part of Slavonians who were the seasonal labour force on our sea and were left without a job and a question on their behalf, which they can expect since the announcements of the tourist season are real, are they likely to run out of jobs and 5 and 6 and 7 months? So, because of them, models need to be found to help these people who were seasons, this is one thing and the other, it is certain to continue investing in the tourist development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, there have also been announced major projects of tourism promotion of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, whether in the rebalance and that part is being reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204941	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204942	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, well, I think that you are, as of course, a talkative advocate, my God, from there and you come as I do, for the development and development of Slavonia and Baranja and, in general, our geographical view of the East, I think we can agree and then I'll use the answer to your replica, a word exactly to remind everyone. Until some time ago, not so long ago a survey among entrepreneurs who are the first factor of the restriction of further economic activity, which limits you most in further steps, etc., a labour force, a lack of labour. Among other things, of course, now that we are talking about the problem of keeping jobs and preserving jobs, we need to sort of remind everyone of that not so long ago. So even seasonal workers from Slavonia who went down to Dalmatia to work during the season must surely work in these circumstances as such, of course, should not be neglected, but at the same time we repeat, so we put the measures we put into operation in the circumstances that they are and we will see how and how to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204943	We have another replica of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204944	Dear Minister, please answer the question precisely, in the last month in order to save the economy and help the economy, to what extent did you charge us at a fixed interest rate and at which, with a variable interest rate on loans and bonds? And another important question, did you negotiate these loans and bonds with the currency clause? Because if you accidentally made a deal, you never gave us that information, not you, not the Prime Minister. If you've put us in debt at a variable interest rate of 10 years. e.g., but for 2-3.g. The interest rate comes back to 4.5.6%, you've done a lot of damage, and you could've put us in charge of financing Kunski through the CNB at 0%. If you've negotiated a currency clause, you've done the same great harm because it increases the eurorization of the entire system, you're putting us at currency risk. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204945	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204946	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In particular, a concrete answer is available to you publicly anyway, but I will try to sum up those 6 billion and 100 million kunas that we have agreed with the 6 largest Croatian banks, bilateral arrangements, each of them of course details are known, I think that more than half of these arrangements are at a fixed interest rate, some of them are bound to a six-month vault record, so they have some variable component, but I repeat, more than half of them are fixed. The bond and vault records know that they are always practical at a fixed interest rate. So, the vault log that we've refinanced at an interest rate of 0.06 per year, that's the one that's reaching and will be reaching for now a little less than a year. And this bond that's recent, the last instrument that we've issued as well as each one is at a fixed interest rate of 0.75%, it was also a contribution, so we've issued it with a pair, per pair at 7.g. That's it. What? [[The bogeyman from the bench is heard.]] This last one is a billion EUR 445, so we're talking about, that's exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204947	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204948	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I would like to say a few words about the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. with projections for 2021 and '22. Because the basic question was whether or not to change the budget now or not to change it, the responsible Government made it clear that a budget rebalancing may also be taking place as part of the measures for the month. As the March March measures went, the March measures, so this is one of those parts of the March 2020 measure, and as a result of this pandemic that surprised us all. Going back only 3 months or 70 days, it's clear that we've all lived at our own pace, and no one has thought that we're going to talk here about budget rebalancing, we've all seen each other in different relationships, and there hasn't been any debate about whether the state is going in the right direction or wrong, we've mostly been dealing with some other topics that weren't at all about finance. But there was a virus that apparently locked not only us but the whole world. The strongest states, those that can on the moon, simply stand today locked up and fight for their population, i.e. for the health of its citizens. We do it now after this situation that we started to verify, for reasons unknown to me, because everything is comparable, and the data is all out there, I just don't understand why we're doing it? Why are the hardworking people on the front line being valued in a way that we now question them in general and their expertise and anything else in terms of some kind of politics? For what? So we have EU countries with which we can compare, our sizes, 4 million inhabitants, a little more population, so let's compare, it's not a problem at all. Let's look at Ireland, do we want that scenario? 20 and how many, 23 135 infected, 1500 dead. Or everyone's talking about some Swedish guy. Here's a colleague here who advocated a Swedish model. 27 000 infected, 3300 dead. Today we're creating a problem here, unfortunately, for the deceased in the nursing homes, and it didn't have to happen, it happened. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a problem or a virus that we don't have a solution for, but we're very easily earning efforts and all the citizens who were willing to lock themselves up or stop their lives to get out of this situation. I'm coming from the island, we've been locked up for 50 days, four ferry lines a day, just delivery, just delivery. Until recently, three regions within the county, here from Monday last we travel freely without passes and it's like all normal, nothing was normal. And I wonder by the reactions of everyone, for what? Why are we underestimating this effort that everyone has made to have the situation that we have today? We have 300 I think and 8 active people who are infected, 308, there are no countries in the EU that have so many. And that's too much for us. And it needs to be reduced, it'll shrink safely if we're responsible. And this, the government's reaction through the March measures, for April, so we first had the universal enthusiasm. General acceptance and now that we realize these measures, we are all against them because the opposition can and we know and accept it as a reaction because the goals are now quite another. They may even be imposed in some way on the side of the opposition. We wanted elections first, now we don't want them anymore. Okay, everybody's fighting for their own politics. . /. And I'm looking with And I'm looking from the local level, what are our calculations now? On communal compensation and pay contributions. We stopped everything else, especially those who live on tourism. No public area, no concession approvals, no concession revenues, no revenue practically from construction, here and there some contributions. There's no payment in the budget. Of course we've been reacting with rebalances, and we're waiting for what the government is going to say that we know what we're going to do, we've tried to do what we can. If a construction worker can't make it to the island, what can we do? We stopped all the projects. And these are situations that are real, they need to be looked at that way, not all politics. And let's be realistic, according to this effort, to reduce expenditures, but those 8 billion more that have been incurred as expenditure in the fight against something. And we can't underestimate it and say nothing has been reduced, not even by lime. Yeah, it's getting smaller, it's just a question of how anybody wants to read it. I know that every 150 of us here would put together a budget the way it suits him and no one would be satisfied. But I think this budget shows that we have a measure of optimism. What happens in the 10th month? I'd like to say we're gonna have a great season from 15.7 to 15.8. Maybe it's possible, and maybe it's not, it's not all up to us. I think we're showing responsibility and what people want from us. And it's to feel at least safe, as safe as it can be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204949	We have several replicas again, Mrsic's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204950	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, so no one doubts that the results are healthy, but here we are talking about throwing money without any criteria, and among the 10 biggest companies that received support from the state are hotel companies that have a permanent season, some baker's companies that were selling at the time, until we have companies that had a delivery, so we've seen rows in front of these companies. Also, those owned by the pump, therefore, were seen to have been thrown in such a way that there was no control and you had no answer. Yes, we started with 420 thousand unemployed, we ended up with 285 thousand 31.12.2015, 135 thousand less, you started with 285,000, before the crown you had 143 thousand, so net 142 thousand, so the same thing we did in four years, so when you criticized, look at a little bit of numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204951	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204952	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I come from an island where we have a hotel house that owns Valamar, and has a daughter who owns it, named Imperial and your way, and these companies should not receive any compensation even though they are locked up, so today there is no activity, no hotel is open, no camp is open. Last year at this time of the 12.5th, everything was open, working in it 200 people. If you think and represent the the thesis that these people should have lost any help or that they should have received nothing from the state, you continue to do so, as well as in the campaign or any future time. I think the state should have done it and done it the best possible way. How the question of evaluating everything that happened in the fast run will be addressed, let's say the procedure to reach the time because a month is not too much time to solve everything, by the more we were halfway through the month when all these different measures and behaviors started, I know that it was responding to help all of us. Is it fair to everyone, I think it was probably the ones who They made something that they shouldn't have, but there's a state to determine that in later times. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204953	The next replica is the respected representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204954	Dear colleague Boris, you said you didn't understand why we're acting like this. At first, we all boasted, and now he's attacking himself and he's looking for guilt. We'll remember, we've heard it countless times, they've waved at the savior of the olive branches, they've worshipped him, they've yelled at him in a few days. But here is the fact, the fact that no one can deny, the fact that all those who have requested, received, the fact is that the businessmen in that part of which the work is banned, not only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but from all the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have received numerous benefits and have all been one goal and I think that this is a legitimate goal and that it deserves all praise. Save the job, save the economy, because that's the only model we can think about getting out of this situation. There is every praise to the government for its determination, as well as to the Staff, and all that is going on in the future. It will show how correct these measures were. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204955	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204956	Thank you very much. I, my colleagues or the staff, understand when they said they were the same people as at the beginning, and today after 77 days. Some understood that at the beginning, but after 77 days, unfortunately they didn't and tried to insult them, which I disagree with, but it's obviously their right, which was before, we've been through a different time and we remember them all. We also remember the migrant crisis and the crisis headquarters established by the SDP government to address the activities of the entry of immigrants into the Republic of Croatia. Who was in charge of this Command? Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Who were the members? All in a row, deputy ministers from the new ministries. But we hear today that it wasn't a political body at the time that this crisis headquarters was just today a political body, it was probably all HDZ's, and unfortunately there are no SDPs here anymore. I mean, it's so below the level of anything, they've dealt with one problem, this Staff is dealing with another problem and there's a law that solved them in terms of who should be a member and who can join it. But I'm saying, everyone has a chance to show up next time what he's been doing. and how he acted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204957	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204958	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I agree with you, fellow Boric, that we must watch what we say in HS and not empower those people who are in the Staff today. The fact is that before this crisis we had a balanced budget, that should be said, with a surplus budget. Unfortunately, this situation that has now happened has wiped it out, which is why this rebalancing. You may also need to see how and how certain problems are being fought or solved, including the economic problems of the country in our environment. Today, we compare a little with those we used to be together with, but we should also see that perhaps more with those who are members of the EU. Even EU members do not have the same access to the coronary virus, many have made mistakes. For example, one Switzerland experienced a disaster, especially some cantons that were toward Italy. The Sweden you now mention, so didn't we have yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the arrival of our people from Switzerland who were infected on the plane and after 3 years, a coronary virus appeared in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204959	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204960	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, but it just seems to us, and we tend to hurt everything we do well, so we've had it for the past 20 days, I say especially by the opposition when it started to question everything. So we're comparing ourselves with a Danish who, say, has ten thousand infected and over 500 dead, when they open schools we say and we want to open schools, we open schools now the kids won't go to school. That's the problem. Why? I spoke to the teachers at my field school yesterday. Not one child of them 40 and something didn't come to school, 77 days on the island we didn't have any infected. The night before, all the kids were playing at the playground. I ask why, she says, I don't want to be the one who wants to determine which nine children they need to go to school or don't need to go to school, as if there's no other options or divisions in any group, etc. And the conversation, the easiest thing to say is okay, but then let's not compare ourselves to anyone. Then let's say that we did something ourselves or that we're better, but let's not keep saying that we're worse if we see if everything else indicates that I think we're much better than many.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204961	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204962	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Treasury, colleagues and colleagues, so until the announcement of the pandemic itself and by the World Health Organization that took place in the 3rd month, more precisely on 11 March 2020, the Republic of Croatia had a balanced budget, had stable public finances, had a reduction in public debt, lower unemployment, higher employment and a budget surplus. In the very health crisis we entered from one significant surplus position in the current and capital account other words of a larger export than imports or a larger inflow of capital than the outflows of the capital itself, and we actually used that surplus during these past years to deleverage to the abroad or to strengthen the foreign reserves themselves. The government was following global events, and knowing that we had already 25.2. had the first case of coronary infection with the virus actually also brought that 63-measure package where it was actually intended to intervene or disperse wherever at that point and what the government and headquarters had concluded as such. This package has been very helpful to the economy, and only to prevent the dismissal of workers. Imagine if there had been a discharge of workers or if the government hadn't intervened, we would have at the Bureau instead of what I know today, 152,000 unemployed, maybe 250 or 300,000 unemployed. At that moment there would actually be a social depression, and we, you on the street today in your places, we can't feel that depression in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the results in the economy that are actually conditioned by this coronary virus. The state has done everything primarily to save people's lives, to preserve the health of its citizens aware that after the pandemic of this virus that cannot be contained in such a way, at least reduce the number of infected persons and that the health system as such does not come into question. This is why this budget rebalancing is here today in the Croatian Parliament, from which it is clearly visible, and these are the figures that are not being hidden, in fact, the revenues that fell by nearly 23 billion kuna, but the government is sending a clear message to both the economy and the socially endangered groups and individuals, cultural workers, farmers, pensioners, in fact to everyone. And when you look at certain items that are related to this budget rebalancing, or those who, for example, have lost it, and these are all those who had to cut their items on the revenue side of the budget are certain ministries that are exclusively related to workers, jobs, subsidies in agriculture and health only. As far as expenditure is concerned, so they stayed at the same level precisely because of the reason and that is the clearest, biggest message from the Croatian government. Some colleagues today have said that the EU has not been involved in this, but it should be said that these EU-related funds are, in fact, made possible by a more flexible approach to be allocated. What I'm trying to say here right now, and there's been talk about it, and some MPs have been talking about it, and I've been getting some kind of, uh, some messages from some of the companies, and I'm going to mention them. So it's 1,200 of our companies that are related to domestic licenses or 800 international or those carriers that don't work in inter-urban or inter-linear traffic but are exclusively focused on tourism and they haven't had any income and have complained of, of course, banks that have been taking credit rates, or they've been getting notices or costs, and one lady told me, the government, the Croatian government, literally said, has done a lot for us entrepreneurs, but of that part we have to give to the banks. So we have to give some of the money to the banks which he doesn't think is good because, now that we're here on interest and expenses, they have absolutely no income. She begged me that the government of the Republic of Croatia intervened in that part, and the government really intervened, and I got it from her this morning, and they said they intervened, the banks lifted all our costs, and they said that as such we don't have to, we don't have to commandeer. So this is extremely valuable and commendable because the government has actually engaged in the best possible way in all segments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204963	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Klaric will be the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204964	You mentioned that so much depression, given the magnitude of the crisis and everything that is happening and compared to our environment. You also mentioned cutting items. Sometimes you have to pay to get more. So what's more is that every preserved workplace, what's more, that's what you're right now going on in the field right now, to keep under the control of the epidemic. And what will be more is what will allow the economy to continue to function normally as it does. We in my town when we were making a decision to release entirely from the communal fee or 50% of those production activities or all those who are a decision of the headquarters, we made a calculation, we lost in this month and a half 2 million and a half kuna, aware that this deficit would get us something much more in the coming months because all those we released now with relief measures continued to function normally, and that's the point So it's not just cutting items that will reduce income, it's what will increase it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204965	Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204966	Thank you very much. That's right, my colleague Klaric, actually after the government's measures were adopted, I needed all the county, all the municipalities and cities to act in the same way that you did. In fact, in such an act in the city of Bakru, you have actually shown that you care about the economy, that you care about jobs, aware that there is no sudden departure of such workers to the Employment Service, which would only then create a certain depression. Do not forget that Croatia is also a country, an broadcasting country and that in fact all the counties in this area should be very careful in this crown and should actually be sort of free of charge of the county precisely because we should welcome the first tourists at a very reasonable time. So, we all needed to be in the interest of getting more involved, far more than the national headquarters, that we would also hire ourselves in local places to keep an eye on such things so that we wouldn't have that happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204967	Thank you. The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204968	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Babic, you are, I understand that you are praising the government and that we are now going ahead of the elections and that you are all delighted with the actions of this government, I missed my colleague Boris for the past month and a half while he was locked up on the island of Rab because we have not listened to such discussions, we who have debated these months and a half obviously have not heard us, I would have preferred that you were here so that you could listen to us. So, we've all given the same solutions and offered proposals from the opposition that you didn't accept or accept afterwards, it doesn't matter, we'll talk about it for the next few days, then two months. So people will weigh but you're looking at your colleague Babic, don't overdo it. So, you said now that there was no measure of government, that a large part of the people would end up at the Bureau and that there would be general depression. Are people happy and not depressed, do they call HDZ those who had a little more pay, say 5, 6, 7000, and because of these measures, the government fell on the minimum? Do you get calls from people whose employers put them on the minimum, they get from the government 4,000 kuna and those 750 in their pocket? So, I'll talk about it in my individual debate but don't make too much noise. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204969	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204970	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, it is good to know how to turn things around in a good way and make it so populistly acceptable to the public. And who's happy who had a salary of 10, 12, 13,000 kunas to pay 3 or 4000 kuna? Nobody's happy. What you're alluding is that the government produced this virus. The government didn't produce the virus, so she's lucky it happened. The government has only acted in the best possible way at the moment. The measures you were taking were too late, they were not acceptable, they were quite populist, so it was necessary to find that money, it was not found and you did not explain it in the best possible way to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204971	Thank you, colleague Djujic. You've caused a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been injured... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204972	Yeah, yeah, I did, uh... Art. In 238, therefore, my colleague Babic insults me when he says that I am alluding to the fact that she produced the virus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, it's not either I'm alluding or I think you're happy about it, maybe you're lucky that the virus showed up because everything that's wrong in Croatia, you say it's the virus. Maybe it's the virus that didn't, say, your ministers couldn't fill the property cards, so 15 of them left this government, it's the virus, no one's guilty. So if anyone's happy about the virus in this country, it's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204973	Okay. Comrade Djujic, of course, you know it wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if it was, then you've done it now, exactly the same. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm still tolerated, I'm probably going to take time, I'm going to become less tolerated. So let’s not use it instead of replicas. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204974	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, here you heard fellow Djujic, he says I was locked up, I watched him on TV, he and his discussions, which were all in order when the measures were taken to increase the budget spending item by about 10 billion kuna, I was surprised that they had no measures for pets, and that was the only thing that was missing so that they would get some compensation. But today we're listening again on behalf of the club of colleagues of Greeks and Lalovec who say you haven't cut anything on the expenditure side, it's SDP policy, I'm lying today, I'm fixing myself tomorrow, and these are the moments we need to go out on some kind of megday ahead of the voters, right? They say we talked to the Most, then this one says we didn't talk to the Most, then I talk to someone on behalf of the Most every day. They've increased the budget expenditure rate by 10 billion and today they're asking why it hasn't been cut yet. They'll probably sort of do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204975	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204976	Thank you very much. Most of the replica was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204977	And I'm sorry, just a little while, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms has, I haven't seen, raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204978	Dear colleagues and colleagues, an officer has been injured. 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Future Honorable Representative, Boris, did not replicate the representative who spoke but, above all, replicated fellow Djujic and then defied himself and you missed him by warning him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204979	Well, of course it's not because if I were to react to it, then I'm sure everyone would have a warning very soon. All right, here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204980	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It's true, fellow Boric, you have partly referred to your colleague, Djujic, but rightly so. His escapades, which were through individual debates, partly cheered us up here in HS. But I don't want to believe what my colleague Djujic said, but even now what you're saying, I don't want to believe that the government had any space to help the economy more, and to developmental social groups. So, according to financial opportunities and budgetary opportunities, the government has given its maximum because of the absence of certain social disturbances, especially those economic tectonic disorders. For 30 or 40 days we were witnesses, it wasn't easy to endure, but the fact is that we didn't get depressed, it's extremely important for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204981	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I'm about to start with may not seem to be related to today's subject at first sight, but it's very much so. And I will begin by congratulating all the nurses in the Republic of Croatia on Sisterhood Day and reminding them that last year, during the summer, nurses fought for their material status, but also for the status of other healthcare professionals, especially doctors, since the doctor is not representative of the medical union and could not participate in collective negotiations. And those rights that the nurses had won less than a year ago are reduced by this rebalancing that we are talking about today because if you look at the rebalancing amount relating to receiving all public sector employees, and that means that the reduction and receipts of those we have been beating for the last two months are on the front line of defense, nurses, doctors, technicians, firefighters, cops, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that this is wrong, not only because we are hitting on the material status of those who have suffered a tremendous burden in this crisis but also because we are jeopardising the speed and possibility of recovery of public finances. The Institute of Public Finance, about a month and a half ago, made and published an analysis that clearly shows that the reduction of wages in the public sector, in fact, has a negative impact on the budget in the short and medium term and in the long term. So in short, we cut the branch we're sitting on. I know you're gonna vote this, but it's still my duty to warn you. The other problem is that many colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me have pointed to the question of support. We have spoken, we have warned, yes, we have spoken, and we have warned both in the assembly and outside it, although it was about the measure that the Government has brought and which has not been appointed by the Parliament that there are no criteria, that money is divided by hand and hat and by those who need it and those who do not need it. And today, colleagues and colleagues, we found out where that money came from. In particular, nearly half a billion kuna has been taken from a fund designed to help employ people with disabilities. For the help of the disabled, for those who suffer in every crisis, and for this one, the hardest to suffer, are the hardest to suffer because they will surely get no job without such help and support. But from the fund that all employers in the Republic of Croatia have over 20 employees, we seized the fund to share without criteria those who pay dividends. And Mr. Aladrdovic can complain today that it was bad and can say that this money will return, but given the way the government acted, unfortunately there is no legal basis for it. And why is that? Because the criteria were prescribed in such a way that they were fulfilled by those who did not need the money. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about the need to react quickly in the crisis and that sometimes it takes away mistakes, but this wasn't a mistake, this was a disaster. A disaster decision that has resulted in catastrophic consequences, and the money for it is on the account that was intended for the most needed in the Republic of Croatia. I won't raise my hand for it, and I can't. And let me just end up with a brief review of the City of Zagreb, despite not living here I have a lot of friends living in those parts of the City of Zagreb who are particularly affected by the earthquake. And almost every day, one of them asked me what would happen to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. And I can't answer that question, probably not you who sit here and look at me, what in... And if you look at this budget rebalance, you'll see that the money for that kind of renovation is not foreseen. Smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204983	Thank you very much. We have replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204984	Thank you very much. You said at the beginning of your debate that perhaps at first sight your debate would have nothing to do with today's topic, but it certainly had something to do with it because do not follow these HDZ people, their discussions today have nothing to do with today's topic, but they are in the campaign. Here's my colleague, Boric, hasn't been here in months, and now he's making up for that part, so I guess he's talking about all the topics we've been talking about for the past month. And these five, six days we have to talk about everything. We need to talk about the reconstruction of Zagreb, we need to talk about 15 ministers who left this government, about property cards, about the Most coalition partner HDZ who brought them to power twice, all of this is a topic. We're in the election now, and it's all about this budget rebalance because he's pre-election, because he's like this, because he's pre-election, and that's why there's no spending-side drop, because we're probably going to have one more rebalancing, some new government, and we have to talk about it, and I'm sick of this situation, so we're not happy, so we're going to be 2 months from now. Being in power, we'll have to pay back your debts and what you've already destroyed three times, so we're not happy about it, don't tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204985	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204986	The Honorable Vice President Reiner is today benevolent, so perhaps I shouldn't have been introduced but used to some stricter criteria, yet I wanted to fence in advance so I wouldn't be warned that I wasn't holding the subject but a joke aside. Yes, this budget is pre-election. Well, it's pre-election that everything that's been going on in Croatia in the last few weeks, pre-election is the press of the headquarters, it's pre-election to pass a Voluntary Health Insurance Act where we claimed that the censorship is rising for some 200,000 Croatian citizens, although in reality it's 12 to 15 000. Pre-election is what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia does, it is pre-election what the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia does. It's all pre-election and what's best of all, and it's legitimate to be pre-election but it's not legitimate to lie about it and that's the biggest problem. They pretend this has some kind of epidemic or some kind of background, but it's actually pre-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204987	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204988	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am glad that you mentioned this and indeed used the right words "abstained" on the portal in Index, in which all employers who do not meet the quota are paying. The lawyer says nothing has been notified or questioned about the fund, thus ruining or preventing it, reducing the possibility of hiring the most vulnerable groups of this society. It's not good and if it wasn't an accident, it shows the fact that the Index portal that the law was amended last month, it's already past the month for such a transaction to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204989	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204990	A respected colleague, right, and that's the problem. All the crises we've been going through have taught us one thing. In them, the first and most people who suffer the most, the migrants suffer, are many Croatian citizens who have gone to Germany, Ireland and so on. They felt because the migrants were the first to start losing their jobs, the minority groups died, the disabled, the disabled. But that the government can stand and carry it in this way and directly grab the fund that is intended, in which it is paid exclusively for the purpose of helping those who are in an extremely difficult life situation, who need help, and I didn't expect it, and I have to admit that I'm surprised by the amount that needs to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204991	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Malacans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is only partly an insight into the financial situation that hit Croatia at the time of this crisis, both central and local finances. This crown crisis in Croatia has invented a lot of hot water, and one of these revolutionary discoveries is that Croatia needs reforms of local self-government and territorial reconstruction. The media, politics, are telling the public that local self-government in this crisis has not acted responsibly, how it has been handled under-disciplined, and that it is, in fact, the worst link in the pandemic fight system. So because the local self-government has so responded, we need a reform of local self-government. The conclusion, however, is true, but the premise that led to this conclusion is entirely to blame. One of the logical arguments offered to us for territorial reconstruction is that, at a time when they were still in force of the e-pass, when communication within local self-government units was limited, the media talked about how there are municipalities and cities that don't even have mail, have no ATMs, have no kindergarten, don't actually have enough residents. So is it local self-government's fault that the Croatian government, that the Croatian post office was rationalized and that they abolished businesses throughout a series of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia? Is that the responsibility of local self-government? One of the following arguments they offer and that tells us about how bad the local state is in this crisis is that the local state simply has no financial capacity to deal with this crisis, that's absolutely correct, but who's responsible for it? This Government, or the Law on the financing of local self-government units, is responsible for focusing exclusively on income tax. So even then, it means that the capacities of the sub-disciplined local self-government as far as finance and administration are concerned, have suffered a huge burden of this crisis because almost 30% of all these gifts we've given to the economy, went to the back of the local self-government. The local self-government is also the first to start layoffs, and it is the local self-government that first began to forgive local taxes or communal fees, communal contributions and all that, therefore, filled its budgets. When it comes to the effectiveness of local self-government, then from all of this is visible and the next is that territorial reconstruction is important, it may be necessary but it is not the most important. The most important thing for the functioning of local self-government units is the way of funding, and right now it is actually showing that the way to finance local self-government is bad, that it is insufficient and that it does not give sufficient capacity to local self-governments to deal with, to deal with these crises. Although, colleagues and colleagues had it not been for the 100th and 100th community of civil protection, there were not 100ths and 100ths of volunteer firefighters, if there were not 100 members of civil protection, the measures proposed and ordered by the National Civil Protection Headquarters would not have been carried out so successfully that they were not implemented locally. It was all on the back of the local community, municipalities and cities again. Not a single kuna still based on the Fire Department is paid to firemen, voluntary firefighters for their expenses during this crisis. But to conclude in the end and these five minutes, that we really need the reform of local self-government, but in this way ad hoc solutions it will actually lead to a completely wrong and even worse situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204993	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204994	Thank you very much. Col. Mateljan, you have well warned that through these measures, and through rebalancing in many ways, it was going to reduce the incomes of local and regional self-government units and not to see models and ways to compensate, and most of these municipalities, cities and counties went with their own measures, support to the economy and among the first to react. Obviously, they will not be able to monitor this in the future unless a model of funding units of local self-government is found, and thank you very much to all volunteer firefighters, because without them many local self-government units could not carry out either the protection of the property of citizens or many other humanitarian projects. And we should also commend the firemen Orubica and Davor who put out the fire last night at the dump site of Bacanska, where there was another fire because of the lack of concern of the local chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204995	Your Honor, Mr. Mathelan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204996	Thank you very much. Yes, a colleague of nearly 70% of all local self-government's original incomes is being taxed on income. With no income tax, we lose 70% of our income. The projects that we are doing, which we must bring to an end, are primarily EU funds projects under measure 7, in measure 6, in this way beheaded financially very, very difficult to bring to an end, and I wonder how we will finance these projects that are the corrections that the authorities will impose on us, I am simply afraid of how local self-government will survive this year. If the government's goal is that local self-government dies on its own then this is a good goal and then this virus will destroy us all together and then these reforms, that reform won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204997	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers, this is what I'm going to begin my debate in a way that I'm surprised that this rebalancing went now in the last week of practically sitting this way, but it's clear and it should be made clear that this is one pre-election rebalancing and unfortunately this is not the last rebalancing this year. None of us are happy that he's coming, but this is evident that when we look at the structure of this rebalancing, so that there's no fall on the expense side of the serious, that government forecasts are what they are in relation to the whole environment, I would even like to say that I have to do it, but this is the fact that this is one pre-election budget and that we need to talk about it here right now. But here I am encouraged to change the dynamics of the debate because I was encouraged to do so by my HDZ colleagues who, in fact, today, especially my colleague, Boris, my colleague Babic, are discussing me in a way that praises my mouth, this one, but it is unfortunate that they remain in that, not following Prime Minister Plenkovic, who says new normal, they stayed in that old fashion because they were gone for a month and a half, so they were set up, their chip to the one before this corona crisis. And we've entered this whole crown crisis into a new, new model of functioning, so new normal, and in a month, two of us are going to enter a fully rebooted, rebooted model of governance. So, what's this about? We have all the time as an opposition to the full mouth of the Government on community, on calling for consensus, on all of us to be together, propose certain measures, offer solutions, offer ourselves to include ourselves in the interests of all citizens solving these problems together, but what we warned about a month and a half ago today is proving to be true. So that's when we said that the HDZ is essentially this crisis, it's like it's only about HDZ and who's the issue of just the ruling coalition and who's not concerned with all the other citizens who aren't HDZ's. Let me remind you that on another package of measures, Prime Minister Plenkovic presented only to coalition partners and the second day brought him here to the assembly instead of presenting it to all parliamentary parties, that we were supplementing ourselves, that we were all giving some sort of solution in the interest of Croatian citizens, no, you're acting unilaterally all the time. On the other hand, we're seeing with this headquarters today, and here it is trying to impute us that we want to degrade this headquarters. You say here they were the same people before, they're the same today. They did, they used to be, they're the same today, they're just saying one thing today, and yesterday they were saying another thing. So, yesterday whoever was breaking self-insulation was a bioterrorist who took a rifle and went into a shopping mall and shot people, and today it's a person who's not infected, who's not dangerous just here is a little bit at greater risk because he might have been with someone else in touch. So this is an indicator of why the devastating political staffing of HDZ is doing. And this is the time when we have to remind the citizens of that, we have to file accounts. So he can't die somewhere 20 people where he's headed by a political key and to say guilty is a virus, nobody's guilty, alive, alive, alive, who's guilty of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u204999	And yet it has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205000	So there is, there is, there is, look, so we're afraid in this rebalancing isn't, say, compensation for people who are traumatized. Who's going to pay for these people who buried the wrong woman? They can sue the state, they can sue the hospital, so it has something to do with academics, so in this rebalancing these things were supposed to be envisaged, I don't see them, which is why I'm appealing to it. As for the measures, the government reacted quickly, the first package wasn't, it wasn't so perfect, and by the densest of entrepreneurs, and after their intervention came the second package and ok. I personally have no major objections to that part, but what I want to say. That didn't save jobs, unfortunately, as HDZ colleagues say. It was an artificial breathing to a drowning patient, now that patient, and that patient is a Croatian economy, is currently on the respirator, and if he survives, we'll see. In the interest of all of us, it would be good to survive, unfortunately we don't know what the season will be, or if all these economic operators will survive. Now, I'm already seeing after these first five, six days of some kind of return to the economy in normal, and we see that the revenues have fallen terribly, and the question is, how is this going to end together, and then eventually we're going to see if these measures have had an effect or haven't. Unfortunately, here's my time, it's a little bit of that five minutes to talk about it all, but this Well, yes, I'll respond to the replicas, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, but you will now be able to respond to colleague Leakovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205001	Dear representative Leakovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You warned your colleague, Djujic, that we are being imputed to the demeaning of the professional work of the civil protection headquarters, that is absolutely not true. What is actually happening is that this professional part of the work of the headquarters has been kind of overshadowed in the last few weeks as we have already warned and as visible from the daily presses by a political action of the headquarters, so sometimes it seems to me that experts and experts at headquarters actually degrade our common sense. However, what I am particularly concerned about is today's situation when Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozinovic in fact prevented Mr. Capak from answering the question asked by journalists, so I wonder whether Mr. Bozinović, in fact, is being demeaning, for example, the professional work of headquarters and the expertise of Mr. Capak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205003	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205004	Well surely fellow Leakovic, belittles, Mr Bozinović was what patriotic this was today you can speak, you can't, journalists ask one member of the headquarters he says I'll answer that question, it's not a topic. So yesterday, Mr. Capak said we'd go to the polls with, uh, self-insulating people with a mask and that's normal and that's okay. And that's contradictory of what they said a month ago, that's the problem, that's what we're warning you about. And then today, when the HDZ doesn't like Bozinovic there, it prohibits them from speaking and prohibits them from speaking. Look, that's the problem, Mr. Capak is a member of the HDZ, so it's not the devil that in this country all experts are in HDZ alone, that there are no other experts, I'm not saying that they have to be from the SDP or any other party, let them be impartial, I believe there are. But the problem is, let's say, home in Split, home in Koprivnica, the problem is when they're on that political, Mr. Capak is there because he's politically placed on his post, that should be clearly said, the Emperor is naked, we go to the elections and he is there not because he is the best in Croatia but because he is a member of the party. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205005	Now, now, you've exhausted my tolerance and more of it's not a replica, and I'm not going to tolerate any responses to the replicas. I'll make warnings. which has nothing to do with the subject. [[/Intruder: What?]] This next individual debate was supposed to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate, so he will be the next respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately in the beginning that this very important topic should be spoken of here without any restraints and pointed to all problems because the budget is a document that covers all aspects of the political action of the Croatian Government and when you see this document you must be concerned about what will happen at the end of this year. So, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that already in these technical changes that we have made possible by Minister Marić over the past few months, the crisis has been all sucked up, for example, from the economy and the promotion of certain business activities. So these programmes are almost all deleted from the budget for the past two months and you can see that they are not even returning to this budget rebalancing and then the question is how do we and what do we generally expect from the Croatian economy and how we are going to help the Croatian economy to get on its feet and make sure that at the end of the year there are no more than 400,000 unemployed and that people start working as soon as possible. Because I will tell you colleagues and colleagues the problem is, and it will be very soon for Minister Maric to see the consumption and rework of part of the Croatian economy that will not start working quickly, nor will these traffic be so generous, that it is likely that one large part of the hospitality will fail, and on the other hand, the country's income will be much less. And now that it can be done without talking about the unemployed who will further escalate when we remove this measure of 4,000 kuna, which, by the way, is no longer planned in the budget for the next 3 months, what was initially announced 3 + 3, unfortunately, is no longer in the budget. And what I have to say is that this is the budget and this whole story and announcements and talks of the Prime Minister who will discuss certain reforms, the savings in the area of salaries in the state sector, all together only in terms of elections. Because when you see that in 2 months he has failed to agree and eventually the unions do not agree, and they can understand why the unions do not agree, since they see that there is no coherent policy or any special policy, it is clear that Plenkovic wants to hold elections as soon as possible, try to renew the mandate and then do what he was supposed to do in the talks at the moment. Prepare the state for a few years of major crisis. His only problem is that he won't be able to do it, and we're going to lose months and months of time, and that crisis is going to be much longer than it's supposed to be. And no one here can argue with that. Neither can Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Perić nor Mr. Šuker from HDZ who are the only ones left here and not Minister Zdravko Maric who is aware of what kind of ambition Croatia is falling into, and primarily because of the subordination of Mr. Plenkovic's mandate and not only what he said and fellow Djujic, it is terrible to watch these people now every day explain something that is not explained to us. They started with why they can't do theatres and cinemas and they can hold Masses today, yesterday tells Mr. Capak that people who are in self-insulation can go free to vote and, of course, people no longer have absolutely no confidence in that company, and it would be best if they stop working. Here I suggest that these "missions" at 2 o'clock that we watch every day, or we watch, I haven't seen it in a month, to stop because they're starting to bother people. That would be best for those people themselves and HDZ. Here's a tip, give it to Plenkovic, if he's smart, he'll take it. On the other hand, it is a shame that the city of Zagreb is not even touched by this budget in this situation. 100 million kuna of 40 billion damage, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing, zero. I have proposed an amendment that would increase this to 400 million kuna to try to start to rebuild it, that the state start rebuilding its facilities, that KBC Zagreb start renewing its facilities, Traum, Petrova, so that schools can start working from the state level, given that Bandic's not even beaten, he has spent everything on his godmothers, and it is embarrassing that there is no Rehabilitation Act, that if he is in the Government, he will not be in the Parliament, and it is shameful that the Government of the Republic still has not stood behind the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Plenkovic's chair is important, the minister's chair but the citizens of the city of Zagreb are unfortunately not important for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205007	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205008	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you spoke in your debate you said that unfortunately despite the government's measures, after all this, one large part of the entrepreneurs will fail. That's unfortunately true and that's what the same attention should be about because now that we're going to open the economy doesn't mean that everything will come back as soon as two months ago, three, unfortunately not, we look at every day that people have less income, that one large part of the people haven't opened up at all because they have higher labour costs than to open up, but you know what they're not going to fail? It won't fail those entrepreneurs leaning on HDZ, e.g. who this company founded three, four months ago. from Istria, which by direct decision of Minister Horvat, received a million-dollar job to obtain masks. She was supposed to get 20 million in government, so when the public got up then under the table they agreed on the job without a public tender and then we see that the nephews of the influential HDZ from Osijek, you won't fail, let's say, and these are the same forms of incentives from this government that should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205009	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative. The answer, I'm sorry, is the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205010	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you are absolutely right, unfortunately HDZ is also using these situations to help with its interesting lobbyes, which are likely to finance the HDZ campaign tomorrow. So not only do they use the crown to put citizens and elections at risk when they think the most answers are selfish, but they use the crown not only them but also their Bandic flock in the city of Zagreb to check out some HDZ builders who raised chimneys at multiple prices, I got this information, to see why and how this situation is used and why there is no law. There is no law so that it can be hunted in a blurry, that citizens earn hundreds and millions of kunas on accidents, and that's the problem of colleagues and colleagues, and that's what we need to talk about here. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic to listen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205011	The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205012	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, here's my colleague Maras, I share your thinking here that we shouldn't have put things under the rug and all these structural problems that the Croatian economy has, unfortunately, now that we're just going to feel these consequences of this crisis that hit us and I agree with you in that part when you mentioned the city of Zagreb, the damage from the earthquakes that exist here but I'm going to fill you up a little bit, and I'm going to say that the great parts of the Krapina-Zagorje County are a special pillaric area, affected by the earthquake, and I also don't see any aid measures in this budget for people who unfortunately lost their fault over their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205013	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205014	There's no help, but unfortunately there's no law. So these HDZ, HNS and Bandic games have already made everyone sick. So now there's going to be some chemistry going on again, like the government law, so he's going to be released for debate, so ask God if he's going to get to Parliament, scary. If it hadn't been for two months. Enough to pass a legal solution? So when HDZ needs campaign money, the election law changes in a week, remember that, Mr. Rainer? Remember when it was raised to enable HDZ Yeah, that's the theme for two months. There is no law on Zagreb and when HDZ needed money for the European elections campaign [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Maras, this is not a topic, we are talking about budget rebalancing.]] Why are you guys after me right now? [[/Intruder Reiner: I am giving you a reminder based on art. 239, because you're not talking about the subject, please talk about the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205015	Thank you very much, we have the next replica of Honored Representative Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205016	Here's colleague Maras, you'll now have a chance to say something and I hope you respond to this replica, thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think I know anything about the economy, colleague Maras, but I heard something about when the crisis is then to be spent, and especially that we need to invest in the state, so now we need strong state investments, and I don't think our generation is going to have this opportunity to make one simple and structurally different view of whether it's state, economy and state finances, and that's this opportunity of double crisis. Is the crisis caused by Covida-19, and on the other hand the crisis which could be an exceptional opportunity for the recovery of the domestic construction sector, industry, etc., which is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and, if I remember correctly, I will not quote, exactly but something about it was said in his own time by one famous macro-economyist John Maynard Kaynes when he said that Let's say for the recovery of the building or industry, we really needed this kind of crisis... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205017	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205018	Well, I absolutely agree with you. So this would be a chance to have a normal situation in the City of Zagreb to help and move on to a certain investment cycle, together Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia and to go through the crisis more easily. They'd hire a branch of industry. The problem is, of course, what is always in Croatia in such a situation is that the dishonest people associated with, for example, HDZ or Milan Bandic's party who are then trying to make extra money, not to work fairly, to earn, but to earn 2-3 times as much as they should. I agree that we must also enter this crisis with additional state spending and public spending, should be very careful with certain pay regulation and in the public sector we should go to reforms, those who work should keep their status, those who do not work should be rerouted to the real sector. So I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President for another replica, no, well, okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205019	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Zekanovic, he is missing, and then the next one will lose the right to speak, of course, and the next individual debate will be representatives of Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the library finally opened on 4 May and a half, many were amazed at how many lines were created in front of the libraries, let's say one of them was a booklet in Zadar, and that's a lot of them, which asked many people how it happened? However, this did not surprise those who are engaged in culture, art, who follow cultural policy in isolation in which we spent a good part of this spring, we survived because of the book, because of the film, because of the poetry and because of the picture and there is no really negative answer to the question whether we need culture and art in crises, it is exhaling and asking, we need culture and art even more. However, in the proposal for amending and supplementing the budget, unfortunately I do not see that the HDZ government and its cultural administration are actually leading to this. So, with this budget rebalance, the budget of the Ministry of Culture is smaller if I have calculated correctly by about 8% and it actually at the end of the term of the HDZ Government seems to be approaching again the 2017 amounts instead of just following what I was saying earlier, and this is a strong public consumption and the need for state intervention of investment in culture and art are increasing by confirming that work in culture and art is important, necessary and valuable. The example for strong public investment in culture is today in some EU countries, as have inspired examples, even nearly 100 years ago. So, for those major depressions, the major economic crisis in the United States when it was defined there as a kind of new transaction and this wide procedure of Roosevelt's then administrations of culture and art made widely available creating conditions for the work of American artists, cultural workers on the one hand, and making culture and art available to the other so as to enable them to participate freely in various cultural and artistic programmes and, in fact, here, for almost 100 years, it does not differ from what is in some way the priority of cultural policy or cultural policies of the EU, which is participation, participation in culture, and in this way, the fight against social exclusion and economic inequality, intolerance and prejudice. Of course, the American administration could have said it, so look, it's not a priority, so change your violins or saxophones or ballet slippers, shovels, hooks or rubber boots and you do agricultural or construction. Fortunately, it wasn't like that, and I think it could be such an inspiration from history for us to learn about. I think that workers and workers in culture and artists and artists certainly expected Minister Obuljen Koržinek and Prime Minister Plenkovic to do both in work, not only in principle and gently as they only know how they trust and respect Croatian artists and their work. I can't even believe that the minister, or that Prime Minister Plenkovic, doesn't want in this crisis and the one that's just followed by Croatian artists filming, pretending to write, dance, produce, and in this way we actually have documented this difficult situation, this disaster that we found ourselves in, that in a few decades or just a few years, we can actually look back and say how we lived in Croatia and survived the crown and finally the earthquake and how we got away with it. I don't have much time today, I have submitted several amendments to the draft of this amending budget, but I would still like to warn that I don't think that I should have cut myself on the means of an operational programme of effective human potential i.e. Social inclusion funds, cultural participation. I do not think the first to hit should have been the means for innovative artistic practices because just such artistic practices can now be expressed in new circumstances when there are still no live performances but are also transmitted through some new digital internet platforms. I also warn again that it is indeed a generational project not only for citizens and citizens of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but also for all Croatia and all artists and artists. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be accepted by the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205021	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205022	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am only interested in the fact that you have beautifully elaborated on how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced funds for culture, are you aware that it has also reduced the cultural resources spent by local self-government units since it has reduced income tax resources, which are actually the source of funding for cultural events at municipal and urban levels. And now one inconsistency, so the Ministry of Issues CRO card or card and hints at attracting domestic tourists and I'm now asking a question, and what are these domestic tourists going to do on that sea, or are they going to sit in their apartment that if they manage to pay with that poor money they've secured on that CRO card system in the first place? Is he just gonna take a bath? Will they be allowed to bathe from communal directors who should separate bathers who are not far enough away from each other? Please explain to me who's going to make it up to everyone if we can't at the local level and in the state they don't actually want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205023	Thank you, esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205024	Yes, colleagues Ahmetović, and you have just warned about what we saw in the city of Zagreb already happened and the city of Zagreb has, in fact, the largest budget for culture, and there it happened that in April, in fact, the mayor of Zagreb, M. Bandić, has completely suspended the payment of funds that are related to public needs in culture, so that in the capital that has the most cultural institutions, and I am sure that both the most workers and workers in the sector, we can now see especially when it comes to independent culture, the consequences of such a destructive policy. And of course we can't expect that the tourist season when you talk about it, and you come from Krk, so it will be successful and that we will attract more tourists in favourable epidemiological conditions than otherwise if the sea and the sun can't offer them what is popularly called a cultural product. So culture in any case is not just a cost, culture represents investment and, of course, it is also a job for many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205025	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Panenic, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he's going to speak to the respected representative Marko Vesligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205026	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is every time we discuss the budget, when we are discussing budget rebalancing, this is the first time actually, at least now I think in this mandate that we are discussing budget rebalancing, in this half-year period we usually had rebalancing at the end of the year, but we are all aware that the circumstances are extraordinary, primarily because of the crown of the virus, but also the second thing of course why we are doing today's budget rebalancing are the upcoming elections. As some of the most important documents that this High House always brings, there are always some budgets, there's always some kind of winners and losers, what we can see first from this I'm going to say to the extraordinary budget is that this time the loser doesn't get too much at least when you scratch a little bit, yet there are, a colleague now mentioned a culture here, I'm going to add that a certain loser is also a sport because it gave up some infrastructure investments that were supposed to go through the State Order for Sports but I'm going to say even understandablely in this situation. Obviously, we are also changing a certain economic paradigm not only here in Croatia but also at EU level, and that deficit is obviously not as old as it was, so when we get into such a situation, then we return to certain postulates from the past that some economists sometimes like to call out of date, that they are anacrons but in these situations, we need them very much. Already a few colleagues have mentioned here on both sides of the assembly this one will say a problem that has local self-government, which by freeing the income tax really lost a lot of its assets and will not be able to compensate them through any unambiguous loans or through any other measures because indicators are as they are, but the situation on the ground where you are some kind of line I will say to the citizens, that citizens first address local self-government is anything but easy. Since there are some very vague instructions that come from the national headquarters, from HZJZ, here I will mention a concrete example of kindergartens that you have a situation that if one parent does not work, then can't have his children in kindergarten, that you have a situation so that those who haven't given children to this week in kindergarten can't now give it 2 i.e., then you have the demands of course parents which is why we now have to pay the kindergarten in this period when we don't give children or can't, we can't give it, of course that local children are expected and certain support to the economy, that we will have to help the citizens and we haven't helped them through these measures of government which I must stress that however the opposition here has supported them with certain proposals that were unfortunately not supported, then I would like to see a little bit more sensitivity for local self-government, for all of all the people who do so much in the civil work, but who do not make it in the same way of the civil service to the public service. I'm going to mention that here's something like this from a local point of view, with a regional little regret about this measure for mountain-mounted space that I see that they stayed at some level despite the fact that we've been looking for a certain increase here, but what makes me even more sad and more convinced that we need one change, that we need a different law on mountain-mountan space when you see one of those funds where for mountain-mounted areas you're giving us the means of setting up squares along the seashore itself, for some monuments in Slavonian plains, for editing office spaces in certain cities or municipalities, that's one bad direction in which we go instead of supporting agriculture, I'm pushing that people to live in those areas we've set up funds on an absolutely non-transparent criteria and political likeness. It's bad and we should stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205027	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205028	I'm interested in you talking about the budgets, the budget and the budget of your unit of local self-government in part. I am interested in what you will finance or co-finance kindergarten, which will be co-financed by the school superstandard, from which you will co-finance or finance scholarships to students, you have given up municipal fees, communal contributions and many other measures you have taken. What we've heard here is that the government hasn't given up the projects, but the government hasn't given up suspicious public procurement because there's money, but money that doesn't go where it's supposed to go. Here, explain to me, colleague, is it possible that no one in this country understands that the government has given up 60% of the income of local self-government units, not its own income, is it possible that these revenues are what our parents count on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205029	Thank you. Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205030	Thank you very much. So here, when we discussed measures here, then I said that these measures that the government represents which of its own that it should nevertheless present them as, at least partly as measures of local self-government, given how direct the losses are due to the primarily tax-relieving income were units of local self-government. Look, this year, we're gonna hold out, we've got this loan, and we're probably gonna be able to finance it. My only question is, then, what's waiting for us in 2021, people are used to a certain standard that I'm going to say to smaller environments much less than it is in big cities. However, if we are not able to provide adequate accommodation for children in kindergartens, unless we provide some education in elementary schools, arranged homes of health, I wonder how many people we will be left with in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205031	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205032	I thank the esteemed Vice President. So, Ministers, I want to talk about the proposed rebalancing through positive things, through those I consider negative and ultimately in the light of the elections being announced. So, what is positive, and I particularly welcome is the fact that there are still other means to continue building fast roads that is 160 million kuna for 5 km from Farkaševec towards Bjelovar and 325 million kuna 7.5 km from Križevci to, according to Koprivnica, where public procurement must be opened at the beginning of the 6th month. I also welcome the fact that this budget has found a solution to help the economy that has covered the salaries of employees in those entities who have suffered the economic effect in this crisis in 3rd, 4th and 5 months, and that is what I find positive. What I want to point out to you is that about this help to the economy that has been assessed about 8 billion kunas that you have actually managed to move it, to settle the redistribution within the budget itself, and then I don't like the way you've done it, we don't know how you've been communicating with other ministries, but you have a situation that, let's say, Croatian roads on their 3 billion kuna budget have reduced their budget by only 202 million kuna while, say, one very important segment, and that's the Central State Sport Office, which had really miserable 16 million kunas for the construction of sports infrastructure and 14 million for local sport and the project Croatia swims without that 30 million. So, did it really take one project that was already in the selection phase to which 400 clubs applied, 400 small sports communities to the full? I think you made a mistake here and you had to do a checkup so let's see if the roads on the islands were cut by 812 by just 10 million kuna. So you took all the sport instead of taking the roads to the islands instead of 10, 40 million kuna. Just to see what's important is how much we like to present ourselves through sports in Europe and the world, how much politics and politics are full of sports from national stadiums to I don't know what kind of investments, and you don't even have negotiated funding of such objects from the EU, and neither from the national budget and at this time the crowns when children are on computer classes, when they're too much for computers you've managed to leave them without those basic material conditions, and I believe you're aware that they're objects that were made in the '50s, same after the war, same when there was no money and when there was a crisis. What I consider to be the greatest minus of this proposed rebalancing is the fact that you do not project in it, nor do you foresee potential aid for the economy by 6th, 7th, 8th or 9th, 10th, 11th month when the possibility of returning the crown is mentioned, but also the embarrassing amount of 100 million kuna for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, so much for the reduction of income tax at the monthly level and here is shown one contempt for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. You see here there were broken chandeliers, chimneys in the government and the assembly, and it wasn't waiting, but it got rid of it right away, and all these people in the city center, in the area, waiting for their chance to rebuild, you gave them 100 million and you didn't tell them if this is a rebalancing for this year that you're going to give them anything more and we still see that there's not even in the procedure of the Law on the City of Zagreb. I believe that this is a budget called the fog with which no elections are allowed, that the key basis for future elections should be precisely the key objectives of the 2021 budget to see if there will be a reduction in expenditure or if you will continue to hold the expenditure, whether you will be in debt and whether you will again as in previous crises equalise all tax, single VAT rate or even raise VAT in order to settle expenditures or that you may be able to repay loans if you maintain this level of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205033	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205034	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lacković mentioned the sport, in fact you prepared it in context or compared it with the revenues of Croatian roads. So, actually with the reduction on Croatian roads where you said it was only almost 7%, these are the revenues that they count to have less on different grounds, so they did not deny anything.../incomprehensible/... as well as Croatian highways and other extra- budget users will have slightly less income on a different basis. And as for sports, I've repeatedly stressed here that we should use this now to change things structurally. It's not just about infrastructure, the thing and the cost of keeping it, it's about how they finance sports that primarily run units of local self-government, and we have to turn to people, to children, and put it as a basis for funding each sport. Working with children and how many children are involved in sports, not how the senior team works or whether someone.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205035	Thank you. Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205036	So, thanks for the replica, I agree with you that the question of sports and sports infrastructure is very important. The fact that they had a slightly reduced income was not a reason not to complete the competition, a project that was called upon to register 400 small clubs that wanted to paint their locker rooms, which wanted to buy aluminum goals so that no one would get hurt, who wanted to improve their capacities, people invested in the funds they hoped for something and now came the crown and said no more. So that's how we can really see how long then the redistribution space is going to be, so we've spent, if we took that, then we've taken the last funds that we can redistribute. So I'm asking the question, well, where are we going to keep 147 million kunas of expenditure, we're going to re-indebt, and if we're going to borrow that revenue if we don't raise taxes, if we don't go over to the real sector, what are we going to pay back from?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205037	The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205038	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, I'm very glad that you mentioned sports, since I also said in my debate that it's very strange that it's not in this draft budget and that it actually gave up some of the investments for sports that are extremely important in small areas, you have to realize that there's a playground in the smaller environment that means a lot more than it does in some big city center. I also think it's an opportunity for one reboot to us in this area, and we're not about infrastructure, but also about one expert staff that I think we should have at all levels. So this is not a good one and it's not one nice message that's being sent primarily to young people they're the biggest users of these kind of sports fields, sports content team more than that if we look at the government a little bit of these infrastructure other projects, they haven't given up much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205039	Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205040	So the message that was sent is clear, so we took the most sensitive ones and then what can we expect in the budget proposal for 2021. It is reportedly needed by the new majority, the new government should bring, and the government should, on the basis of the number of patients in Brač, so that is the issue of Brač. So, we can't go with the local themes and the cores of the virus, into an election cycle where citizens should know whether the real sector is going to pay back the cost of this crisis, what is going to happen to the economies that haven't fired for three months now, now they're going to fire, how many people are going to be, what are the projects and projections, where are you going to be in debt and how you're going to approach a serious problem? These are election questions, not questions, whether we are defending ourselves from the crown or not, and what relationship we are with Sweden or Denmark. This is a key question, so who will bear the burden of the crisis? And that's the main issue of future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205041	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205042	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm just going to take a quick look at the extra budget users, namely when we move HZO where we took them and secured a special loan of 2 billion kuna, and we know that we freed people from paying contributions then we get some balance of 400 million kuna for all the others less. Taking into account that Croatian waters plan to cut revenue of 900 million kuna, they also cut expenditures by 235 with something that needed 140 million kunas have gone to 500 almost 530 million kunas of loss. And then there's more or less of it left around here somewhere. Let's just say HAC plans to cut the income of 770 million, and parallelly means 1 in 2 or 50 lips per kuna goes and cut the expenditure, so even less than 320 million, which goes directly to the loss planned by 450 million kuna. And now I'm wondering that 320 million kuna that's going to cut costs, that's most likely non-preservation because everything else that way has to work. You've got people working on a checkout house, either 100 or 10,000 vehicles, fewer of which, of course, may not have been so much, but some base cost remains. And then we come up with that question that we need investment, that we need that stopper, that we need it not to stop and not to maintain it, don't stop and hire subcontractors because they certainly don't do it on their own, but they also have certain competitions that they're contracting to get jobs right now and to finance it from exactly what we've made possible, new borrowings. And that's something that's actually done the opposite of what the state has done. So the state remained at the level of the same expenditure so that it wouldn't generate indifference as well as to generate a certain offer with both this and demand, here they out-of- budgeted themselves and maybe this was the same opportunity, so when we talk about HAC, that a new way of managing and new way of charging, what we've been saying all along, uncontactively and vignettes, etc., etc. Now it's an opportunity, maybe we're already late, but now maybe it was an opportunity to restructure a lot of things. And what I was going to say, which is a lot of times mentioned by the Earthquake Recovery Act, which is why I also submitted one amendment to better fix it, nomotechnically, nothing dramatic, so that the position that is now new to this rebalancing that is opening, which was a damage recovery, is actually to leave it the way it is, to be the position of rebuilding buildings and recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake, which remains 100 million to be used from that position for all the funding that will be covered by the special law that we have talked about today, by the World Bank loans, by using the Solidarity Fund so that we can and the redistribution of the law are already using the same position and having our share in financing and using these funds. So there is no confusion that this position is precisely the one that will be restored and used and paid for everything that is necessary. We can't talk by heart now until we have the law, but we can have a position, we can call it that, and I think it's just clear and loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205043	Thank you, we have two replicas, so you're too late. He is the first respected representative of Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205044	So, fellow question for you, do you think 100 million kunas are foreseen for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb due to the earthquake, is that serious money? If you think he's serious, then please explain how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205045	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205046	I can ask you the question, do you think of a family who has lost their incomes, that 10,000 kuna is serious money? Maybe not to you, it's a lot of serious money to them, or 20,000 kuna. One family to make a normal life possible, that's a huge amount of money. Is that money for all the damage we've suffered, so it's nothing, but when we look through one family, and these are the funds, I just said, so I went with the amendment, to leave the budget to be 10,000 kuna item on the budget, but the law to arrange that we have an item, that we can act immediately after the law is passed, and this 100 million is precisely for these families to allow them to get rid of the chimneys, to allow them how much they are so much that tomorrow when we go to co-finance the costs and designing those damaged buildings, we also have a budget item that we can tie up all the payments. So we always have to look through the prism of one man, and there are 1,000 kunas today very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205047	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. ... You used a colleague of yours, Pernar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205048	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to pick up where I left off with the replica, so a few more facts about health care that are very important to me, and in this budget rebalancing, you probably haven't been able to deal with them enough. Therefore, after this crown of crisis, our health workers who have done a great job, we can all agree, waiting for a very difficult time because a return to regular activity will be a meeting with the biggest debt in the history of health care of the Republic of Croatia. Before the crisis, the total debt was more than 9 billion kuna, the liabilities of 4.3 billion, are now certainly closer to 5 than they are to 4, and given the increased work due to the never-long waiting lists that have been extended in the meantime, the health care is waiting for additional costs and if no concrete steps are taken by Mr. Minister, the health care will certainly be ahead of the collapse in the case of a new epidemic wave which, fortunately, has avoided us in this first wave, however. The direct costs of the health system caused by the current COVID epidemic 19 are now slightly more than 100 million kuna. So these are HZZ data, including costs of testing, hospital treatment and self-insulation disease. So this 2 months. It is an additional 100 million kuna cost of the health system. The new additional cost will come safely if I adopt a legitimate epidemiologist's proposal, that all who are going to go to surgery or search for hospital stay must be tested at COVID 19. According to HZZO data, there are about 700,000 hospitals in Croatia annually. So now add to that the cost of testing and all the additional diagnostic tests that all those who will come to the hospital and have to be COVID negative, so this cost has never been calculated anywhere, never existed before and will be an additional burden to our health system. So for the next eight months. We need to have increased work of the hospital system that has to compensate for everything that's been missed in this 2 months. and it's been missed, Mr. Minister, a lot. So, 40% less examinations were done, so HZZO says it's in this 2 months. a million 711 234 proceedings are carried out less. So we must be aware that this delay will certainly further increase mortality probably from malignancies if not some others. Here's an example of a pulse hospital, it has to make up for 13,000 hits. So the necessary material will be spent, healthcare professionals will work overtime not only in Pula during all of Croatia, and I hope that this will finally start to pay them. Therefore, these are all additional costs and at the same time the health budget is understandable, expected, due to the problem of the economy, is not being charged according to the plan, and it is expected to be more than 2 billion kunas less on the HZZO's income side and will not achieve the planned budget of 27.5 billion kuna, which means that this will further prevent the repayment of debt that is not calculated anywhere. In February, therefore, Minister Beros said that the total debt of health care had reached 9.4 billion kuna, out of which the debt of hospital health was 4.3 billion kuna. Hospitals were making 145 million kunas of new debt a month, for the next 8 months. That amount will be even bigger, just for these reasons that I listed. But none of it has any figures and no letters in this rebalancing, so please, since we or some other parliament will probably have a new rebalancing soon, to finally try to use this crisis, I will say that for the reboot of the health system. So that the health system starts working on different principles, that hospitals are financed differently and that we provide a financially sustainable health system. If you did not pay attention to the health system, it best shows the following example. The Parliament recently adopted amendments to the Law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which said that 200,000 new insurance companies will need an additional 160 million kuna in 2020, which would mean for the remaining 8 months, 93 million kuna, nowhere in the plan of income and expenditure of HZZO where the figures remain the same as before this law. So either it's a pre-election story or you forgot that you had to enter it into the HZZO fund those additional funds that the state would have to pay HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205049	We've got a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205050	Thank you. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I am pleased that you mentioned this question, so during the parliamentary debate, we warned that it was just a pre-election law, a voluntary health insurance law, in which the claims on 200,000 citizens and 160 or 170 000 kuna were put on the table. HSU then had a good bill that would cover, which would significantly increase censorships and probably cover most of the citizens but on a realistic basis and therefore would be sufficient. What was astounding in that debate was the minister or secretary of state here said that he had the oral promise of Minister Maric, beware of the oral promise that he would find the money, however, as you now see no money. It is an unserious preparation of the law, unserious behaviour towards the Croatian Parliament, towards Croatian citizens and, therefore, as we now see, there is no money and it was just a pre-election trick to convince people that their situation will be better and it is the poorest layer of Croatian citizens and pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205051	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205052	Thank you very much, yes, colleague Sagar, that unfortunately shows indifference. I even believe that Minister Maric was not even aware that the law was passed, that changes were made and that it should have been introduced but was needed by someone from the Ministry of Health to report it. Therefore, now to ignore this part of the problem not even for the part that they wanted to show through this pre-election story did not provide funds in the budget, which is only an additional debt that will have health care because the state does not now meet its obligations to the Ministry of Health, based on the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, where every year they pay about a billion kuna less than they should and equally, one other resort that also covers the needs of health care, the health needs of the protégé, the social resor, did not provide funds for increasing the salaries of nurses and the purchase of protective equipment in retirement homes which are particularly risky and should be further prepared for the next wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205053	The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205054	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for amending and supplementing the national budget for 2020 provides for a reduction of expenditure for police employees and for other expenditure on employees and a reduction of EUR 65 million. In a situation where these employees, police employees and, of course, healthcare professionals, along with civil protection and firemen, have exposed their health and life to defend and preserve the health and life of 4 million inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to break the consequences of its inability to maintain such stability of the Croatian economy. Until yesterday, the government boasted of an unprecedented budget surplus, misleading the public with incorrect projections of GDP growth because it was counting on elections in the fall and it was worth starting with an optimistic story to actually justify its successful mandate by autumn. But the corona came to the government as an order to justify everything she had deceived the public with that very crown. I remember, Minister of the Horvat Economy very knowingly in a live show, he manipulated that the requirements for wage reduction and expenditure in the public sector meant and the reduction of wages, and, behold, the miracles, the police, the fire department and health workers, and he asked rhetorically whether it meant that we should reduce their rights by putting ourselves in the role of the great protector of the rights most responsible for the defence of health and life in this corona crisis. As an economist, I have not heard a relevant talker who has advocated a reduction in the rights of healthcare, police and emergency services, but I have heard that the total mass of salaries generated in any agencies that are themselves or just that mass of mercenaries or subscribers I would say, the purpose. From manipulation to execution, according to the government's prescription to the execution of the existence of those whom Minister Horvat manipulatively singled out to differentiate political insinuators. But let's get back to the budget rebalance. With this rebalancing, the government proposes to reduce the expenditure on police employees of 65 million kuna, and this applies to the material rights of employees, jubilee awards, goddesses, gifts to children and regressions, and I could support that reduction and even if I didn't know how much the average salary of a police employee who is exactly the one from the beginning of my first line of defense, not only in this situation of the health crisis but every day, for 4500 kuna a month that policeman risks his life and his health, at the daily level suffers the threat of not only physical but also mental health even when there is no such sinister pandemic. Then when most of us don't suffer from anything, that cop's terrified that we wouldn't have to worry and earn a salary of $4,500. Any addition to that salary to it is a fire in which you will-not, people with that level of income are found every month and are now left without it. We all know Croatia here, there are chronic lack of police officers. And despite the lower criteria for hiring these cops, does anyone think it's normal to agree to this kind of crying, 4500 kuna, wearing a head in a bag every day? You call for the solidarity of the whole society, so not the solidarity of those who do not have but those who have or have too much. Those who don't have, have nothing to solidarity with. By reducing the material rights of police officers, the few police officers who still stand on the defender of the country's security regardless of the crown or without it will not stand for long. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia police officers are not needed but are some others, it is essential that an employee in the administration of a regional fire department financed from the state budget. It takes so much to be paid out of public funds by the university and there are essential employees but they are not police officers. An essential employee, ladies and gentlemen, is, say, the chief advisor to HERA. The basic gross salary of that advisor, listen, 26 500 and he is so essential that despite meeting the conditions for retirement, he will not retire yet but will continue to work at HERA. And there are a number of other essential employees who unfortunately collect their loyalty to one foreigner, the money of all taxpayers, the essence of this rebalancing which is nothing more than stroking our eyes to all of us, cutting off those who really work and leaving or deepening the syncure to those who have been squeaming us for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205055	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205056	Thank you very much. So, fellow Ahmetovic, you were talking about a completely reckless reduction in the salaries of police officers, and I have to rely on that because when we have all realized that the oldest in the case of the COVID 19 epidemic, nothing is done to protect themselves and that in this budget, funds are already being put in place to ensure better protection so that 1800 nurses working in retirement homes have insufficient protective equipment, one sister comes to 89 wards with mental impairment, employers are taking away their vacation days, homes are without computers, sister lists are being held manually and no funds in the ministry. Bedekovic is not expected to, however, avoids responsibility because the chamber has asked her for an urgent suspension in the payment of nurses' salaries, employed in nursing homes. So another example of how this government doesn't recognize the right priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205057	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205058	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I would just point out and add to what you said and the fact, I was hoping to find in the budget the increase in salaries to police officers when the material rights had already expired, but I didn't find them even though the officers were hoping for a 1% increase since 1 June, and they were hoping for an increase of 2% since 1 January 2021, we're talking about the ESS, and they were hoping for a 3% increase in the 3% of the 1st of September for the VSS and we understand each other, and that's nothing compared to the absolute amount of this percentage is nothing, given how small these wages are. However, no, they will be left without it, but even without what it means to them, this is the kind of patching up of their poor budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205059	The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, I am very pleased that you have actually mentioned how miserable this salary is in this case of a police officer or a police officer, so it is some 600 euros because in public space very often it is said that our public and state officials are etc. Prepaid, that there are too many of them, that they don't do their job well herl. And then where it goes to cut, it goes to cut first, so on these public needs let's say so. I think it is extremely important to point out constantly how important it is to maintain a certain level of wages and material rights in the public and state sectors, why? Because if we're going to strip down to the end of a really strong anti-corruption element, how important it is that judicial employees, that cops, cops, get paid well, it's certain that corruption has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205061	The answer of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205062	Thank you very much. counterpart Leakovic, yes, I agree, may need to reduce the amount of salaries in the public sector, but the amount of salaries that were made to the agencies only to be set up, to the state institutions that were founded only to form, the people who have from the secretary of the secretaries of the secretaries. These masses of wages are the ones to be cut and not the masses of wages or salaries of those who have the lowest wages and their safety, their health, their life most exposed to this country in order to preserve the lives of those and the health of those who do not care about the health of those who safeguard that health, if you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205063	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205064	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, you mentioned police officers and police officers, I join your warning there, and I would like to add to this situation where we see Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers in the Government, Maric and Minister of Labour, trying to force teachers, teachers, as well as to reduce their wages, given that as well as the lack of full work and the crisis had ruled and were not at the disposition and I know that teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers in schools are working now and more. Here today, two, three kids in class are in class, and then when they come home, they work with the other kids online. So it would be a great injustice to cut off those personnel that have been paid for years now that they've finally got certain rights, now they're using the crown to take it back, we can't let that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205065	Thank you. Dear representative, nothing. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205066	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, it is good that you have mentioned that it is unacceptable to reduce salaries and the rights of employees of the MUP or police because we have repeatedly debated and asked that they have higher salaries, that they have better equipment and that they have more rights and are not only a problem of wages but also material compensation for their other rights, for example, a large number of police officers from Slavonia are working in Dalmatia and with such a small salary they cannot afford to pay for either the apartment or the accommodation or the food, and many are therefore giving up and leaving the police, and it is unacceptable to reduce their wages when we talk about the need to invest in this system. And secondly, you were talking about agencies and that some should be abolished, so here, this government has abolished about 20 agencies under the parole of savings, the selection service has been abolished, the Croatian Agricultural Agency has been merged with the Ministry of Agriculture, we haven't seen these savings, and on the other hand I have information that these employees have also been paid an increase, so one is abolished, others are still paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205067	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205068	Thank you very much. A colleague, so I would like to demystify the amount of these material rights, these jubilee awards, these Christmases or similar let's say firefighting measures that people survive that month for which they actually did. So these are the miserable amounts with which the government will save absolutely nothing. What's the fact that these people consider themselves and call each other public arrests just because they wear an official uniform and no one thinks about how these official uniforms actually force them to be on the road, force them to be happy with such a small salary that they work on Sundays or nights that some fund makes hours thicker and some kind of salary such a decent profit they haven't been able to feed their children, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205069	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205070	Dear chairmans, they say the crisis has come, say we must all bear part of the burden and that we should all bear some kind of sacrifice. I know that many owners of space didn't charge, say, a full rent or the same thing with landlords. I know that certain duties have been reduced or suspended, but there is one category in society, one sacred cow that gives up nothing. These sacred cows are private banks that even the conditions of the moratorium continue to account for the loans of their debtors. Of course, it should be noted that certain groups do not even have the right to moratorium, such as those of tourists who travel to Plitvices from e.g. China, they have buses, they're banned from working, their tourists don't have, but the rates of lying come on the charge no matter what. And what happens in the end? Finally, we have a situation where debt is growing exponentially, that banks have actually profited most in this situation and, of course, they will be able to buy property and citizens and shares, etc., which has now dropped value due to all of this and the question is, who is actually the holder of government in the country if everyone has to give up and one category, banks have to give up nothing, the question is, are banks owners of Croatia or better said, real persons who have a position of power and power? My guess and the thesis is that they are, it's my thesis that they are above the state because as I said, what they are allowed to do, what they can do, nobody else can do, and nobody complains about it, did they see the media? The same media that crucify this government, the same media that crucifies all possible people and non-humans in this country, banks that don't want to give up interest, don't mention. Why? Why is it allowed to spit on Marić, on Šuker, on me, on Maras, Boric, Lackovic and every other person in this country, but there are no media spit banks even though they do what complete society normally does and what they shouldn't do in the normal state. Now I'll tell you why, because the banks are media owners, the same hand rules everyone. Someone's going to tell Mr. Pernar that some media isn't the owner of a bank, it's true that it isn't, but the owner of that media depends on these banks. I remember once there was a contribution to an act, we were in the field, a journalist told a private television station, Ivan, we can't tell which bank it was because we're in charge of them right now, so it would be awkward. The same thing with the state, the state raises billions of moons of credit with these same banks as embarrassing to talk against them, yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how banks are through lending and here you have Ninoslav Pavic, so-called. The EPH holding as much as they owed this man and indirectly controlled the contents of the Morning List, etc., because the Jutarnji List went against the banks, the question is would the banks say that, yes, Nino can take you and the 10th mortgage on them 9 of them on the building in Odranska. I'm trying to point out to you, dear citizens, and it's up to you to trust me or not to trust me. You can trust those journalists and editors and the media who claim to be free and independent, if they weren't bribed, if they weren't under the rule of the banks or the state or whoever, and you can trust me as well, who I'm saying that the media is generally, under great influence, dared to say, the crucial influence of both banks and states or that the vast majority of the media in Croatia is not independent and objective. So let's just remember the famous Hanžekovic Mason who was always ironing over me through the Jutarnji list, although now he is no longer alive but the Jutarnji List continues in the same direction as Mr. esteemed favorite of the people, whom the President calls a great humanist and philanthropist, where he left off. Well, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205071	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be respected representatives of Glasovac, not having it, losing his right and the next one being spoken by respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205072	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here at the end of this debate we are all aware that this proposal is a change and a complement to the budget of the rebalancing relationship, in a certain way the consequences of the crisis caused by COVID 19 and all those measures and financial effects that we have behind us and that this has to be reflected in the budget, is an emphasis of course on the preservation of health, on the care of all our citizens, and there is another great congratulation for all public health workers, in hospitals, in all other institutions that have made their contribution but also a great thank to the citizens who have been responsible and stayed at home so we have good results. What worries me and us at HSS is that this second measure, which is the preservation of jobs, has certain shortcomings, and we think, above all, and I've already spoken to 30 thousand people who have lost their jobs in the meantime. There was a proposal to find an emergency model and a way to help them, we don't see it here in the budget rebalancing and I said already in the replica of the minister, the problem of seasonal labour from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema which will surely remain jobless in the coming months, because tourism obviously won't be and the minister has promised to find some model for them too, but here, in this rebalancing is gone. What's visible here is that the real question is what to invest in, what industries to invest in and how to invest in tomorrow because, of course, it's important for us to have every job but we need to determine strategically towards those industries, those branches that will employ as many people as possible and where people will have a large and quality job and quality personal income to live on from it. It is not good that 500 million kuna for the public sector has not been provided, although it is signed, so it is a bad message and keeping jobs in Croatia especially if we want an educated workforce then it is not possible to reduce their rights and personal incomes for the people who are the bearers of that, that quality workforce and quality education staff tomorrow. In Europe, we are talking about a green plan, about green measures, Mr. Timmermans emphasizes that forestry and the diagonal industry should be a future priority, from this rebalancing, we do not see that something more significant is being supported by the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia which employs over 50,000 people and who first felt the crisis caused by the coronary virus because most of them are exporters and we are asking that in the coming measures certainly this branch of the wood industry more specifically which processes wood mass into quality furniture and other products. What's not good is that the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection lost this rebalance with 432 million kuna. And these are mainly the funds that needed our home construction operation to provide water supply, water treatment, wastewater purification, waste disposal, and this gives us a picture and a message that we will continue to have a problem with waste disposal as last night was in Davor municipality where the dump was set on fire and I have repeatedly written Minister Coric's response to what is being brought there, what amounts, in which way he is being taken care of, we see that he is inadequately taking care of it and that he has been fuelled and loaded for the environment there and for drinking water for 60,000 people there and we are looking for answers and we are looking for answers and we are looking for the responsibility both of the minister and the mayor of the municipality. Of course, in my debate on agriculture, which only 0.6% received more funding here, the minister boasts on the ministry's pages with an additional 120 million kuna for direct payments and with amended rules that up to 70% may be paid up in advance by November and the rest to 100% will be secured in the state budget. These 20% to 30% which should be secured in the state budget are not even in this rebalancing, were neither in the 2020 budget nor in the budgets 2 or 3 years ago. Our agriculture is thus damaged by over 2.5 billion and with the right of the Association of Agricultural Producers is looking for and the peasant alliance of the new Agricultural Development Fund if we want to produce food then we have to invest in the village and agriculture and it is unacceptable that we now have about 2500 pigs of the breeders that our producers cannot sell, that the florists are in failure because they cannot sell flowers, that the winemakers have not sold any buttocks of wine, and that the minister is not saying anything about it, and that we are not talking about agricultural land because in 4 years she has not even 50 ha put into office through a public tender and there is no interpretation of the ban on the sale of land to foreigners even though she promised that it was a done thing, so I ask the ministers., what do you do or just take pictures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205073	Thank you very much. Now we have final words on behalf of the club of representatives, first of all that MOST and independent lists on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205074	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who have an interest in following this, Minister. This rebalancing i.e. This corona crisis is repeating it for I don't know which time, nakeded all the bad policies in the Republic so when we look at this rebalancing, it's essentially showing again that we don't care about those who are most responsible not only for this crisis itself but who care about health, who care about our children in schools, but as a Parliament, we didn't have the strength to make one decision, that is. The government, as a representative of the Government, did not have to bring a key and first measure and this measure should have meant moratorium on loans and interest banks, so that this effect of this rebalancing on our citizens will have nothing but a negative effect, as colleagues had just before and listed, from agriculture, from Croatian police officers, from all of those, from medical staff, all those who should have felt better in this crisis, who had to as well as the entire Croatian people who had to from the banks i.e. you had to have the courage to propose as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance, have the courage to defend this Parliament, that the moratorium on loans and interest because we know that the banks are the most polluted in the Republic of Croatia, that the people have invested most in these banks without going in, they go back far back into recapitalisation, but we know that the ministers, the banks have a profit of 4 billion kuna per year only on fees and fees that we have, 400 and more at these small amounts, but there is a huge amount of money. So this rebalancing isn't essentially revealing everything, not just about the crisis, but what's crucial for our citizens is that in this crown the crisis is essentially about this, because it's visible after Mr. Capak's statement yesterday that we can only go to the elections that we're in isolation and that we should have tracked our cell phones that simply this impact of closing the economy, the closure means tourism that is literally going to be in big trouble, the small tenants in big problems, the big one, all of which is going to be at this moment in huge trouble that simply this rebalance isn't helping those who needed help. Local self-government is mentioned, yes, local self-government has huge counties. Countys are the main brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia and I argue that no rebalancing, not a single budget on it counts, and basically a large part of the decentralised funds of the ministry, goes through, goes essentially for health care, education in the county, and that money goes who knows where to go because it goes where it needs to go, then we would have well-developed health care today, mainly in rural areas, but we have less and less health services and people are leaving us. One of the key problems that has been mentioned is the World Bank report, which says that the most people who receive money from, who have a large share of GDP from foreign transfers that our people who have moved out, send to their families and family members, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has 20% of GDP, the colleague is funny but it is the fact that our citizens have been evicted and that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And at this point, the World Bank says that 20% will be reduced funds from these figures, however, as far as Croatia is concerned, we are in the most risky group because we have 18 billion kunas a year from those people we have emigrated to poor policies. I asked the minister here and I expect him to answer me what with these people who have lost their jobs in Ireland and how much he expects a lack of money from the credits at the level of the budget, the effects, he can't, of course, he said himself, but the effects will be devastating. And we don't think about those people that we moved out and who came back, I don't know if they have any rights or any measure of direction towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205075	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will finally speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205076	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister Maric, at the end of this debate, I would like once again to highlight some of the most important proposals in front of the party Let's change Croatia. The word rebalancing means establishing a new balance. The expenditures remain the same, the kuna is not reduced, the revenues have fallen dramatically and will unfortunately fall even more, to establish this new balance, it's a huge minus, here says 25 billion kuna, so you have to be in debt. Could you make savings or cut expenses on some things? Yes, it is. I said in the morning that in these four years you could have saved 15 billion kunas that you had refinanced all debts, the kuna debts of the state, you didn't. I asked the IRS for information, asked how many taxes you have not charged in Croatia. They've answered 28 billion kuna. Dear citizens, if only 50% of them had succeeded, insisted, they had charged 28 billion kuna, that is 14 billion kuna tax. Add these 15 I said savings, that's 29 billion kuna, so my people, we'd have extra money from what it takes from 4 billion. These are the people who run this Croatia, but they taught themselves one thing, it doesn't matter what the deficit is, but we know how to put you in good debt. So you don't care about such arguments. Next, Mr. Minister, at 7pm. Comes, comes the euro bond of a billion and 250 million dollars. You're already negotiating how you're gonna take a new loan in dollars. So come on, man, pay it off from the foreign reserve already. We have a net foreign reserve of 15.5 billion euros, which is one of the largest foreign exchange relations compared to GDP in the EU, so don't lend us the end of our money, we keep our dollars, euro outside at 0% or 0.1, and then boast when you put us in debt for 0.75%, that it's a historic success. Well, that's terrible. Pay it off from foreign exchange reserves, please listen to what I'm proposing, so have strength, that's our money, so it's not Austrian and German, it's Croatian citizens' money, you have it, do it, I ask you. Furthermore, the return of the money that the debt agencies received because they sought minimum wage for their workers, one of the most famous debt enforcement agencies, was founded in 2013 for 500 000 kuna and today has retained profits of more than 400 million kuna. Does he tell you what that information is? That they systematically robbed Croatian citizens. You're looking for a return to the state budget tomorrow. You're looking for a return from casinos, bookies and all those who have a fat profit in recent years. There must be social justice in this country. And in the end, don't get into the euro area anymore, into the euro, why are you kicking? Well, you see, the public debt is going to break through almost 90%, no country where I was, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, not to speak Denmark, Sweden, but not to their minds. So who are you trying to show that we're in good shape, that we can take over the euro? Well, the euro zone has never been in a bigger crisis since 2008 than it is now, and it's even more of a problem. Let's stop, let's be wise, let's wait. Why do you hate our kuna, first of all, those who run the CNB, why do you hate our Kuna? Well, my people, now you have your own currency and your own central bank, so it's a blessing, let's use it. Therefore, suspend payments to II. Retire the pension column and that 500 million each month to save the economy. Look, I don't have enough time, concrete suggestions. And nothing and listen to this, stop paying off 87 million kuna support subsidies to members of voluntary pension funds. Why are you stimulating them now? Well, they have money anyway, it's not mandatory. Now I could put another hundred million together here. Dear citizens, I will stand here, the elections are at the door, only professional and honest people can save these countries with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205077	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, the first item will be the Final Proposal for the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. Have a nice evening. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours And now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. The amendment complements the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022 are also submitted, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans for non-profit users for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 years for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, the Centre for restructuring and sales, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO, Croatian Highways, the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi, MP Karolina Leaković, SDP representative club, MP Mirela Ahmetović, Sabina Glasovac, Karolina Leaković, representative Željko Lacković, representative Gordan Maras, representative of Stjepan Curaj. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, and I would ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the amendments submitted. This is Assistant Minister of Finance, Honored Representative Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205080	The first amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras. ... It's not common, but here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205081	No, I'm interested in Mr. Vice President, is it possible, Mr. Bukarica, that this is one logical question, that I have the right to hear the answer, so is it possible that only Mr. Zrinasic, on behalf of all ministries, will be shown about the amendments? So it's not a practice, the state budget is usually attended by representatives of the ministries and not by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. So, I would ask you to make sure that this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the representatives of the ministries are not indicated for the proposed amendments. I think it would be correct if we had representatives of the ministries here, not representatives of one ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205082	This is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure because the government is manifested, so no individual ministers, deputy ministers etc., the government is manifested because the government is proposing a state budget and the government is pointing to this rather than individuals. So, of course, the government determines representatives or representatives, but the government is manifested because the government has tabled a proposal for amending and supplementing the budget. Here, let me explain when you don't know what it says in the Rules of Procedure. The first amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205083	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction is not accepted because the activities of the Croatian Parliament are managed by the administration, the expenditure group 323, expenditure on services are provided with funds for the settlement of known commitments and for the planned renewal of the work of the Croatian Parliament building due to the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205084	The applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205085	Thank you very much. I do not accept this argument here because these funds have already been reduced compared to what was planned at the beginning of the year and I think that the Croatian Parliament, as a follower of institutions that led the Republic of Croatia in difficult times when we defeated fascism in these areas, should provide a certain amount of money within its budget to be valued. We see that in the Croatian Parliament we also have the essence of the first president of ZAVNOH Vladimir Nazor, the famous and recognized Croatian poet and anti-fascist, and it is amazing that the Croatian Government ignores and ignores the facts of the Croatian Parliament and that it is precisely organisations that insist on promoting these values that do not help or finance their activities from the budget at all. It is something that is inadmissible to me, I think that the Croatian Parliament as an institution that should be there, perhaps most interested, given that it represents directly Croatian citizens elected through MPs elected in parliamentary elections must be placed and in some way protect the activities and work of the Union of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of Croatia, and that is, in my opinion, something that has not been the case so far, which we have not heard about and I am sorry because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing exactly the opposite and does not give them any support. On this side, I would like to point out once again and ask that this amendment be voted upon and that ultimately the representatives of the Croatian Parliament support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205086	Thank you. The next amendment of MP Gordan Maras, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205087	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state authorities and local, regional (regional) self-government, means of subsisting the costs for the implementation of the state and advisory referendum shall be settled from the state budget while the funds for the implementation of the local referendum, as proposed here, shall be provided in the budget of the units of local self-government and the units of the regional (regional) self-government in which the local referendum is implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205088	The bearer, the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205089	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for this amendment and what I would like to do with this amendment, is to ensure that the funds are implemented in the city of Zagreb for an advisory referendum on the mistrust of the mayor of Zagreb for the city's leadership. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia makes it impossible. The HDZ, or Prime Minister A. Plenkovic, is obviously behind M. Bandic together with V. Beros makes a firm axis of Bandic-Beroš-Plenkovic who has done nothing in Zagreb in the last 60 days. It did not allow the citizens of Zagreb to live a normal and decent life. I want the citizens of Zagreb to have the opportunity to say about Bandic in a referendum, an advisory referendum on what they think. It is saddened that colleagues and colleagues, that HDZ thus protects criminal management of the city. The citizens of the city of Zagreb must be aware that every vote in the future parliamentary elections for HDZ, the vote for M. Bandic, because if HDZ remains in place, M. Bandic can sleep peacefully. And on this side, colleagues and colleagues, I want the funds to be secured, I want the citizens of the city of Zagreb to collect their signatures in the next month and a half for the opening of the advisory referendum, and finally, at the advisory local referendum, to say what they think about Bandic and HDZ that protects him, and that is why I propose that this amendment be adopted and that we ultimately have the funds foreseen in the state budget to implement it. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205090	Amendment number three of the SDP Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205091	Excuse me, I am now, if I may say so, regarding division 0.20 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representative Gordan Maras. Yes, this proposal was not accepted because it was not in accordance with the law...... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205092	Okay, well, I can mix up the paperwork, so you didn't react immediately either, and you didn't respond immediately when he called you, but you were on your cell phone, and you were looking at something else. ... Well, no, here, the only question was in the papers and here it is. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Secretary of State... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205093	I apologize, simply on the list that the Ministry of Finance has agreed on proposals and answers to the amendments, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that these budgetary positions are provided for in other items which are not delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205094	On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative Maras. Now let's make a deal, you were so impatient when the secretary of state couldn't find one piece of paper and now at least make a deal inside the SDP club who's going to talk. Dear representative Leakovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205095	If I understood correctly, the amendment would not be accepted but she would ask the Secretary of State to repeat why it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205096	Here it is, I will, I will. [[Intruder Leakovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205097	Well, he said but you should've listened instead of telling him what he couldn't find paper at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205098	The planned funds within all activities of the Civil Society Development Programme and cooperation with NGOs are sufficient to meet the obligations of the Association Office as well as the financing of projects and programmes of interest for the general good carried out by associations financed by the European Social Fund and the Swiss-Croatian cooperation programme. On the other hand, these activities, proposed by which money would be downloaded, are the provision of material resources planned for the MRLs, and at that time all equipment and means are continuously carried out and allow for the regular functioning of the Armed Forces units and in order to preserve the capacity of the Armed Forces to maintain sovereignty in the integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments undertaken in international defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205099	Here is now a detailed explanation given, respected representative Leakovic on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr. Secretary of State for the detailed explanation of the rejection of this amendment, which we know that in this health and economic crisis, which is unfortunately expected, civil society organisations, civil society associations and self-organised citizens have done very much to contribute to the consequences of the COVID pandemic 19, so it is unacceptable for us to actually punish active citizens and citizens who in civil society organisations bear an extremely large burden of assistance when it comes to social function, when it comes to humanitarian associations and when it is actually about everything that our citizens and citizens expect, and of course when they do not get it, or when it is not enough, they organise themselves and carry out various knowledge activities. Since this will certainly be the case in the coming period, we regret that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to save on civil society organisations, NGOs and, of course, we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205101	Thank you. The Fourth Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205102	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction is not accepted because the activities of the Croatian Parliament, as I said on the opening amendment, costs for services, they are provided with funds for the settlement of known commitments and for the planned restoration of parts of the Croatian Assembly building that have been damaged due to the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205103	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, the proposed amendment says something similar to that of the previous one, that in this crisis time gender equality or activity of the Office for Gender Equality and cannot accept the argument of the Government which is the same as that given earlier, given that the activities of the Assembly have already been reduced in the budget rebalancing of the technical work of the Ministry of Finance or during this crisis, the crown of the crisis until practically the Parliament has met in the manner in which it is common and and and will not be met since Monday the next 2 months. to the elections and then probably in a reduced volume because there is a summer break, the formation of the government, only from 15. 9, de facto from tomorrow or Monday, which is 18.5 to 15. 9. We will not even have concrete activities in the Croatian Parliament or there will be no need for some costs, for the services that are planned here. So if we have five months. de facto not that Parliament will not be sitting, that it will not work, then it is certainly possible to find 300,000 kn in order to promote gender equality policies, in order to allow for that topic which is Croatia a lot of me to say important and pushed aside, means HDZ does not speak of it at all because it is not in the interest that these policies come to some normal level, I will not say first because it will not be near the first plan but to be a better situation than it is today. On that side, Mr. Vice President, I insist that I take this amendment to the end of the vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205105	Thank you. The fifth amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205106	The amendment is not accepted. The project proposed here in terms of an increase in funds called "Consultation of the public on the correct communication through the Internet and social networks" is financed from EU funds totalling 6 million kuna and is planned in 2020 according to the expected spending dynamics. On the other hand, the funds from which money is intended are intended to be put on this project are the funds related to NATO missions and operations carried out in accordance with decisions taken in this House of Higher Education, so in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205107	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I proceed to explain this amendment, I would like to inform you directly that HRT violates its contractual obligations to transfer the debate on the state budget. So at this point there is no transfer on HRT, program number 4 which they would have, according to the contract signed with the Croatian Assembly, have to execute and I would like to inform you that people who care about it would be able to inform HRT that citizens have the right to hear what MPs are proposing and what the government accepts or does not accept when it comes to the state budget. So this is one indication of how HRT behaves, and I will now say it from every amendment onward to see the HDZ closes the media space by pressing the HRT not to pass on a session that discusses the state budget. So I ask you to try using the secretary of Bucharest to inform HRT that they respect the contract they signed with the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205109	We'll certainly do that, but the story of the HDZ affecting it is completely pointless, of course. But I agree that they should pass it on and... [[Intruder Maras: No, it's not pointless because it affects.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205110	Mr. Bukarca, please, the vice president has told you, inform the people working on HRT to choose to carry out their contractual obligations. As far as this amendment is concerned, the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society is something that I think colleagues and colleagues need to be promoted is clearly why. The coronary crisis has come, we have problems and we need to develop digital services and support the digital services used by our citizens. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is not at the level of developed European countries promoting and supporting the use of e-service Yeah, let me explain. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Okay, but I spent it on one thing. [[And you can't, your time is up.]] Okay, I'm asking for a vote, yes, thank you very much. [[Intruder Rainer: That's your problem, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205111	Of course. The Sixth Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205112	The amendment is not accepted. Increases to division 0.36 The Central State Sport Office is not accepted because, according to the agreement on joint financing of the rent for the City Sports Hall in Varazdin and the contract between the city of Varazdin and the company Drava, the agreement on joint financing of the Zagreb Arena since 14 June 2007 and the contract between Lanista d.o.o. and the Zagreb holding company from the said item provided for the financing of the lease and indexation of the lease for those facilities and the planned amount there is sufficient for the financing of those activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205113	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the situation next. In 2007, we built halls, which we all remember, too expensive and non-functional to the intensity and demand of then-Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and HDZ, the megalomanical halls particularly came to terms in Split where we see how the Spaladium arena passed and how much it is essentially functional. The only arena of these larger halls that works and which has as much cost-effectiveness is Zagreb and it is also on the border of rentability. Of course, all these halls have been built with excessive costs and have been overpaid which, of course, is not specific to the construction segment only when it comes to HDZ. Here what I want to mention is that if the state has somehow forced the construction of these objects, then it should also stand stronger to maintain the facilities and see how these objects could be used more. For example, if these facilities were needed in other situations, we saw in the city of Zagreb where, during the crown of the crisis, we now had a prepared reserve position for not giving a god, accepting patients who could not be hospitalized if the epidemic had been said once again, accidentally spread out and endangered most of our fellow citizens. So, colleagues and colleagues, if we have already gone to this, if we support sport in Croatia, if we support units of local self-government to develop sports facilities, I think that the government on this side, especially in the city of Zagreb, should give more support, and therefore I propose this amendment and, in some way, ask to be heard about it at the end and vote because it is clear that the government is ultimately responsible that we have these halls that have been exaggerated and invested I'm asking for a vote, yes, thank you very much. [[Thank you. You're asking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205115	Come on, please, stick to the time, you've got two minutes, that's quite enough to explain, every time you've crossed that time. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. The seventh amendment of MP Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205116	The amendment is not accepted. The value of promoting local sport and sports competition, the amount of €48 000, is planned to be paid to persons who will work on a project to encourage local sport and sports competitions and are not in a working relationship in the Central State Sport Office. Since that amount is sufficient for the planned activities, an increase of 5 million kuna is not required.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205117	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment is one of the amendments I'm talking about for the need, which I'm talking about the need to return to normal life in the Republic of Croatia. So we had a two-month crisis, we locked ourselves up, we closed everything, people went to their homes, we promoted "stay home," we fought against the virus. Here now we want to get life back to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Well, before the budget rebalancing came and before the closure of the Republic of Croatia, there was more funding. We've been thinking about how to support school sport, how to sort of do it in the Republic of Croatia in some way as much as possible and try to show the kids what they should do first. Here, the Croatian government has shown that it does not want to return to normal life. If we were good as a nation to shut everything down or defend ourselves against the virus, but now that we're supposed to go back to normal life, there's nothing now. The only thing we still have left to listen to is a political headquarters that every day at 2 o'clock speaks on HRT and on other TVs and explains to us how and how we should and when and how we should work. So on this side, instead of here, I suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia close down that headquarters that is probably already slowly and disturbing to the citizens, and that it invests more in a normal life that should be returned to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you very much. And we're asking for a natural vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205119	The seventh amendment of MP Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205120	Eight. The amendment is not accepted. All activities of prevention of violence by sports in schools are paid...... Therefore, all these activities prevent violence by sports in schools are paid afterwards to persons who will work on a project to prevent violence by sports in schools and are not in a working relationship in the Central State Sport Office. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I'm sorry, it's the eighth, sorry, it's the eighth, I'm confused, we just passed the seventh, the eighth.]] Since that amount is sufficient for the planned activities, there is no need to increase the resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205121	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Like the previous amendment, this amendment goes towards normalising the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, to move normal life into the Republic of Croatia. It is amazing to me that HDZ of all the things that Croatian citizens are struggling with, decided first to do what is right for him and these are parliamentary elections. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 90% of them were not in favour of parliamentary elections taking place in July of the month but preferred the 9th or 10th month. They were about returning normal life to our markets, streets, schools, museums, theaters, to finally start life, to enable people in the city of Zagreb to finance cultural needs, cultural programs, that's what people wanted. What did HDZ choose? He didn't choose plays, he didn't choose cinemas, he didn't choose a normal school because at this point in the Republic of Croatia we don't have a normal school but we have something that's an illusion that the education system is going on and everything is on parents and teachers doing it online. And on that side and this is another one in a set of amendments that I have submitted to make the Croatian final government realize that citizens do not ask it to provide the HDZ with a better result in parliamentary elections, they are not interested at all, ladies and gentlemen. 90% of Croatian citizens are against the elections being held in July, they are interested in returning normal life to Croatia as soon as possible and therefore I propose this amendment and ask for a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205123	The ninth amendment of counsel Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205124	The amendment is not accepted. The activities and training and equipment for the needs of fire interventions have been provided with sufficient resources according to the Croatian Fire Community's 2020 work programme and the parallel funds proposed to settle the amount proposed by this amendment relate to NATO missions carried out in accordance with decisions taken in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205125	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the beginning, I will inform you that the HRT continues to ignore what we are paying it for, so that we pay the HRT and the fee that Croatian citizens pay in part, pay to be able to monitor what is happening in the state budget. I continue to inform you that television violates the contract it signed with the Croatian Parliament, it still has a studio show instead of following the debate on the state budget. I don't know if you've informed anyone, whether the information has been passed, but this is scandalous. The Croatian public money taken from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia does not allow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear what HRT signed in the contract to follow and this is a debate on the state budget, and therefore our citizens cannot hear a reason about this amendment, the ninth amendment that I have given and it is about to give recognition to the heroes of the Republic of Croatia, one of the heroes of the Republic during the earthquakes in the city of Zagreb who worked day and night with their colleagues from Zagreb firefighters and from all over Croatia and helped people when unfortunately it was the hardest and when they did not get help from the city of Zagreb. I therefore propose that Croatia's fire community be increased from 9.5 million kuna to approximately 15.5 million in 2020 so that new challenges that will surely be met before them can be met as quickly as possible. So we have a fire season coming up, we're coming up with a season where their services will also be of invaluable importance, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205127	11th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205128	Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205129	Since it's the same, and if you gave it 150 and I'm having a hard time getting along sometimes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205130	So the amendment is not accepted. On the project, the programme implements specific fire protection measures provided for sufficient funds according to the Croatian Fire Community programme for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205131	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205132	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, apparently the same, but if you'd looked at what program it was about then you'd understand that the amendment is different than what was before. It's exactly what I was saying. So we're facing a new challenge for firefighters. After doing a great job during the earthquake in Zagreb and helping the citizens of the City of Zagreb and thanking them for that, after helping their colleagues from the City of Zagreb and selflessly spending their time and resources for several months, there comes a time when, as every year in Dalmatia, no matter what this tourist season unfortunately, there will be no such level as we used to in recent years, but time does not ask, the heat will not ask, and the firefighters must be ready. On that side, I don't think you ever invest enough in the material technical means of our firemen. And I suggest that it increase, to increase the funds from, from, from, from, 23 to 29 million kuna, because I think that with these means, they could certainly be more prepared or welcome the season of fires more ready than they will be without it. Let's remember what it looked like over the past years, let's remember last year when Minister Krsticevic resigned because of certain things, remember how much the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has problems because of these elemental disasters. I think the Croatian government must show, I would say, more hearing, more understanding and in some way stand more determined behind our firefighters and our Croatian Fire Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205133	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205134	I'm asking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205135	11th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205136	The amendment is not accepted. Accordingly, the Croatian Fire Community Programme for 2020 was developed. additional balancing activities for the decentralised function of firefighters are provided in accordance with the mention of the Croatian Fire Community's work programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205137	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205138	Thank you very much. Here we are talking not about the fire community but about the decentralised resources that go on DVD throughout the Republic and equipping them and functioning them as one of the key components of a successful fire system in the Republic of Croatia because we are all aware that without DVDs, without such organization there is no possibility of normal functioning of the fire system. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, I think that the Republic of Croatia has to show in these times of crisis, which is important to her, which is what it will stand behind, the money for all things is probably gone, but there are some things that may not be needed, for certain purchases and purchases in the state budget that may wait a few years, but for these things, help DVDs, equip them, make them more efficient, I think they should always find money. And on this side of this year, especially for local DVDs, I think that more resources should be allocated, that this 30 million kuna more resources I have proposed here in the budget can be found, especially in the provision of certain material resources at the Ministry of Defence because given the crisis, given the weaker charge of the budget, given the less activity that will surely, if we talk about exercises and all that the military is doing, we will be able to find these certain 30 million kunas. So, firemen must be a priority, firemen must allow Croatian citizens to feel safe and to know as they always know that firefighters will come to their aid whenever they need them and therefore I also ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205139	The 12th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205140	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the planned funds for the implementation of investment-enhancing measures are sufficient and reflect a realistic assessment of the needs needed for the settlement of commitments. The calculation is based on the implementation of this measure so far and on the monitoring and determination of the level and dynamics of budgetary commitments for the next period in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Encouragement Act. In addition, it is not technically possible to implement the amendment, given that the equipment activity has been carried out by means of material technical means with an estimated €358.5 million of the planned €380.9 and the remaining neutrino resources cannot be reduced by the amount requested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205141	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am still warning of the breach of the contract that HRT has, let the citizens who at least follow us through the internet know that Kazimir Bačić, director of HRT, is violating the contract he signed with HS. This will not prevent me from talking any further about any of those proposals I have proposed for the Croatian budget. But it is a shame that the people appointed by the Croatian Government, who correspond to the board of directors, pardons, which the Croatian Government abrogates and somehow manages with the HRT to violate the conscious contract they signed with the one they are responsible for. That's what we have in the Republic of Croatia today and that's what the editor of Kovacevic Bruno, also close to HDZ and Kazimir Bačić, and I'm going to say it now after every amendment, I'm going to keep saying it because I really can't believe they're breaking what they signed. As far as this Mr. Secretary of State is concerned, I disagree with you. If we had a lockdown, if we didn't invest if people couldn't work, then of course we weren't running the program according to the dynamics as planned or as it was last year. But if I want to, if we want a normal RH, if we want the Croatian economy to move on, then we have to move on with the incentives of the economy because all of you, all of you, in the second part of the RH budget, have reduced practically to zero, everything that has been realized okay, what should be in the next part of the year, you removed it. If we want the economic downturn to be as small as possible, if we want the economy to normalise as soon as possible in the Republic of Croatia, I call on you to accept these amendments and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205143	13th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205144	The amendment is not accepted. Since activities and withdrawals and support for investment and exports will be additionally financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds and the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme 2014-2020. Therefore, no funds are needed in that part, immersed into NATO-based missions that are proposed to be reduced are implemented and are secured by the basic decisions of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205145	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205146	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, all these funds you've reduced in a way that have been planned much more in the original draft budget. So I didn't draw numbers here that were bigger than was already planned than much less than was planned in the draft budget that we adopted in December 2019. So it's not true that, if these funds were not spent, it's not true that these funds were not needed, but the government decided to cut spending and it reduced consumption right where it shouldn't have been reduced, in economic incentives. This is about as if the European Commission, the European budget, decided not to pay incentives for those most affected in the economy. On the contrary, after giving some incentives and through the Republic of Croatia, we have received money from the EU, it will continue with programmes that will continue to support the economy and the most affected parts of the economy in this crisis. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, she did not accept it, but I ask you when we have a vote on these amendments that they accept or accept any possible assistance that would, which would, which would allow the Croatian economy to recover as soon as possible, recuperate, however you wish. So, what I'm saying is that we can't expect the Croatian economy to move forward unless we have support through the budget, unless we have incentives through the budget, which would allow this economic downturn to go out as quickly as possible and move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205147	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205148	I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205149	The 14th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205150	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts does not encourage research, development and innovation only from this activity, so measures to promote research, development and innovation. The largest part of the separation is from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion in '14-20. where innovation of newly established micro- and medium-sized entrepreneurs, commercialisation and innovation and innovation vouchers and development and integration activities into global value chains is encouraged. In this regard, of course, this will continue, and from this year on businesses can also submit applications for their research development projects under the State Support Act for Research Development Projects. This is about tax relief, essentially a reduction in the tax base, which is also an incentive to invest in innovation research.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205151	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all that unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia has chosen to fight the crisis and the economic downturn in a way that takes the funds to companies in the Republic of Croatia. The funds that should have been aided by the government, excuse me, the companies that should have been aided by the government of the Republic of Croatia, are losing that aid. Look, we as a country at year level for measures to encourage research and development of innovation in companies in the Republic of Croatia have set aside 5.65 million kunas. We had before in the first budget that was adopted last year in December 2019, we had significantly higher funds. Minister Maric pulled everything in this crisis, but he did it wrong. You cannot expect the economy to develop unless it invests in innovation and development. You can't expect the Republic of Croatia's economy to move forward unless it's given to entrepreneurs to move forward, you can't take the money, so it's a completely wrong approach and I here, even symbolically, it's not some large amount from 5 to 15 million kuna, I'm trying to send a message that we're behind the economy and I hope that the government will give up such a policy. If the government doesn't give up, I ask all the MPs in HS that when we come here on Monday to vote on the amendments, to accept this amendment so that the economy will experience its recovery as soon as possible, I ask for a vote, and I ask you if I can get a glass of water.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205153	Uh, then all the MPs will get 'cause there's no reason why you'd only get one. Uh, the 15th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205154	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205155	Just don't ask for an omelet next time, please. Don't look for an omelet next time, please or something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205156	Therefore, the funds on this activity, called the implementation of activities for sustainable industrial growth, are used to settle international membership fees. Therefore, international membership fees on the basis of signed contracts, i.e. agreements, are also sufficient to settle those obligations relating to those international memberships.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205157	Your Honor, Commissioner Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205158	Thank you very much. I wasn't asking for any special status, I was just asking to have a sip, since I'm already talking for 30, 40 minutes, and I'll probably be talking for the next four hours, so I wanted to ask you to. In this amendment, I propose similar to the previous amendments to one of the projects, and this is about carrying out activities for the sustainable operation of industry to allocate more significant funds in 2020. So the concept that Minister Maric obviously accepted and suggested that everything from the budget should be moved, which is not necessarily necessary for him or for the maintenance of the cold drive. So I ask you who will produce added value, who will allow us to hire Croatian citizens who will remain at this time and who remain unemployed? So at this point, only during this two month period have several tens of thousands of our citizens lost their jobs, and that's why HDZ is running to the polls, so HDZ wants to go to the polls in the 7th month because they know that unfortunately, we are not looking forward to it, but we are warning about it and therefore we propose these amendments so that Croatian companies can work and stay on the surface. We know that the situation in the 9th and 10th months will be even worse, and it is unclear to me because it is obvious that Minister Maric has accepted the logic that worked in Agrokor, meaning that he is in charge only of cold drive or consumption and ultimately leads to the collapse of the entire system. I am asking you, gentlemen, for MPs and MPs to support this amendment and to try to do what is right, which is to strengthen our support for the Croatian economy and for the sake of also asking for a vote on this amendment. It's something I think we should do because otherwise, we have a long-term recession ahead of us. And on that side here, Mr. Vice President, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205159	The 16th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205160	The amendment is not accepted. The grant of interest for entrepreneurship loans for 2020 amounts to 13 million kuna and there is no need to increase because there have been no new requirements for interest subsidies towards counties, given the completion of a programme called the ‘Improvement of entrepreneurship and crafts programme’ or ‘Breeding until the success of 2014’, which ended on 31 December 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205161	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If what the secretary of state says is true, then it is unclear why the government planned a larger amount at the beginning of the year for this purpose. There wouldn't be any need for more planning if this was what the secretary of state said was true. I think the consequence of what is happening exactly the opposite, that from before the crisis and since last year of course the programs have been completely abolished, it is a very quality program that allows many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by county in the Republic of Croatia and craftsmen to launch their jobs. And of course the message being sent here to entrepreneurs and craftsmen is exactly the one I claim to be guilty of, and that's not to invest, don't invest, if you still have situations where you started some investments with them. So instead of trying to give cheaper loans now, trying to give people maybe a moratorium for a year to welcome a new season if it's about tourism, we're cutting subsidies. That's not good. This government was supposed to sit with banks, this government was supposed to pass a law, it was supposed to support a SDP law that talked about a year of moratorium on loans for both citizens and companies. Imagine how people in the Republic of Croatia now feel about their entrepreneurial ventures, for example in tourism they took 100, 200,000 euros in credit and there is no tourist season, where they will pay for it, does anyone think about it in the government? I see that, not since the interest subsidies are being reduced and the subsidies that entrepreneurs should achieve and ask for a vote on this amendment are being reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205163	The 17th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205164	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed budget plan of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2020 at the position of the Small Economy Guarantee activity, refers to reservations for losses incurred, not guarantee potential. The means of carrying out that activity are already provided by the proposed plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205165	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205166	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, please correct me if I am wrong, it seems that Kazimir Bačić and Bruno Kovacevic are stronger than the state, means that they determine in Croatia how laws and contracts should be respected. I'm curious as to why there's still no transmission on HRT, I'm inviting you to interrupt the session until they do. Yes, it can be funny to you, Mr. Bukarica, is it an obligation, see what it says in the contract between HRT and HS and the obligation to inform Croatian citizens in view of the money that HRT receives from paid broadcasting fees. So I want to inform you once again. And here I'm talking about guarantees that will certainly be increased in this year given the crisis that has occurred and given the guarantees that have been issued over the past years. It is normal to increase guarantees if the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Innovation HAMAG-BICRO expects certain requirements from its users. If some have come to the problem because of the covid or because there will be a recession this year of 10%, do I not understand how colleagues and colleagues, do you expect that item to remain the same? I expect it will be bigger, that the demands have already been activated, that people will unfortunately get in trouble. No one is looking forward to it, but we need to be prepared for people to be able to achieve these guarantees in some way. And on that side of my colleague and colleague, Vice President, I would like to inform you that I will also request the vote and support of MPs and MPs in HS on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205167	Of course, however, I must answer you because you insist on the obligation. There is a contract, of course, but it clearly states in that contract that HRT has software and editorial independence, so they cannot or cannot be dictated to them by what parts and parts they will carry. And when in the part where what is actually wanted to be achieved and what is transmitted in HS sessions, it is also specified that they have the right to other content also to be transmitted. Therefore, we cannot order them to carry something or not. This is the turn of the contract, so it would obviously be good to transfer, but they do, most of it really do, and in some moments they probably insert some of the contents, just following that contract. We're going to the 18th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205168	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed budget plan for support activities for research and development projects refers to covering the costs of external experts to evaluate project applications under the State Support Act for research and development projects. Therefore, the funds planned for that activity do not affect the number of project applications received by entrepreneurs or the amount of State support that entrepreneurs may receive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205169	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you realized that the budget transfer should be, no matter what they have the ability to pass on, something else. This is important for Croatian citizens to know that the Croatian contract accepts the obligation to transfer specifically the budgetary topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205171	No, no, that doesn't stand, that's not true. That's not true what you're saying, I categorically deny it. No, I've said my opinion that it would be good for them to pass it on, but I can't order it. And the contract absolutely doesn't say that they have to carry They must transfer the Assembly's meetings so that they can include other contents and that allows them to contract. [[Intruder Maras: And what must they carry?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205172	It says specifically which, I've seen it like this before, it's written like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205173	You saw wrong. Look at the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205174	I just know what practice is, so far, the transfer on the budget has always been monitored in a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205175	This isn't about the budget transfer this is a declaration of amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205176	Budget proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205177	The draft budget, but the draft budget has been fully submitted and all discussions, all remarks and all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205178	Uh, here you go, Mr. Vice President. Now we've come to the point of passing the budget debate, and that's their obligation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205179	No, it doesn't say that if I should tell you five times the same thing, it doesn't say in the contract. Let's go if you want to do the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205180	Okay, okay, so HRT broke practice right now on the last day of the HS meeting to transfer the debate on the budget and does not want to hear, it does not want Croatian citizens to hear what the Croatian government objects to the state budget. One of these objections is the reduction in the 18th amendment to increase, i.e. the pardon support for research and development projects, that is something that Croatian citizens should not hear in the opinion of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205181	The 19th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205182	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed reduction in HS's cost-related position for services because these funds are intended for the settlement of known liabilities as well as for the planned renewal of part of the HS building which is damaged as a result of the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205183	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This is about something very common during this term, and it is not support by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on a conflict of interest. So we witnessed the avoidance of the Prime Minister and HDZ to give information about their visit to Finland. We have witnessed the ignoring of the commission by many institutions that are within the government and the ministries, we have witnessed that 14 ministers and ministers have left the government of the Republic of Croatia precisely because of the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. And we believe that this commission should be given more funding, that more support should be given to the commission and that it should finally be recognised that this limit of unacceptableness of certain things in the Republic of Croatia has been raised. So from that side of the co-worker and colleagues, Tolusic would not leave the government of the Republic of Croatia, he would not leave Kushevic from the government of the Republic of Croatia, so these are all ministers who left because of the work of the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest because they found discrepancies in property, with journalists, of course, because they found many things they couldn't explain to them. And that is why I ask that, in this way, greater support to the commission, especially in information, so that Croatian citizens can digitally monitor the movement in the property of officials and thus react as soon as possible. Imagine now we have a situation for digital people to see that Bandic has artistic works of 30, 40,000 kuna at home to make art [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Okay, I'm asking for a vote on that. [[Intruder Reiner: You've gone beyond your time again, so finally discipline yourself.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205185	That's why the Rules of Procedure, there's some order, so we're not exactly in the jungle, are we? 20th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205186	The amendment is not accepted. In connection with literary publishing, the Ministry of Culture makes a public call for funding the programme on culture in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, and... the programmes discusses and values the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. In this respect, the funds for the financing of literary publishing are therefore provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205187	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. There will now be several amendments to culture, which unfortunately happened in Croatia during this crisis, and I will dare say, it was the most injured in the Croatian metropolis in the capital city of Zagreb, where something that had not happened anywhere, and that is that the decision of the City's headship or mayor has suspended all the programmes in culture, all of them. So at this point in Zagreb's culture not only does nothing happen because okay, I can't even do museums and theatres, etc., but nothing will happen and when conditions are obtained to open them, because of what the mayor of Zagreb has decided to stop all programmes with the support of HDZ. And I propose one of the amendments to finally start talking in Croatia about this problem, to stand behind free artists, to stand behind free publishers or publishers and writers and those who contribute to their work to make Croatia a better place, and on this side I propose that this amendment increase support for literary publishing from 34 to 44 million kuna. Of course, it wouldn't hurt a little more transparency for the minister and her team in sharing these funds because it usually ends up still on the principle of who's better with whom, instead of doing better programs and importing better quality titles and therefore asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205189	21st Amendment of MP Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205190	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is similar in the sense that the Ministry of Culture is calling for the funding of the programme in accordance with the law. As regards the proposed increase here related to the financing of the Culture New Foundation, funds have been provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in accordance with the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the revenue from gambling for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205191	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205192	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course I'm not happy with the explanation the Ministry of Culture has delivered to you here to present him at HS. So what I was looking for was just a return to the old or return to the funding level that the Culture New Foundation had in its proposal for a state budget for 2020. It is said that in the rebalancing of the state budget, the Ministry of Culture is significantly damaged by the culture ministry's budget is now lower by about 8%. In particular, when it comes to the Culture New Foundation, which is a complementary source of funding for the contemporary artistic practices of the civil society organisation, it lost almost a million kuna in this rebalancing process. I believe that, as we know, the arts of culture, artists and artists have not been able to perform in these past months because of the health crisis in much part of what they intended or could not in some way reach their audience, I believe that because of their health reasons, they have been prevented from acting in a way that is common, especially in implementing arts they should not be punished, and it seems to me that these moves by the Government of the Republic and the Resord Ministry do not only help this crisis in culture overcome itself but in some way punish artists and artists and all those who care about culture and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205193	22nd Amendment of MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205194	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons as indicated in the preceding amendment as well as the amendment before that of the amendment to the number of the 20th Honorable Representative of Mr Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205195	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205196	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Again, I am not satisfied with, of course, the explanation delivered to you from the Ministry of Culture. In this amendment, I asked for an increase in the funds for participation in culture and the development of the audience to the funds that were otherwise planned in the draft state budget for 2020. It is again that from the current 3 million and 900 thousand kuna, these funds are increasing to 4 million kunas as previously planned. It may seem to someone that the funds that are not significant, however, when we know that just participating in culture and the development of the audience are related to the social inclusion of those who otherwise do not have access to cultural content, not only in terms of audience but also in terms of participation, in terms of avoidance of all possible forms of discrimination or prejudice in this society, then I think it is very important that the Government of the Republic and in the proposal for the rebalance of this budget, and also in the future takes care that cultural content be geographical, be social, be economically accessible especially to those who are not socially and economically powerful. And again, I am sorry that on these programmes and on these projects, civil society organisations and art organizations, artists and artists are also saving money. Of course you ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205197	23rd Amendment of MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205198	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, due to the spread of Covid-19 disease, there has been a reduced range in the implementation of the Rijeka 2020 programme. The European Capital of Culture and therefore the added funds are not necessary. Other activities in the position of spiritual care are planned for the spiritual care of ministry employees and armed forces in line with the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205199	Dear representative Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. I reiterate my dissatisfaction with the answer of the Ministry of Culture which you are presented here to read it to me or to inform me of it. Therefore, as regular parliamentary elections are planned in Croatia sometime in July of this year and because epidemiological assumptions are created, a favourable epidemiological situation, I suppose, in the same way, will begin again to a greater extent or in full extent, and the programmes that are related to something is not only to the city of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County but the entire Republic of Croatia should be a central cultural event this year, and then, of course, create assumptions for the development of culture and art in the coming years and in fact, one whole generation of artists and artists, and also us who follow culture and participate in culture as an audience in some way entrenched. Here we are talking about that the funds for the implementation of the European Capital of Culture Programme Rijeka 2020 from the position of the Ministry of Culture, which is their obligation, have been reduced from 15 million kuna to 10 million kuna, which, of course, I disagree with and I believe that since we are going towards a favourable epidemiological situation and good handling with the virus, we need to be very supportive. So, to talk about Croatia having an obligation to contract with the Holy Table, to spend on spiritual care at the Ministry of Defence and to this rebalancing of 9 million and 270 thousand kuna. I would rather that amount be reduced a little less than by 5 million kuna, that will certainly be enough and to take more care of our spiritual and cultural needs within the framework of the European Capital of Culture Rijeka 2020. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205201	24th Amendment of MP Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205202	The amendment is not accepted. The funds under the support programme to the religious communities are intended for the settlement of contractual obligations, therefore the basis of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia as an international contract cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205203	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205204	In the amendment that I asked that the funds that were otherwise provided for in the national budget for this year refer to the Operational Programme Effective human potential, and in fact to all programmes and projects implemented by the Ministry of Culture and the Republic of Croatia through civil society organisations, the "media Community" programme and in every way tries to make culture, art, art and cultural creation available to the greater circle of people, especially those who are economically and socially discriminated or whose cultural content at local and national level is not so accessible. Again, it is an extremely bad message from the Croatian government and the Ministry of Culture that they are reducing funds in this way when it comes to social inclusion, precisely when it comes to the development of the possibility of participation of those who otherwise do not have access to culture and art because they do not have financial opportunities. Of course, I have requested a reduction in the resources foreseen in the state budget for the financing of religious communities because I believe that the religious communities, especially the Catholic Church in Croatia in this crisis, have passed uncircumcised, perhaps the only one of all. So I demand a vote on this amendment and I hope that the next government will have much more hearing for the cultural needs of its citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205205	The 25th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205206	The amendment is not accepted. Regarding the programme Entrepreneurship in Culture and Creative Industry, the reason for not accepting the amendment is the same as the amendment to the regular number 20 of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205207	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is one of the economic branches, although in the main ministry of culture that has developed a lot over the past years, which is particularly expressed, in the position of further developing compared to before, because these creative industries include, for example, making online games or mobile applications, etc. It would be logical that given that the situation is such that it is appropriate for such companies to develop to support them and allow them to engage in certain activities. On the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible to reduce the funds planned under the programme in the past period to mean in the 2020 budget and instead of trying to recognise the moment or the possibility to take a step forward in that segment, it is doing exactly the opposite. And that's why I'm asking us to try here in HS to find ways to recognize that we can do certain things, even though the budget is in a relatively difficult situation for the economy to start and eventually have the possibility of getting out of recession as quickly as possible. Companies dealing with creative entrepreneurship, etc. Creative industries are developing in Croatia, and in these difficult times there are many that are both internationally successful and certainly there is room for these incentives to be used even better and therefore I ask for a vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205209	The 26th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205210	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture invests considerable funds in the restoration of cultural monuments in the Republic of Croatia which are financed in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture on the basis of which a public call for funding of the programme is called for. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Council for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205211	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. What I can tell you and what I think we should do in some way is invest in monuments that we have in the Republic of Croatia, especially in monuments that made the Republic of Croatia a winning Allied power after II. World War I. So because of the strong anti-fascist movement in the Republic of Croatia whose participant was one of your predecessors in the position of HS president, the great poet from the island of Brac, Mr. Nazor, I think it is amazing that Croatia is ignoring this segment and that we must watch how hundreds and hundreds and thousands of monuments, unfortunately have no support from the Ministry of Culture in the form of protection of monuments of anti-fascist fighting in the Republic of Croatia. So these 5 million kunas may not solve the problem, but it would allow many of these monuments to look much better than they look today because it is not something Croatia should not be proud of. So these monuments are something that Croatia should be proud of and that many of the tourists would be very happy to visit and look at. So the shame for the Republic of Croatia is exactly the opposite of not taking care of these monuments, and that's why I suggest that these 5 million kunas be singled out in this year, that we move on with it, and that next year we continue in that direction. Because the government doesn't accept it, I am asking you, Mr. Vice President, to discuss this amendment on Monday for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205213	Of course. The 27th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Budget Act, and we will move on to the 28th amendment of Representative Maras. Here's a colleague of Maras what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205214	We have received information that everything is fine with this amendment, from Vice President Hayadas Doncic. ... Here it is, here it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205215	All right, let's continue the session. I said why we won't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205216	Then you shouldn't even be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205217	The 28th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205218	The amendment is not accepted. Since the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not a source of funding for unclassified roads, it is the same in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government as the basis of the Article. 98.i 101. The road law currently does not have the possibility of meeting that requirement. In addition, it is not possible to implement the amendment technically, given the funds implemented so far, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 million kuna has been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205219	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the amendment we are moving to an area that is particularly important to me, which is the City of Zagreb and the situation that we have in the City of Zagreb. All other amendments, or a large majority of them, refer precisely to the City of Zagreb and here we are talking about that, regardless of the budget of 10 billion kuna, regardless of the budget of Holding, which is still approximately as much related to public enterprises, related to what and how they deal with, regardless of the large number of users in the City of Zagreb who use Zagreb Holding services daily, the road infrastructure does not satisfy or is not good. And I must admit that this amendment looks this small and unusual since the City of Zagreb would have to deal with these things on its own, as citizens of the City of Zagreb pay the highest tax in the Republic of Croatia and each year more than 500 million kuna is additionally on taxes for all we pay from the salaries of Zagreb and Zagreb so that this infrastructure will ultimately be of quality. Unfortunately, she didn't. Here is one of the projects that has been standing for years de facto in a drawer that is not being removed and which city the size of Zagreb should be resolved only so that no one can turn or simply technical arrangements and solve it. But since that is not the case, I propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is its partner and one of the closest coalition partners to predict this amount in the budget and that in this way Zagreb is made possible and I ask for a vote on it Monday when the statement is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205221	The 29th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205222	As with the previous amendment, this amendment is also not accepted for the same reasons, so there is currently no legal possibility of reducing that requirement, given that it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea but in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government because it is the subject of their decision. It is also not possible to implement the amendment for the technical reasons I just described.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205223	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment touches one of me would say the most important and most bitter topics in the City of Zagreb, which is the recovery of bridges that are in very poor condition that we can witness every day, whether, unfortunately, because of the weariness of the pipe, we have the end of the hot water supply in New Zagreb or when visually, people who cross, and cross them a lot by using all the rash for recreation, can testify and see how long these bridges have lasted. Since nothing has been invested in them for years, since even the coalition partner of Mr Bandic in the government of the Republic of Croatia, HNS has warned of it, and it still does nothing, we think that this should support the budget item because this is about bridges used daily by hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens. It means whether they traveled from, on the one hand, Sava to the other side of the Sava, whether they traveled from one county to another, for example, someone from Sisak or someone from Velika Gorica who goes to the city of Zagreb, means hundreds of thousands of our citizens and our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, more counties use these bridges that have worn out, and I would say, partially endanger the safety and safety of those who use them. Since the city of Zagreb has been financially devastated by long-term squeeze, i.e. by sucking money on any projects from the city budget and by not investing the city of Zagreb in these bridges, I suggest that we do so through the state budget because I think the citizens of the city of Zagreb and those who use these bridges deserve it and therefore I ask that we make clear on these amendments on Monday, i.e. to try to do everything to make our fellow citizens feel safer Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205225	The 30th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205226	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation, as has been said for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205227	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about another infrastructure thing or road in the city of Zagreb, which many of our citizens see every year. So we have Branimira, which was built in one of its lengths and somewhere on top of the fourth, that is, Gornja Dubrava, yes, should continue towards the Councils and end the road and it does not end for years because the city of Zagreb unfortunately does not allocate enough money, and it is not able to even withdraw money from the EU funds that exist for these projects. So the problem is in the city of Zagreb means that apparently the mayor Bandic does not have enough resources to complete certain projects that should be supported and that should be completed in order for citizens to have better quality services, in this case of transport, and on the other hand, there is not enough quality to, and skills, be realised by EU funds. For this reason, I propose that this money is planned in the state budget so that it will finally be completed so that citizens of the city of Zagreb and guests, those who use road infrastructure, can finally have more quality traffic or transport from one part of Zagreb to another, for example from Sesveto to the city centre. This, in these directions, is also going on a daily basis, more than a hundred thousand people and I suggest that this, one of the busier roads in the Republic of Croatia, I propose that this be put into the budget, or that this amendment be made known when it comes to the amendments Monday and the MPs in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205229	The 31st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205230	The amendment is not accepted. There is currently a second phase of master plan of the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska County, which discusses the options of the solutions in question. HZ infrastructure is in the process of procurement for the study of Zagreb knots, which will consider possible solutions to denivelation of the railway... In addition, it is not possible to carry out technical guidance in the master plan, given that the equipment activity of the technical means has been implemented so far with 500, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9, therefore there is no sufficient resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205231	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205232	At first, I would ask that after this amendment a little break because you should do something urgent, maybe 5 minutes, I don't think it should be a problem since the Republic of Croatia is unable to make an education system for my children to be in school, they're at my office, I'd just give them to my wife, if you'll let me who came in front of HS after I finish this amendment, here, that's my application to you. So my kids aren't walking around the building alone, and now I'm going to explain the 31st Amendment. It is about denivelation of the railway through the city of Zagreb and it is about that unfortunately, we are aware in the city of Zagreb how much trouble we have because the railway is part of it, especially the eastern part of Zagreb passing through Gornja and Donja Dubrava, meaning the borderline from those two quarters and there is unfortunately quite often traffic interrupted. So in Trnava, it's one of the biggest problems, it was even I would say, protesting citizens, and when you have a situation where during one day at 20, 30, 40 times traffic is interrupted, and people have to wait to move from one side of the road, it's really not a quality solution, and that state could do that by deniveling the railroad and that transition, as it did in some other parts of the city. And on the other hand, if we deniveled the railroad from the main station in the city center to the west side of town, big spaces would be opened that unfortunately we're not using right now because they're being taken over by the railroad. For the start of the project, I plan 100 million kuna, as I say once again, Mayor Bandic, or the city administration, is unable to do so and I suggest that the amendment be voted on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205233	Although it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but they have the understanding that your children are in the office, I will give you a five-minute break, and you have already crushed the Croatian Army with your amendments, when you add them together, she has no means at all of this, this one, and then we can see each other...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205234	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205235	And we can't skip this amendment, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205236	Okay, I'm fast. I'll be back in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205237	...you, five minutes off so you can pick up the kids. At 16 and 5, I'll see you then. [[It's 4:00 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.05 HOURS]] Well, then we move on, with the 32nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205239	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205240	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that the City of Zagreb is obviously a second-class town in the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed this after the earthquake, 58 days since the catastrophic earthquake in the City of Zagreb there is no help for the City of Zagreb. The state is involved with minimum amounts, and the City of Zagreb is not even spoken of at all. After what was promised public consultation on the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, nothing happened. On that side, I am aware that unless it was possible or that, unless the Government of the Republic of Croatia did so, it would not accept and would not accept this amendment either. Since it is one of the biggest traffic problems in the eastern part of town, it is the construction of the Trnava overpass where I will once again mention 100 thousand of our citizens each day passing through and 10 thousand of our fellow citizens are standing and needlessly losing hours and hours waiting for the ramp to rise or that they can pass from one side of the street to the other, it is amazing to me that this problem has not already been solved so far. So this problem must have directly affected several tens of thousands of our citizens in the City of Zagreb who probably lose every day several hours waiting in the column. This amount, this possibility of getting rid of it because it's owned by the Croatian Railways would trust me so much to raise the quality of their lives that many of these things that seem amazing to them now, and that, for example, move a few hundred meters away with the car, and that they have to plan to last an hour would now be possible for them. So I ask you to get on this amendment and vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205242	The 33rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205243	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205244	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205245	Thank you very much. All who use Zagreb bridges can testify to how many more Zagreb needs, how many more bridges are needed in Zagreb. One of these bridges is the Trnjan bridge that would go between the two bridges so it would go up, so it would go a little bit east of the National University Library, so on that side we would get another direction that might be directly connected to Sloboština, Dugava and then towards Buzin and Velika Gorica. This bridge would further relieve certain directions that are at this point in critical parts of the day quite burdened and I think it should be one of the priorities and state, especially when we talk about the City of Zagreb. Zagreb said I, unfortunately the city which became obvious to the government of the Republic of Croatia is irrelevant. Mostly because it supports the Government of the Republic of Zagreb's criminal power that has so many affairs that it is already amazingly general and monitoring and watching. The mayor of Zagreb spends hours and hours in courts, although now the situation with Covid is as it is, in that moment it means it is not so much expression, but in recent months you have been able to watch him there almost every other day. And on this side, I know I can't expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to support Zagreb in this way, but what I can tell the Zagreb and Zagreb women is that if there is a change in power that Bandic will become the final part of the city of Zagreb, HDZ will no longer be able to support him and Change Plenkovic to change Bandic. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205246	The 34th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205247	The amendment is not accepted, with an explanation as well as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205248	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205249	Thank you very much. It's about proposing another design, building another bridge. Here we are talking about a Jaroon bridge that would connect the western part of the city a little better than it is today. In particular, he would open up the direction towards the city district of Bezovica because it would be possible to shorten and open one, shorten the way to Bezovica and open up a huge space that, which, unfortunately, is not used now, and on the other side of the bridge that would also reroute one part of the traffic that goes unnecessarily through the practical center of the city. Unfortunately, monuments and fountains are designed in the City of Zagreb instead of bridges, it is a fetish of our mayor, instead of designing and building bridges, instead of designing and building new traffic routes, instead of designing and building and helping citizens to rebuild the City of Zagreb, we do not have any of them at this time. Unfortunately, I also said by not accepting this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows how much care it is for the City of Zagreb the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows that the City of Zagreb has no support for its projects and that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are left to themselves. It's something we can't allow, it's something we have to change. And once again, changing Plenkovic means automatically changing Bandic. It is something that the citizens of the City of Zagreb must know and that the de facto vote for HDZ is a voice directly that the Mayor Bandic remains in his position and in some way harassing Citizens of the City of Zagreb and I ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205250	The 37th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205251	Amendment 37...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205252	Namely, 35th and 36th. Representatives Curray and Keatazi have been withdrawn, so we're going to the 37th Representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205253	... the amendment is not accepted, therefore, in the creation of a legislative framework relating to the system, the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the areas damaged by the earthquake in division 076 of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Arrangement by the proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget for this year to the activities of the recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area, funds amounting to 100 million kuna have been provided from the source of the general income and receipt of 88 million kuna and donations of 12 million kuna. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it is not technically possible to implement it in view of the fact that this activity which was the subject of the proposal, this is the provision of materially technical means in the context of the funding source, already 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 kuna, therefore there is no sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205254	The 38th Amendment, and the pardoned representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205255	Thank you very much. I have just been informed that it has been released into the e-consultation of the proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, which apparently resulted from public pressure and the pressure of political parties between them and the SDP to do so, but unfortunately this amendment, which did not accept, shows how seriously the Government of the Republic of Zagreb has restored. One hundred million kuna is planned for you, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and fellow citizens of 42 billion damages provided by Minister Štromar 100 million kuna in the budget was foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This tells you enough how serious they are about the reconstruction of Zagreb, it tells you enough what will happen to this Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. The SDP proposes to refund all those who are damaged and who have to rebuild their buildings either statically or to build them up at the beginning that the state refunds 50% of the cost, that the city refunds 30% of the cost, and that the owners themselves must refund 20% of the cost. It's a concrete aid, not 100 million kuna. We must restore Zagreb in the way Zagreb deserves it, we must stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb. This amendment and not accepting this amendment by the government shows how it feels about the renewal of Zagreb. Government of the Republic of Croatia does not behind Zagreb and Zagreb, and I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205256	The 38th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205257	The amendment is not accepted. It is therefore the construction of a deforestation system in the City of Zagreb in terms of the proposal, the deforestation projects in the area of local self-government units are financed from the financing of municipal compensation under the Law on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205258	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about one of the infrastructure projects in the City of Zagreb, or parts in which more should be invested with regard to the disposal of the coastal water. Unfortunately, Croatia's waters don't care enough about this, we witness it every year when due to poor maintenance, maintenance of the system quite often leads to the clogging of these drain systems and then according to these floods, but what I want to say here is that the City of Zagreb is now seeking from its 10 billion kuna government the delimination of the debt. So he spent everything that Mayor Bandic could do, the city budget is empty, the city budget can't de facto meet even the most basic needs that were put before him and now he would still be in debt to the Zagreb and Zagreb women and spend it on his projects that were regularly overpaid. We're talking about monuments on that side, and we're talking about cableways. So the problem and why I propose this amendment is because of what is urban, which is city finance ahead of collapse, which is why Mayor Bandic doesn't know if he will be able to meet the basic obligations that the City of Zagreb has to function next month. And on the other hand, it is amazing that HDZ continues to support Mayor Bandic, to hold him in power, to hold him in the assembly, and it is clear to all those who follow the situation and who are interested in the only change of Plenkovic guarantees and change of the mayor of Bandic and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205260	The 39th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205261	The amendment is not accepted in the light of the fact that the proposed amendment is not technically possible at all because, at the position or on the equipment activities, 358.5 million kuna of the planned 380.9 funds are not enough but are not sufficient at all. Also related to the hot water project, this project should certainly be analysed, elaborated and identified in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205262	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205263	Thank you very much. Today in the City of Zagreb we have a situation where tens of thousands of our citizens do not have hot water, 58 days after the earthquake. Whose credit is that? Is it an organized town, is it the merit of a mayor who doesn't know how to solve the problem after the earthquake where our fellow citizens for 58 days are washed with lions as if they were, like, living a hundred years ago, like we don't have a plumbing, like things shouldn't work out, like we shouldn't solve those who are responsible for it, and it's about the city's gas company, which has to solve the citizens of the city of Zagreb hot water, or gas supply. Of course, it would be much easier if there was no rope between HDZ and Bandic Mayor. Namely, the City Gasman is next to the coalition agreement and you will now be clear, which is why they do not give up support for Mayor Bandić HDZ, because they have received, for example, the City Gasman in the amanet and there are hiring party colleagues, friends, friends, etc. Instead of solving the problems of Zagreb and Zagreb, they are not fulfilling the most basic obligation that the citizens of the city of Zagreb have set before them, and therefore I have to propose these projects to the state budget and for this reason, for example, there is still no warm water in kindergartens and schools in Zagreb. With this amendment, I ask that this change be made. And I'm asking for a vote on him. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205264	The 40th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205265	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the development of a public water supply system in the city of Zagreb, which includes the reconstruction of the water network which is subject to the amendment, is part of the project Development of Water-Communal Infrastructure of Aglomeration Zagreb in the jurisdiction of the public supplier of water services Water supply and disposal Zagreb. It is a large EU project of a total value of €881.7 million without value added tax, of which 70.9% refers to the EU part, i.e. a billion 333.4 million kuna. The project provides for the reconstruction of a public water supply network worth 118.2 million kuna, and the project is in the final stage of preparation, as regards the very position in terms of the equipment of the material and technical means subject to the amendment, as well as for the previous amendment in terms of the lack of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205266	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and fellow citizens, each day the city of Zagreb loses 50% of its value on water. So we're paying twice as much water as we'd normally pay for it. Try to bring it closer, for example, some average bill for the water of the Zagreb household is 250-300 kuna. If we had a normal city administration, if we had a normal water system, we wouldn't pay 300 but 150 kuna. Every year, my fellow citizens, the other 2,000 kuna would be more to spend on your families, your household, your apartment, your house. Unfortunately, there is no money leaks in Zagreb, it literally leaks into the country. And every month, two days, in one part of Zagreb, there's a ruptured pipe going on, and then we don't have hot water for a while, or we have problems from the heat, and people are waiting 10-15 days for the situation to be resolved. Unfortunately, the city of Zagreb has ignored this project, i.e. the municipal infrastructure has not been invested for years, we must do so as soon as possible. It would be logical to issue certain guarantees to investors to fix the water network, and to reduce the losses and manage to settle the entire investment, but as the mayor of Zagreb does not do so, I propose this amendment to open a special item so that Zagreb and Zagreb would not lose an average family of 2,000 kuna each year. I'm asking you to adopt that and I'm asking for an amendment to this Monday's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205268	41st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205269	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205270	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205271	The biggest problem, when we talk about water infrastructure in the city of Zagreb, given the area covered is expressed in the area of the town district of Sesveta. For what? Unfortunately, in some parts of the city, they would be surprised, nor do people have water lines, or in 2020 they do not have a connected house or place where they live or live, not connected to the water supply. On the other hand, I think that the city's communal infrastructure needs to be resolved immediately. Unfortunately, I said, the financial situation in the city of Zagreb is such that the mayor spent almost everything. Instead of helping the opposition and asking Prime Minister Plenkovic here to help the opposition in the city of Zagreb to replace the incompetent and corrupt mayor Bandic, to do what is right, to make the city of Zagreb better, to enable people to have a better quality of life, to allow people to live better than they do today, HDZ chooses to defend Bandic to the end. Defend Bandic at the price that he is elected and punished in the elections and should punish HDZ because HDZ is responsible for Bandic being in power. On this side, citizens of the city of Zagreb must understand, only by changing the HDZ at the state level can the mayor Bandic change in the city of Zagreb. If the prime minister remains Andrej Plenkovic, the mayor Bandic will continue to harass us for another year, spend the money of Zagreb on any projects, run the city non-transparently. And that's why I'm asking, Mr. Vice President, for this amendment to be voted on Monday, I'm looking for a vote on it because I think it's at 22. In 2020, all Zagreb and Zagreb women deserve to be connected to the water network. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205272	The 42nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205273	With regard to the construction of water infrastructure in the City district of Bezovica, the public water supply system allows 85% of the population to be connected, and currently only 42% of the population is connected. When a real connection to a built-up public water supply system of 85% is achieved, further development of the public water supply system will be planned in the city's district through projects financed either from the EU or from national funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205274	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205275	Thank you very much. Here, you have also heard in the explanation of the secretary of state, which is why I ask that this amendment be accepted because 85% of the population in the city district of Brezovica and in some other districts there is a similar situation with the possibility of joining a water network. Which means that 15% is gone, 15% is in the city district of Bezovica about 2,000 people, there is no possibility at this time of joining the water network. It's the City of Zagreb, it's Europe, it's 2020? The same situation is in the Sesvets, the same situation is in some other corners of the city. A city with a budget of 10 billion kunas cannot provide its citizens with a water connection, a city that builds a wire for 800 million kunas cannot provide its fellow citizens with a water connection. Why ladies and gentlemen? And this is a question for Prime Minister Plenkovic, which is why he supports such management, which is why he supports Mayor Bandic, which is why Zagreb is second, which is why Zagreb and Zagreb are citizens of second order, which is why the state ignores the City of Zagreb? It is amazing that after 58 days of earthquake countries are unable to pass one quality law, the state supports a corrupt mayor, institutions are not doing their job when it comes to the City of Zagreb and the Mayor. And it is a shame that Prime Minister Plenkovic depends on Mayor Bandic. The message is very clear, we will change Plenkovic and change Bandic. It is the only thing that can allow the City of Zagreb to Go ahead and ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205276	Thank you. The 43rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205277	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of a public sewage system in the city district of Brezovica is part of the development project of agglomeration infrastructure Zagreb, which runs water supply and disposal, and we provided details within the reasons for amendment number 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205278	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is another amendment that leads to the rural part of the City of Zagreb that we have a normal city administration that takes care of its citizens and the even development of the City of Zagreb would not be necessary at all. But since we do not have, since unfortunately the City of Zagreb has an administration that lasts too long and which mismanages the City of Zagreb, I was forced to submit this amendment. This amendment is due to the management of the City of Zagreb of HDZ and the mayor of Bandic. It is amazing that in the city district chosen by Mayor Bandic on average from other parts of the city, the mayor Bandic wanted to make a compost, destroy the quality of life in the city's district, and 2,000 of our citizens in the city's district have no water connection. That's amazing, and that's what we need to talk about. Comrades and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have something to change. So the City of Zagreb deserves to move forward, the City of Zagreb deserves to be treated in the way it should be treated. At this moment with compassion that when you go out to Ilica, when you go out to the city center you see that the city is de facto still looks like a war zone, cranes on all sides, kicks everywhere, chimneys are coming down on all sides, ladies and gentlemen it's not okay, city hall and mayor of the City of Zagreb were supposed to help our fellow citizens get through the problems we found ourselves in after the earthquake and this epidemic That's not what happened, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205280	Thank you. 44th Amendment of Representative Željka Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205281	The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed to transfer funds to the regular activity of the University of the North to explain that EU projects of the University of the North are only recorded as revenues and expenditures within the State budget, and in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2020. The University of the North is excluded from the payment of its own and dedicated revenues to the State budget and the same is only monitored in the State budget due to a partial insight into all revenues and expenditures of budgetary users.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205282	Dear Representative Lackovic. Why don't you go next door, maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205283	Here's the thing. The Honorable Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, so this amendment was actually an attempt to correct an injustice that was done to the University of the North, clearly that you are not from the competent department of science and cannot criticise or go to you. What is crucial is that in the call for projects, investment in organisational reform and infrastructure in the sector of development and innovation, the University of the North submitted a project and as the only project was disqualified from the allocation of EU funds. The scientific research centre of the University of the North of Koprivnica has been reported, it is 15 research laboratories, and that decision has been lodged, the objection has also been rejected, but the ruling of the Administrative Court annulled the decision to reject the objection and the original decision itself. Therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds, as the competent authority, made a decision in its decision of 28.1.2020 establishing that the applicant’s objection was established, and in paragraph 4(3) of the Guidelines for Notifiers, says that investment in organisational reform and infrastructure in the research, development and innovation sector requires that the implementing body, so the Ministry of Science, is obliged to provide funding for the projects of that applicant that succeeded in the proceedings. So, in a particular situation, we have the need for national resources on this particular item, and since there is no indication that there will be a continuation of school and transportation needs could be avoided in this way. Injustice, I demand a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205284	45th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205285	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted because the inability to finance this project directly from the State budget stems from the provisions of Articles 48, 49 and 50. Law on pre-school education and education, which determines that an institution for pre-school education and education is established in the budget, i.e. in the budgets of units of local and regional or regional self-government, provide funding for the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions. Also, this means that building kindergartens is not an obligation of the Ministry of Science and Education but a unit of local self-government. I'd like to stress here, if you'll allow, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is from the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period '14-20. By means of measure 741, the financing of construction, reconstruction and/or equipment of kindergartens and through two so far tenders has been agreed to 170 projects totalling more than 900 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205286	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At this point we are moving on to one of the most painful topics in the City of Zagreb, which is the problem of the functioning of an education system that suffers and because of the lack of finance, I would say the frenzy spending of the city administration in recent years, which spends on everything just not enough, which spends 3 times more than what should be spent on certain projects and we come to the fact that Zagreb kindergartens and Zagreb schools do not have enough resources to function. I am forced in this way where I have proposed to allocate certain funds for most or all public kindergartens in the City of Zagreb and for some earthquake of the affected school which I will try to explain to you through these amendments, to show that the City of Zagreb does not meet the basic needs of its citizens. It is a shame that our children in the City of Zagreb and I apologize here because people think in Croatia that standards are somewhat higher in Zagreb. Unfortunately, the city administration is late with money and when it comes to hygienic needs and when it comes to diet and when it comes to private kindergartens, I'm going to talk about something else during this debate, here we are talking about a kindergarten called the Šegrt Hlapic and which we are predicting this amendment million kuna. What Mr. Secretary of State says, this investment and this money he's talking about, we and I believe other cities in the Republic of Croatia don't feel at all And we're asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205288	The 46th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205289	The amendment is not accepted since it is the same content only refers to another kindergarten and the previous... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205290	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are talking about Sesveta Children's kindergarten in the City of Zagreb, I have to point out that I am also a parent witness of the past now that my children have gone into a manger for 9 and 10 years, that this is not working in Zagreb and I want to change that and I want to fight it. So all parents who take their children to Zagreb City kindergartens know that these kindergartens barely combine the most basic conditions, that most equipment, toys, etc., bring parents themselves and thus help Zagreb kindergartens to function better. The great and sacrificial role is the employees of these kindergartens and I thank them this way. I have immense gratitude for the aunts who raised my children along with me and who work under impossible conditions. And it's amazing that these employees and aunts in kindergartens don't have the support of the city so they can work simpler and have better quality conditions. And that is why I suggest that we also single out a million kunas for the children's kindergarten in the Sesvedas in order for it to be further equipped and in some way more quality, to be a better place for children who attend it because unfortunately there is not enough room in the City of Zagreb for kindergartens, kindergartens are not built at all, and priority problems in the City of Zagreb exist because unfortunately the mayor invests in things that citizens don't need at all and very often overpaid several times. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205292	The 47th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205293	The amendment is not accepted, as is the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205294	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205295	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here are also a kindergarten and here I want to highlight the problem of private kindergartens since we do not have enough space in the City of Zagreb in kindergartens. The city of Zagreb operates with private kindergartens as nowhere in the normal world, which is that it has determined the amount of subsidy but with these private kindergartens there are no signed contracts. So no private kindergarten has the ability to know and plan normal business from 1 to 12 months. And what happened now in this crisis? Private kindergartens or private entrepreneurs who, with a certain subsidy and extra payment of their children, came into the situation that the city decided to suspend cooperation and subsidies without delay and thus questioned the existence of hundreds of employees in those kindergartens and made a difference and shared the children by whether they were going to a private or city kindergarten, although they are going through the same programme, according to the same conditions as they should be treated and treated, because in private kindergartens they also keep, or take care of them in a very good way. The city of Zagreb, i.e. the mayor of Bandic, since there is no money, has cut off the funding and divided the children in another way. I propose in this amendment that for, also for children's kindergarten, the butterfly in Zagreb also stands out, a million kunas because you will see now in the debate how many problems there are in the educational system of the city of Zagreb which has been particularly exposed this recent earthquake that happened. [[Intruder:]] Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205296	48th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205297	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205298	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205299	Thank you very much. This is about kindergarten in Sparrow. So this is in the western part of the city, and also, I suggest a certain amount, i.e. the amount of one million kuna, to be allocated from the budget and the people who are watching us now, who live in other parts of Croatia, are certainly wondering, so how is it possible that the city of 10 billion kuna budgets cannot service its kindergartens in quality quality, i.e. kindergartens in its own possession. It is possible because the mayor of this city unfortunately does not master money in a normal, transparent way. The priorities he is working are not the same as the priorities of our fellow citizens, i.e. they are not the same to the priorities of all those who live in the city of Zagreb. Its priority, for example, is to build a monument for 30 million kuna, the priority of the citizens of Zagreb would be to build additional kindergartens for 30 million kuna. The priority of Mayor Bandic is building a wire for 800 million kuna, instead of building a cable or adapting an existing 150, 200 million, and for the remaining 600 million kunas it is possible to build 20, 30 schools and kindergartens and thus raise the quality of the education system. So colleagues and colleagues, our fellow citizens, unfortunately the mayor of Zagreb does not manage our money the way he should. Everyone knows that in the Republic of Croatia, everybody knows that in the city of Zagreb, but what's going on? The mayor of Zagreb has a key lever and key assistance from HDZ, which makes it impossible for us to change it in the City Assembly. So it is crucial that we change HDZ and that HDZ no longer gives the umbrella to Mayor Bandic from state level politically and because of That's what I'm asking for to be voted on in this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205300	49th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205301	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205302	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205303	Thank you very much. This is about also, one day of En-Ten-Tini kindergarten in the city district of the Council, and I have to admit that it's amazing for me, here's that no amendment has been accepted by all of these that I've suggested. If the government wanted to show at least a handful of goodwill, it could have suggested at least one or five or 10 or 20 amendments. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not accepted any amendments, but therefore accepts that it holds a coalition with Milan Bandic in Zagreb from week to week. Everyone here wonders why the City Assembly sits in HDZ's Prgomett and doesn't do anything. Nothing works, people, after 58 days of earthquakes, Mr Drago Prgomet did not do well to walk or visit Zagreb kindergartens and schools suffered in that earthquake. It would be normal for the President of the City Assembly to do what is logical if he sees the centre of the city destroyed, if he sees the Zagreb educational facilities that have been destroyed, to visit them, to see how it can help, how the Assembly can help, unfortunately Drago Prgomet has hidden himself in a hole, a hole in his mind, and unfortunately does not help his fellow citizens at all. He even escaped from confrontation with Mayor Bandic over a virtual session of the City Assembly. Instead of electing MPs to discuss in the assembly, he obeyed Bandic's proposal to make the assembly virtual. So much for how far HDZ has gone from the mayor of Bandic and basically everyone knows in Zagreb that HDZ Patron Bandic, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205304	The 50th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205305	The amendment is not accepted since it is identical to others from 45th to this for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205306	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205307	Thank you very much. I am now calling on all those who are watching us because this will last and since HRT has a media blockade of HS and does not allow Croatian citizens to watch the transfer of Croatian, about the budget debate on Croatian television, unfortunately, it is for the first time since I remember that on TV, or on HRT transmission, there is no such thing, so I invite you all to follow us through Youtube channel HS or follow us through cable television. All the questions and all the suggestions that you think you should say about the problem that is on the agenda, the budget and these amendments that are proposed, feel free to leave me and set my Facebook profile on and Facebook page Gordan Maras. A colleague who's now asked one thing that's also illogical to me. So, when we look at the government of the Republic of Croatia, the elections are in a hurry because the state register is probably empty. At this point, the question arises when and how much support will be paid to entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs after what HS is abolished, who will take care of it, who will be able to ask questions on behalf of these entrepreneurs? Or it will be guided by practice as it is in the case of the City of Zagreb or kindergarten and schools in the City of Zagreb that HDZ is silent and that in some way it covers Mayor Bandic and that nothing is done de facto. The problem is what I believe is that HDZ is exactly the tactics, when HS disbands only then comes up with problems. I ask that investment in Markusevic be voted on Monday as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205308	Thank you very much. Uh, you're asking to vote, right? 51st Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205309	The amendment shall not be accepted, given that it is substantially identical to the previous one with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205310	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we're talking about kindergarten in Markuševec, it's a neighborhood in Zagreb that suffered huge damage to earthquakes, huge earthquake damage and de facto in the last 58 days since the first day or the second day when Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic visited Markuševac, from then to this day no one visited or visited them or asked. At this point, people are very concerned about what will happen to them and whether the state will stand behind them. Unfortunately, the message is that the state obviously does not want to stand behind them and does not take care of them. On that side, I think it's embarrassing, and I think we should show me a different attitude in HS. We should stand behind our fellow citizens, our citizens and say very clearly, the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb will be adopted, the law will include the restoration of kindergartens and schools, what I propose in these amendments, in order to put them into office as soon as possible, related to the huge damage they suffered in the earthquake. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia does not take care of that. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia has not singled out 10% in the state budget, not 1%, but 0.25 out of it, so 25 proms have been allocated to the state budget for 2020 and thinks that this will lead to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. That's why I have to ask for a vote on this amendment, too, because it's an amendment to one kindergarten in Gajnica that also needs certain investments. I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, if I could have another bottle of water since I'm the only one in the hall, I don't think it's a problem right now, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205312	Anything for you. Anything for you absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205313	And maybe we could think about a short stop, and we've been practically here for two hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205314	Ha, listen, you've, you've given so many amendments, you could count on it. We're going to the 52nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205315	What until I fall, we move on? Yeah, well, that's easier, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205316	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as compared to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205317	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205318	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm pulling this off and my colleague secretary of state is in a similar situation, and it won't be easy for him, obviously we'll still be here for at least 2.5 to 3 hours, so it would be good if you could give us at least 10 minutes to go freshen up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205319	We just had a break because of your kids, so we can't keep taking a break. You've given so many amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205320	It wasn't a break to go, to get a little fresh at least, to go to, to a place where you should go occasionally. So on that side, I'm asking you to take care of about 60-70 amendments to maybe give us a half-way break, but never mind, we'll move on. So it's the 52nd Amendment, a kindergarten "Suncana" which, unfortunately, in the City of Zagreb and other kindergartens is not in the best, best condition. We have a problem that the city administration and the budget that unfortunately is huge when you look at it on the side, but that ultimately doesn't end up in priorities that our citizens need. I don't think it would be necessary to normally manage the city budget, look for funds on these items, but given that it doesn't manage the city's quality budget, I think it's necessary to support certain, certain parts of the education system, in this case kindergartens that are in quite a bad state. Unfortunately, Mayor Bandic often doesn't tell the truth, we all know that, and around the education system and his head Lovric have a lot of, a lot of burden on their backs. So the system needs to be better and that's why we're looking for this amendment and I'm asking it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205321	53rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205322	The amendment is not accepted by reason as compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205323	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205324	Thank you very much. This is about kindergarten in Spain. I would like to say that unfortunately in the entire city of Zagreb, and even in the area of the town of Spain, there are huge problems, and I should also point out the quality when we talk about, kindergartens and schools and the quality of life and the quality of air, there are certain waste dumps that are being warned about for years, where the mayor Bandic ignores that citizens are in the vicinity and housing and educational institutions, waste dumps that rarely end up in a fire. In rare cases, it means every two years. As a rule, once there is a fire that is owned by companies that are very close to the mayor Bandic, and we see from recently the Minister of Health, Mr Berosha, that is, his sister is one of the people who appears as the responsible person in these companies. Unfortunately, I have to admit that there is not enough consideration in the quality of the neighborhoods, the quality of life in neighborhoods where there are very many children and on that side I think we should take care of it, or that this should also be invested in certain kindergartens to protect the health of our fellow citizens from the earliest days. So here, this proposal for certain funds that would be allocated for kindergarten in Spain in Zagreb, and it's unfortunate that we have to do it through the state budget, but since the city's budget is not working, that's how I'm looking for a vote on it because I think it's something that's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205325	54th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205326	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as laid down in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205327	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205328	The same thing as for the previous amendment. This is about a kindergarten in Maleshnica and what I must sincerely call upon you that unfortunately in the city of Zagreb the priorities of reconstruction after this earthquake, the catastrophic earthquake that hit us, are not the ones that should be. So instead of refurbishing schools first, to restore hospitals first, for those at least, the city of Zagreb and the state unfortunately did not start with a quality renewal, i.e. they have no concrete plan in which they could continue to do so. When we see citizens being organized and when we see funds being collected through certain auctions and donations, in order to restore, for example, Petrova's hospital where we have, of course, an old building where a large part of Zagreb and Zagreb were born, when we see that there is no response in that facility of the state after the earthquake, will not return the incubators because they are simply not planned funds and citizens are left to organise their own donations, then you are essentially sending a general message to everyone in the city of Zagreb and the Republic that what is most important in the country and the city is not important and on this side I think that the priority of renewal in the city of Zagreb absolutely need to be essential institutions and should be hospitals because our children need to be safe and need our parents and those who are sick, be sure that the damage will be restored as soon as possible and that at the end will have the most quality possible service given at the moment. At this point, unfortunately, that is not the case, and that is why I am also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205329	55th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205330	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205331	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205332	What amendment, excuse me? 55 [[/Intruder: 55.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Kustoshija.]] It is about kindergarten in Kustoshia and what I want to tell you here that I was relieved of one thing, which is when I heard that the city of Zagreb is late with payments for basic hygiene supplies of our kindergartens and schools in the city of Zagreb. So the city of Zagreb has a certain amount that stands out for every child who goes to school or kindergarten. This fee has been reduced in recent years. Unfortunately, that standard is not the same as it was a few years ago. The directors are forced to save and manage in every way possible. Although the funds are insufficient, unfortunately they are not paid in time and many of the directors, and those who are employees of these educational institutions, means that schools and kindergartens unfortunately have problems and cannot be met, they cannot meet the basic standards they should, especially under the conditions of the epidemic and enhanced hygiene activities that they should achieve. Because if we now have a situation to invest in hygiene in shops, in pharmacies, in all possible facilities, as if not in kindergartens and schools invested in this way, or we have no increased costs, or the city has not invested in schools, in order to make plexiglases for possible minor kitchen contacts, for example, etc., there has been no investment. It's like children are irrelevant, and that's why I'm proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205333	The 56th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205334	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205335	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, to be honest, there is no representative but me here and you, and that is why I want to send a message because I think this is important, as important as it may seem to be sizifian and in some ways unnecessary, but I think it is important to warn of a new normal in Croatia. So we're going back to normal life, we're going back to what our kids should have under normal, and they don't actually have. If it invests in, for example, shops, plexiglas or certain shops, additional disinfectants, how is it possible, for example, that the city of Zagreb did not increase the child's separation for hygiene supplies in schools and kindergartens? How is that possible? Why isn't that working? However, at this point, unfortunately the educational system in Croatia is not working. The educational system of kindergartens and schools in Zagreb is not working, and now we can patch ourselves up, ladies and gentlemen in a way that there are not enough children, that is, that few children, only 2.3% of children go to kindergartens and schools and then there is no problem. But what if, when, what if everyone goes to school in the fall? So how are we gonna plan this? Will there then be additional hygienic funds for supplies and will then lead the responsible, for example in the City of Zagreb, account for it? In order to get ahead of them and so they don't, because normally they don't take care of it, I have also proposed this amendment and I ask for it to be voted on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205337	The 57th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205338	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205339	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205340	Thank you very much. This is about the kindergarten "Ivana Brlić Mažuranić" and I think it is one of the biggest defeats of this crisis, this crisis, or the situation in which the Republic of Croatia found itself inability to return to normal modes of operation and operation. We're talking, or Minister Divjak is saying that the education system in the Republic exists, that it works, that children are getting knowledge, that children can do anything they would do and that there is no crisis, I don't think that's the case. Parents watch daily collapses in the education system, parents witness daily that our country is not functioning. Here, answer me here. Have Prime Minister Plenkovic answer me. Do we in the Republic of Croatia have education and education systems or do we not? Can we in the Republic of Croatia guarantee our children safe and quality education or cannot? I don't think we can. Because of this, and because we see parents not sending their children to school, they don’t send their children to kindergarten because they’re not sure that it’s done in a good way and that they’re safe there. On the other hand, I think it is also necessary to adopt this amendment in order to make sure in the end that in this part of the City of Zagreb, we have the certainty that children can be sure, that they can be kept and educated in a quality way, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205341	58th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205342	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205343	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205344	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment that, which, which is related to, to the "Medo Brundo" kindergarten and I would like to point out once again, that the situation regarding kindergartens and, and schools in the Republic of Croatia at the moment is not working, and instead of HDZ rushing to elections, should be rushed to do so, it should be rushed to return the normal situation to the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Since this is not the case, the HDZ only thinks about itself, given that HDZ wants elections at all costs because it thinks that if more time goes by, HDZ will have a weaker result and the only interest they have is in trying to extend the mandate to Andrej Plenkovic, but I think that they are wrong, that this will not happen but that citizens will see that intention, 90% of citizens do not want, 90% of citizens do not want elections in July, Andrej Plenkovic goes against them. 98% of citizens believe that the education system in the Republic of Croatia does not fit, kindergartens and schools, Andrej Plenkovic insists on the education system and creates an illusion that something like this is happening. On the other hand, as Andrej Plenkovic goes against his citizens, that Andrej Plenkovic goes against those who should give him confidence, in the end, Andrej Plenkovic will also experience the result he will experience in the parliamentary elections. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205345	Thank you. I didn't just realize if the prime minister would go to kindergarten, but fine. 59th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205346	He doesn't accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205347	He may not go to the children's kindergarten prime minister, but he should take care of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the City of Zagreb. He should be aware, I don't know if his children go to kindergartens in the City of Zagreb, but if they go then he should be aware of the situation that is there. And you should be aware, once again I will tell you that all Zagreb kindergartens, kindergartens and schools do not unfortunately have hot water, it is something that is amazing and that Croatian citizens need to know. So, schools in Zagreb City in 2020. Schools that are 100, 150 years old. They have no hot water and therefore instead of reacting and cancelling support for Mayor Bandic, he continues to support it. He's anchored. Mayor Bandic would no longer be mayor for a day without Prime Minister Plenkovic. So you could go on his shift. And on the other hand, it is obvious that it will be necessary to go to the mayor's recall to tell him what they think about his work and that will be the message that will eventually have to be understood and to which Prime Minister Plenkovic will force the citizens, i.e. Zagreb and Zagreb. And on that side, it is normal for me to propose, in such a situation, this amendment that will allow a part of our children to be safer and better educated in terms of what it is now and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205348	The 60th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205349	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205350	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the children's kindergarten "Radod" in Zagreb, and it should also be allocated to certain funds and what I think the citizens of the City of Zagreb see every day on the street, on how the city works, unfortunately it also works in urban kindergartens. When you look that after 58 days of earthquake we are not able to start the city, we are unable to clear the city or not us, but the city administration, that the state has not yet given a single kuna. These 20.000 kuna announcements for chimneys and water heaters are just announcements, and basically crumbs according to what our fellow citizens have already invested because they had to pay and move chimneys and water heaters and they had to sort out their apartments in some way. This rent announcement is also not a solution, people have for 58 days already many of them have no place to sleep, many of them have rented containers in a flower settlement outside of two homes and simply do not know when they will return there, many of them sleep in garages, many of them have rented containers to put a container next to their house and sleep in it. So there are so many problems and the mayor and the prime minister instead of solving these problems because they are there to solve problems they ignore and ultimately it is not worthy of the City of Zagreb or Zagreb and therefore we have to punish them. The irresponsibility they are showing towards Zagreb and Zagreb is unacceptable to ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205352	The 61st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205353	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205354	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The 61st Amendment is about the children's kindergarten "Paletac", and I want to point out once again the problem of kindergartens or private kindergartens that are pre-collapsed. Many of them closed down because the city was running late for months for benefits, or subsidies, that were to be given to these kindergartens. I know many entrepreneurs who unfortunately had to fire their workers, who had to close their facilities where the Zagreb and Zagreb women lost their ability to watch their children, where the standard of service fell drastically, and no one in the city even blinked. And there should be a final cut and there should be a new way of working in preschool education in the City of Zagreb. If there is a need to finance, subsidies in private kindergartens, and there is not enough kindergartens in the City of Zagreb with some money to raise children in these private institutions, then those institutions must have the security to sign their contract, they must know how many children they can have, how many children they have and what happens in situations such as the covid situation, so that they can plan their business and ultimately protect their employees and protect their business and in some way continue to do business after the crisis has stopped. In this situation, it's not possible. Unfortunately, the conditions that exist in those kindergartens are impossible to work with, and I think that what needs to be changed as soon as possible. And as for the Polletac kindergarten, I think it would be necessary to allocate these funds, and I will also ask for a vote on this amendment on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205356	The 62nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205357	It is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205358	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205359	Thank you very much. This is about "Beeica" kindergarten, which I also think should plan certain funds in the budget and in some way show that it is important for us not only in Zagreb, I am talking about other educational institutions throughout Croatia. It needs to be more isolated for education, especially for infrastructure and conditions in which our children are educated. It was an amazing recording from the other day that I saw on one of the journals that in Slavonia a school was preparing to build a hall for about ten years, never to go to the facility. And now the crisis caused by the coronary virus has led to the fact that the children, unfortunately, will not see the hall there for years. So in this case, the state does not care at all about the quality of education infrastructure, unfortunately it is visible everywhere, it is visible even in the City of Zagreb. We have schools that were built 30, 40 years ago, and the earthquake almost touched them. So they obviously had very bad anti-quake projects and what's important is that we have to take care of that when we do some facilities for our children they have to be absolutely safe. In the City of Zagreb, unfortunately this is not so, I will have a whole set of amendments that will refer to the objects that were killed in the earthquake, and I will especially explain to you, to see how much investment is really necessary in the City of Zagreb without investing anything. These 100 million kunas that the government has singled out are insufficient, and that is why I suggest that this million kuna be adopted through the amendment, and that is why I will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205360	The 63rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205361	He doesn't accept. Explanation as compared to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205362	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can clearly suggest whatever I want, and accept nothing or accept nothing. But the main thing is to accept Prime Minister Plenkovic is that Bandic is his most solid partner and that one without each other as in symbiosis, the cancer of singles and homes live, live politically, work, cooperate, and simply clearly that cooperation cannot be interrupted anywhere but in parliamentary and city elections. Since the parliamentary elections are now at the door, so we will have them obviously either 28.6 or 5.7 It is necessary to make changes in the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb that HDZ loses its support. Trust me on what I'm saying. This situation in kindergartens in the City of Zagreb, such a situation in schools in the City of Zagreb will continue if the authorities remain those who should not and should not behave, and the mayor Bandic is certainly not worthy of behaving that authority, everyone knows it, but the lex sheriff he also adopted in HS HDZ has made it possible for him to be protected practically as a personal bear. On the other hand, here I have to propose a certain amendment here, because unless I can suggest it, if I don't propose it, the situation will remain the same, or at least I won't, I won't have the opportunity to discuss it and, and explain it to people why I think some things have to change, and that's why I'm also asking for a vote on Monday and this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205364	64th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205365	It is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205366	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the equipment and adaptation of children's kindergarten "The Forest Strait", also in the amount of one million kuna and all those who are watching this transfer at the moment and think that in Zagreb the situation is great, just the opposite. So the earthquake that took place on 22.3. fully revealed the inability of the city’s administration or showed that there was no system at all. In the City of Zagreb, there is no system and there is a system that should enable citizens to live a normal life, which should be built in essence, I hope that, we will start to build and it will be established because this, this destruction, this system made by the mayor Bandic with the help of HDZ and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, is literally destroyed because in the City of Zagreb, almost nothing works. Citizens have slowly lost the will to address the city institutions at all because you can see that the city institutions can't help them at all. Not only have they not restored the City of Zagreb, but now that life is slowly returning to the City of Zagreb, people tremble in the most ordinary situations. For example, when a tram passes by their house, for example, no one in ZET thought that in Vodnikov, it was not very convenient to release tram traffic because the buildings could be further damaged. Because that's how this amount of amendment I've proposed is. It means that things work in Zagreb, believe me, and the number of amendments would be smaller. Since HDZ is the most reliable coalition partner to Mayor Bandic, we expect them to change the situation and help change it and vote on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205368	65th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205369	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205370	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is also about the “Peter Pan” kindergarten and the equipment and adaptation of the additional kindergarten. I don't know if everyone who listens to us now is aware that unfortunately in the City of Zagreb we have objects that still have in kindergartens and in the schools of asbestos boards. So records that are dangerous to health. It's a material that's been used a lot in the construction of the last century. For example, schools in Trnjanska Savica still have such facilities, schools in the area and kindergartens in the area of Vrapce, Subsident, Vrapce, they also have these facilities with, with asbestos plates and instead of changing it urgently, instead of even threatening to close these objects unless it is done as soon as possible, it is tolerated, it is made possible and unfortunately from year to year these projects are delayed, not to be created, citizens protested, parents, fathers and mothers protested, but no one hears them. So we have to solve this as soon as possible and that's why I'm proposing and some of these objects are included in these amendments, it would be easier to solve this if we get state support. So here I am asking you and asking all MPs in HS for support to do everything on Monday to correct one part of the illogicality that the City of Zagreb has, or which the incompetent city administration is unable to resolve and therefore I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205372	The 66th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205373	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205374	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am asking you that since we've come to half of the amendment to make after this amendment a little break to try to freshen up a little bit and start discussing further, yes, let's try to explain the other 60 amendments that are after, after, after these amendments, and here we are talking about the middle-aged kindergarten. So, it is, it is a kindergarten located in the area of the city district of Trešnevka-South and I think it is clear to everyone and someone might think that given the size of the quarter, to the size and number of children going there, there it is necessary to build more kindergartens, unfortunately and schools, not just kindergartens, given that the city is developing in that segment around Jaruna quite intensively, unfortunately the infrastructure that should follow it all is not so developed and there is a lot of scarcity in the development of the city and there is still a lot to be invested on that side. And in the end, I think that there is also a need to invest in existing kindergartens in this area with certain, certain money, but it is necessary to ban the construction of new settlements if there is no complete municipal infrastructure if there is no educational infrastructure, and in this case, that is exactly the case. So there's not enough municipal and educational infrastructure here, and on that side, I, here, suggest that this amendment be adopted as well. If he had been voted on Monday, I'd be happiest if I didn't have to propose it, but unfortunately, since this is about the city of Zagreb and the city administration's carelessness. I have to and here, in a way [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I ask you to vote for him. [[Employment: The 67th Amendment of Representative Maras.]] I don't know. Are we gonna take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205376	We'll take a 10-minute break, too, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205377	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205378	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205379	Thank you very much. This is about the children's kindergarten Prečko in the town of Zagreb also in the area of the town district of Trešnevka-South. I must say that when we look and very soon we will come to these changes that are affected by the earthquake and that it will take a very long time to bring them to their senses at all, that children can go there at all, and it may be good that at this moment it is not possible to run that whole system at all and that, unfortunately, it is not good because the whole system is suffering, or that parents do not have the possibility of quality care for their children and raising their children, but if children had to go to school and kindergarten now, it would certainly not be possible in full volume, and it would not be possible in Croatia, given the epidemiological conditions. So, it would be good if the government of the Republic of Croatia had accepted the SDP proposal to allow parents to remain at least one parent with children at home so that they could provide quality care not only for their children, if the child is up to 13 years old, but also to help them in a more high-quality education process. What we unfortunately have in this situation is that the government has found no hearing about it and now we have what we have. We have a problem that unfortunately only 2% of children go to kindergartens and schools and only 2% of children get some kind of Suport and services they should normally get, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205380	The 68th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205381	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205382	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205383	This is about an amendment relating to Matija Gubec's kindergarten, perhaps symbolically this amendment is important for the city of Zagreb, since we all know who was Matija Gubec and that in the 16th century he tried to correct certain injustices and fought against a single official who reminds me of the small and present city government, who at all ignored the needs of the then-Zagrebcans, although the system was different, but in the same way he rarely disregarded the needs of the citizens and the citizens would certainly express the revolution of their own, although not in the manner in which they expressed when Matija Gubec led the peasant rebellion and when people showed that they could no longer suffer terror. Now we're in democratic times and we can show it to certain things, whether it's a protest, whether it's it, here it is. In the city of Zagreb, you now have one action that shows protests against HDZ and Bandic mayors who do not regulate the city, so citizens are self-organizing the city and doing mini gardens. That way you can show a lot. Today-to-morrow when we begin to collect signatures for the mayor's impeachment, people will be able and thus to show that they are not satisfied with Mayor Bandic and HDZ and thus show, and the most important and simplest way in which we can show our dissatisfaction is by going out to elections and dissatisfaction for those who do not allow us to live quality and normal in our country and their city, so in this case I have to propose an amendment and symbolically, this is about Matija Gupac, so here, I had to tell this anecdotes from history because there are a lot of touch points, regardless of what... And I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205384	The 69th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205385	It's not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205386	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205387	Thank you very much. This is about Jarun's kindergarten in the city of Zagreb, too, a problem I was just talking about. It is a neighbourhood that develops in the residential area, and unfortunately does not monitor education infrastructure and municipal infrastructure and facilities. It is something that should not be anywhere in the Republic of Croatia, neither in the city of Zagreb nor in other cities. We must develop a city to be pleasant to the lives of those who live there and who come to live because only to buy an apartment or a house. You have to have a road, you have to have a water line, you have to have sewerage, you have to have garbage transportation, storage, separation, you have to have an education system, you have to have quality kindergartens, you have to have quality schools, you have to have, in a way, a safe environment, neighborhood stories that will allow people to enjoy living in their neighborhood. Unfortunately, when it is built without a system, when profit is the only interest, then what I am pointing out is that we have zero entire neighborhoods, and that in the end we do not have the possibility of quality education infrastructure and therefore it is also necessary to invest additionally in kindergartens and schools, and therefore we need to do so in the city of Zagreb, regardless of how many will not realize that in the city of Zagreb which should be the leader in that part, there is essentially no leadership but we cough for some other parts that are much poorer than the city of Zagreb. For example, I was in small municipalities that have better quality schools and better quality kindergartens than the city of Zagreb, which has 10 billion kunas of the city budget and therefore ask to vote on this amendment, also on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205388	The 70th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205389	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205390	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205391	Thank you very much. This is about the children's kindergarten of Zvončić and what I want to point out here is that the City of Zagreb, I sincerely hope that before the next year or before the local elections that will take place on the tenth 2021th year of May, we will have local elections that take place on the third Sunday of May 2021, to cross and part from this policy that we have both from this government and the city administration that we have in the City of Zagreb. So we can't lose another year, we can't wait another budget in a way that we have to propose so many amendments to warn about problems in the City of Zagreb, things have to change. So our maintainer, our mayor has lost all possible criteria, lost all possible support for Croatian citizens or citizens of the City of Zagreb, and simply decides to go to the castle of political history and we have to do so before May elections next year because if it is an alternative for another year to manage the City of Zagreb untransparently, to financially overpay certain services, to give money to its godfathers, friends, to those who spend this money two, three times more than they are using, I think that the city will have another 10 billion kuna damages by next year, and that is why it should stop as soon as possible. On that side, I propose this amendment, and I hope that after we get rid of Bandic, I will no longer have to propose such an amendment. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205392	Thank you very much. Since the esteemed representative Maras on behalf of the club asked for a break, then we'll give Well, a break, it's Croatian for a break. [[No, I didn't ask for a break, I just asked to take a little break?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205393	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205394	Then we'll go on without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205395	This is really incorrect. I think you should give me at least five minutes to go to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205396	I'm sorry why it's incorrect, and it's not correct that you're harassing all of us with your 100 and I don't know how many amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205397	No, you are harassing the citizens of the City of Zagreb with Milan Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205398	Excuse me, Mr. Maras' 71st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205399	Is this possible? You know what, he wouldn't give up any amendments now, if he had to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205400	You didn't mean it anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205401	If I have to sit here for another three hours, but this is really incorrect that you won't allow me five minutes to just go freshen up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205402	I'm giving you a warning because I didn't give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205403	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205404	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now you've given me your word. I think this is legitimate what I do, that I have the right to represent, whether it's good or bad, whether it's nice or not to decide Croatian voters and I'm aware of it and I'm ready to do it. I am not doing this because I think the situation in Zagreb and Croatia is good, but rather the opposite, and you cannot thus deny me the right and say that I am harassing you. I'm not harassing anyone, I've filed 120 amendments to the budget, which, as an agent, I have a right and a duty. Unfortunately, the situation in the City of Zagreb is such, not because of me, but because of you who support Mayor Bandic. I asked you culturally for five minutes off to go freshen up. Is that rude? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205406	You got five minutes off because your kids were in the office because you've got kids in the Parliament office and I've given them full understanding, past the Rules of Procedure five minutes so you can take care of the kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205407	Okay, but tell me I have kids when school doesn't work?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205408	As far as this is concerned, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, and you know it. Don't do comedy here all the time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205409	So when Vice President Brkic chaired, he often took breaks and allowed himself to freshen up, I say now I don't have a chance because you won't let me do it, so it's not correct and you know it's not correct. Thank you very much. Since you're acting like it doesn't make any sense for me to let you belittle me that way and we'll move on, even if I'm standing here till morning. This 71st Amendment, which is a children's kindergarten "Potočnica" and I also ask that since it is necessary to invest in children's kindergartens in the City of Zagreb that this amendment also goes on Monday, because unfortunately because of the coalition of Bandic and HDZ mayors in the City of Zagreb, things do not work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205410	The 72nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205411	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205412	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205413	Can I explain, Mr. Vice President, with my silence? Okay, now let's just keep it down a notch. So it is an amendment that provides for the adaptation and equipment of the children's kindergarten "Grigora Knightza" Zagreb in the amount of one million kuna and where I think it is necessary to invest in this kindergarten because unfortunately the education system in the City of Zagreb does not work because of the coalition of HDZ and the mayor of Bandic. So it would be good if instead of allowing me to, in a normal way, explain the amendments here, it would be good not to support Mayor Bandic in the City of Zagreb. This is what Croatian citizens would expect from you, what the Zagreb women and Zagreb women would expect from you. So, instead of terrorising the representative here, you step aside and move, you help us get Bandic Mayor out of his position so that he no longer personally harasses us with his management or management of the city, with his gods, friends, interest groups that led to the fact that the City of Zagreb is no longer what it should be, and that is that one dignified city that allows its fellow citizens and citizens who live here a quality life. If that were the case, that people here have a quality life wouldn't even need to submit this amendment, and I'm asking you to put it on Monday for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205414	The 73rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205415	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205416	Representative Maras. You don't have anything to say? Then we're going to 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205417	I have, I have something to say. I have something to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205418	And then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205419	There's just a little bit I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205420	And I'm sorry, I mean, if you're going to communicate with your cell phone then at the time of the conversation...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205421	No, I don't, but you have to understand that after three hours, it would be normal for you to give me 10 minutes to rest. So I had to look at something there, but simply because there's no possibility for five minutes then I had to use these 30 seconds to look at something. So there's just no possibility, this isn't a normal way to work. Instead of allowing me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205422	You're the one who caused it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205423	Well, but I can't influence it if someone's gonna give the amendment or not. So I'm in this, in this set from now on, 50 amendments. Instead of letting me rest, 10 minutes to look at what I have to do, you keep insisting that I can't go or freshen up and then wonder if I looked at something on my cell phone. It is the 73rd amendment, thank you very much for this relationship, about the adaptation and equipment of the children's kindergarten "Bajka" Zagreb in the amount of a million kuna which unfortunately is needed because of what is not working in the education system in the City of Zagreb thanks to HDZ and Mayor Bandić, thanks to Plenkovic and Mayor Bandić, thanks to those who have been harassing the citizens of the City of Zagreb for the last years, since the last elections, more than 3 years. and which do not allow Zagreb to be a normal, modern city that would meet the needs of its citizens and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205424	The 74th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205425	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205426	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205427	It is a kindergarten "Trnsko" in Novi Zagreb - west. Here, I'll do it now that Mr. Bukarica is from Split to learn some of these Zagreb neighborhoods. So it's about New Zagreb – the West, where it also needs to be invested in, in this kindergarten because there are also very many children. As you can see, the only investment that has happened in transport infrastructure in recent years I don't know how many years, investment in rotor, is an investment that ended in European funds. However, at the end of the draw, even for some time the rotor worked more or while the works lasted, the area around the rotor worked better than when the rotor itself opened, so it even asked whether this type of investment was needed, but better to invest than nothing. So there are many parts of the city district that need municipal infrastructure, educational infrastructure. Otherwise, the quarter is also famous for the fact that the school that opened several years ago died in an earthquake, there are damages regardless of what the youngest school in the City of Zagreb is. This tells you enough about another segment of the government of Bandic, which also new schools and new services, which he orders, ultimately does not deliver in a quality way. After all, we overpay things, and we do not have the service and quality we should have, and therefore I also propose this amendment, or I ask that it be voted on Monday and elected by the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205428	The 75th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205429	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205430	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205431	It's about "Sigget" kindergarten. It is a quarter which is also local committees and neighborhoods that are also located in the area of New Zagreb – the west, so, yes, it is also famous for that neighborhood because there is also a famous Hipodro, which, together with Mayor Bandic, wanted to push through the changes of GUP to turn the business around and do business in some way, and to enable investors without any excessive risk of huge profits, and to heal Hippodro, would destroy hundreds of hectares of the country on Velesaj and in some way reduce the quality of our citizens, the lives of our fellow citizens who live there. Yes, it is HDZ for you, it is the mayor Bandic and it is a signal to you what should be done in the parliamentary elections if we want it not to happen again in the City of Zagreb. So such power will never again be and exclusively if Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic submit to the sanctions. With that shit, here are the ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to accept this amendment and this million kunas to invest in this kindergarten to have a better education and to finally show us what's important to us in the City of Zagreb, and it's important that we have quality kindergartens, schools, hospitals, we don't care that we have a hundred monuments, that the money is being laundered, that it's overpaid, that we have an 800 million kuna cable carousel and all of what we have in the City of Zagreb. So I ask that votes be voted on both this amendment and that eventually, and on Monday, MPs support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205432	The 76th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205433	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205434	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205435	Amendment No. 76 refers to the children's kindergarten "Remetinec" it is unfortunately a neighborhood where one period our mayor spent certain months on. Since there are very many criminal charges pending, which are still at the pride of the HDZ, which supports it persistently and does not give up on its best friend, Mayor Bandic. It's something that's embarrassing. I would be ashamed to be HDZ, and if I were, it would be a shame on me anyway, given the way HDZ behaves, so I can't imagine myself in that position, but by any chance I would be ashamed to have a partner who has hundreds of criminal charges, who has dozens of open cases in the court in Zagreb, and then that's the problem Gordan Maras, who is talking here, who is still being said to be harassing me. So you're harassing the ladies and gentlemen of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, harassing us all together because you're holding the man who destroyed and destroyed the City of Zagreb in power, you're harassing us. And you should both be removed from power because you are agreed that Zagreb is in such a situation. I have the right to say it here, and I'm going to say it, even if I'm standing here for ten hours, I have the right to do it, and I think the citizens expect me to say it. And let Kazimir, as Kazimir Bačić and Bruno Kovacevic HDZ also defend HDZ And that's how they close down the media image so that as many citizens as they can hear. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205436	Are you asking for a vote on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205437	I'm absolutely looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205438	The 77th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205439	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205440	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205441	Mr. Vice President, are we going to take a break, it's been three hours already?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205442	I can't see, so if you want to take a break, I did offer a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205443	No, not that you give a break of ten minutes because I keep talking for three hours and I deserve to be given. Do you realize that in every job after a certain period, a man has the right to a break? What do you want me to pass out standing here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205444	Look, let's make it clear now. You can ask for a break at any moment and I'll give it to you on behalf of the club. The fact that you want some kind of break out of the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to go past the Rules of Procedure. If it's been a long time, you shouldn't have given you so many amendments first, secondly, you could have given so many amendments, not talking for every amendment for two minutes, though, exceeding 10, 15, 20 seconds, etc., all of it. So I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205445	The problem is you're sitting there. No, we haven't even touched this amendment yet, you took me a minute. Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205446	You're going into some dialogue with me that's completely against business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205447	I'm on my way because we should keep some normal level of communication. If I'm three hours on my feet, then I have...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205448	Well, you don't need three hours on your feet, you could speak much shorter for each of your points. And you've repeated 500 times the same thing anyway, so I think you could have done it, it's up to you. If you don't want it, you don't want it, I'm not stopping it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205449	Okay, okay. Let's move on then. There's no problem, you think you'll shut me up like that, believe me you won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205450	That's not what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205451	I will endure here as long as it takes because I want as many people to hear what HDZ and Mayor Bandic are like and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205452	She's going to the 78th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205453	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205454	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205455	This is about children's kindergarten in Zagreb, this is Mr. Bukarica quarter in the New Zagreb East, so you get to know the City of Zagreb a little while while you like to listen to it and hear that in the City of Zagreb, regardless of what the big neighborhood is, so Zaprudje is one of the oldest and essentially the first New Zagreb neighborhoods. So when the great mayor of the City of Zagreb, Veseslav Holjevac, decided to bridge Sava, otherwise the liberator of the City of Zagreb, you certainly know who was the first commander of the military city of Zagreb after '45, he later became the mayor of the City of Zagreb and remained remembered as one of the largest mayors who crossed the Sava River and made new neighborhoods and today has a beautiful monument not far from the NSB that just symbolizes it. And one of the first neighborhoods was the town district of Zaprudje, which also has a large kindergarten that also serves in a way that ensures that children from that neighborhood feel safe there and that they are raised together with their parents, but requires a lot of investment and requires that more investment be taken care of, or that Mayor Bandic and Director Lovric invest more money in it. Since this is not the case, given that the HDZ continues to hold Bandic in power and is trying to maintain this criminal power in the City of Zagreb, I also propose that this amendment be accepted, or that we all vote together on him on Monday, or that the representatives on him be made known. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205456	The 79th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205457	It's not accepted from the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205458	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205459	I'm going to the neighborhood next door to "Utrina" kindergarten, so that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205460	We've already crossed the 79th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205461	No, no, this is 79th, so it's a kindergarten, and it's also one of the newly-Greek neighborhoods that also requires certain investments. Otherwise one of the larger neighborhoods in New Zagreb, along with, of course, we will now see other neighborhoods that are there, so there are several facilities in Utrina and what I don't think has been invested in this kindergarten for years, or I don't think, but I'm sure. As it was not invested in most schools and kindergartens in the city of Zagreb, and I hope that those who behave in the city of Zagreb, which is HDZ and Mayor Bandic, are proud of not investing enough in kindergartens and schools. That kindergartens and schools in the city of Zagreb do not all have hot water, that children and schools are especially in the lower part, in the Lower Town, or lower, the older part of Zagreb are being restored to classrooms. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised, so it's easier to set up a job. If the job is up to two hundred thousand kunas, then you can exactly suggest from the city office which company will probably get a job and thus get schools, instead of rebuilding in one year, renovating for many years and three times or two times as much money as it should be. I hope that Mr. Vice President, as a representative of the HDZ, you are proud to support such a party in the city of Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205462	The 80th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205463	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205464	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205465	This is about a kindergarten that has 3 objects. It's usually the neighborhood where I've spent most of my life, it's my neighborhood, here, I say hello, if someone from Travno sees us by accident on TV. What I'd like to tell you here is that just as in Utrina's kindergartens, no matter what these neighborhoods were built in the 1970s, I, I'm pretty sure nothing more significant was invested than that period. There may have been some, certain furniture and some doactic means, but in some other things a lot, for example, carpentry and other things, a lot of these objects are the same as they were 40 years ago. So, I think the most aware of that is basically those who work in these facilities and how hard they work and how hard they do their job, the only thing I can tell them is that I thank them for not being able to work in such conditions. When you don't have the support of your city office, when you have to deal with the minimum resources you have at your disposal, it's really heroic that they manage to keep our children in, I'd say what kind of polite conditions. Since the funds are not enough, since Mayor Bandic and HDZ do not intend to change politics in the city of Zagreb, since they are the closest coalition partners, I must propose this amendment in order to provide additional funds for the education system in the city of Zagreb and ask that it also be voted on Monday at the last meeting of HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205466	81st Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205467	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205468	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205469	Thank you very much. This is about the kindergarten of Tratinčica which should also, as we have supported all these kindergartens so far, so should support him. Here's a colleague of Sladolev's, so there's already three of us, Mr. Vice President, slowly, excuse me, and Batinić is here, there's four of us. No one from HDZ, however, is obviously not interested in them. They are interested in keeping Bandić in power as long as possible so that we can share chairs in Plinar and other public enterprises and manage the city of Zagreb non-transparently and possibly share the jobs that are being done throughout the city of Zagreb. It means that this is not how business is overpaid, if it is not for the HDZ-Bandić client organisation that manages the city of Zagreb, believe me, this amendment for the Tratinčić kindergarten would not be necessary either. It's something we all know, it's something we all feel in the city of Zagreb and it's something that needs to be changed urgently. I hope that the citizens will understand that the 5.7 elections do not just decide what will be at the state level, but we decide what will be further in the city of Zagreb. If support is given to the current government, Mayor Bandic can sleep peacefully. Whoever walks wants it, vote for Andrej Plenkovic. Whoever wants it, vote for HDZ. I don't want to, and I'm sure that's not what the vast majority of Zagreb and Zagreb women want, and I'm sure that this change will happen regardless of what HDZ and probably those who are now managing the state think it's not necessary. And you can laugh, Mr. Vice President, but believe me, that's what's gonna happen. Here, I demand a vote on this, this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205470	The 82nd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205471	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205472	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205473	It's about Sopot kindergarten. It is also a neighborhood in Novi Zagreb for Mr. Bukarica, across the street from Središće, or nearby, one of the older neighborhoods in Novi Zagreb. Also, there are several facilities owned and hundreds of children kept there. I'm sure they have insufficient equipment and I said in the beginning, one of the previous amendments, unfortunately in the city of Zagreb as a parent, they can testify personally, most of the equipment, toys, they get parents themselves, or they assign after children simply grow up toys, they take them to kindergarten, and that's one solidarity that governments in the city of Zagreb, but which shouldn't be that way because we still pay 18% of the cut. Each one of its salaries stands out hundreds or hundreds or two hundred, three hundred kunas, in order to ultimately have the city to rely, or the city’s institutions, as a rule, on buildings. No, it should not be so, those 10 billion kunas that it does not leak on all sides, that it was not employed by city companies, by city administration, that the mayor Bandic has a little bit of morale about how he behaves, that he must have the HDZ that holds him in power, in the end, we would not all be in such a situation and therefore, I ask that this amendment also, I would very much like to have no need to vote on him, but since, behold, HDZ continues to insist on Bandic, does not give up on Bandic, I ask that this amendment be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205474	83rd Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205475	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205476	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about the children's kindergarten Zrna Zagreb, too, a million kuna provided for that kindergarten. When I look at how things work and how things move weakly and slowly in the city of Zagreb, I can simply say that I am sad. I'm not even angry anymore than how sad I am, so that there's a certain revolution coming out of that sadness, and I realize that even as I feel hundreds and hundreds of our fellow citizens, thousands and thousands of our citizens, and that just in the end it has to end right, that things have to change, and that's why you don't have to give up on this and that's why you don't have to talk about it, and that sometimes you point and go head through the wall, if you think you're fighting for the right thing. So sometimes you have to do something extreme to get people to hear your message. And on that side, I am willing to continue to propose and work and fight, not only for my city but for my fellow citizens and point to things that are not good in the city of Zagreb so that we can change these things together. We have no assistance from HDZ, we have no help from those who allegedly allegedly care about our fellow citizens, and they were not able to make a single earthquake law during this period that has passed since the earthquake, which is 58 days. It would have been good if they had used that time better, it would have been good to finally show that the interests of the citizens are most important to us. The HDZ and Mayor Bandic obviously didn't. The HDZ and Mayor Bandic are interested in milking as much time as they have left in power. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205478	84th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205479	The same is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205480	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205481	Mr. Vice President, how about a little break now, here's three and a half hours past?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205482	So you can take a break any minute, you ask for a break on behalf of the club, you'll get 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205483	No, I think if you gave five minutes, you'd really have to go to... I'd really have to go to the bathroom, I don't know how to explain it differently. [[I don't need a break right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205484	I'm saying, cut your speech short, here, you didn't have to use every time for two minutes and another plus time, you could, and you keep repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205485	Wait, is it possible that we...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205486	And you're always saying the same thing. So, you can, you can cut it short, we could've already finished it. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205487	Okay, so let's move on, thank you very much for the misunderstanding or behavior in a way that you can use your position if you don't do it to me, let's call it a little bit more incoherent. No, it means I can't do my job normally, but if it's necessary, I'll last another two hours, I'll stand here and do what I started in some way, and that's pointing to problems that are in the city of Zagreb and I won't let anyone interfere with me in any way in my right. And that's to say as many times as I want to, in whatever way I want to talk about what's wrong. It may look extreme, but trust me, it doesn't work any other way. In another way, it doesn't work because if it did, then we would listen to our fellow citizens, we would listen to Mr. Reiner, HDZ would have given up Bandic long ago, if there were no HDZ, there would be no Bandic, there would be no Bandic, there would be no HDZ state level, and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205488	The 85th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205489	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205490	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205491	What, 85? Yes, it's about Duga's day care, it's also about a million kunas. [[Intruder: Long.]] And we're about to get to the most interesting part that, I think, is most important, which is the earthquake of endangered objects, to see that at this point, my fellow citizens, not a single kuna, not in the city or in the state budget, is not meant for restoration of schools or kindergartens in the earthquake-affected area. And that's what we also have to point out here. There are 25 objects that we are about to process, to see that the problem is that the state in the state budget did not predict, which is not predicted by the mayor Bandic in the city budget, and this, not giving up, does not want to guarantee the restoration by law, or how it will be renewed in the coming years. Tell me now, everyone who listens, how will the city of Zagreb be restored, how will schools and hospitals be restored if the money in the budget is not foreseen? One hundred million kuna for 42 billion damages. Well, that's impossible. Who are you kidding? You didn't predict anything. You have made nothing possible and do not want to allow the citizens of Zagreb to have the security that the city will be restored. It's a shame and it just needs to change, it needs to show people to stand behind them. I, too, ask that we show the gesture, show the amendments, show the message that we are behind the citizens of the City of Zagreb, that we are behind the children of the City of Zagreb, that we are behind the history and culture of the City of Zagreb, that we will do whatever we can to make sure that the City of Zagreb functions as soon as possible and that all together living in the City of Zagreb will take care that, one day, the City of Zagreb will be what it should be. Unfortunately, in this earthquake, everything went missing in 10 seconds of an earthquake on 22.3. at 6am and the 24th morning it all fell apart. Unfortunately, we have shown that we do not have a city that works, we have shown that we do not have a state that is able to stand behind the City of Zagreb, we have shown that those who should be responsible for the functioning of the City of Zagreb, who should be responsible for the functioning of civil protection, for the crisis situations that we pay them for nothing, that our people don't know how to talk to, that this is all a farce system, that people call civil protection to record there some data that ultimately no one forwards, that citizens organize themselves, to organize groups, here's a colleague from Bad Blue Boys who then jumped in as someone who helps. So there were civil protection, where there was a mayor, where there were services that needed to be helped so that we citizens of the City of Zagreb who pay 18% of the cut finally felt that we had our city behind us. And then we expected that we would have a state behind us, but what, 58 days isn't enough to write a law, 58 days isn't enough to include gas in people's houses, if it's enough for Agrokor to make a five-day law to make those close to HDZ, who are close to Martini Dalic this I'm asking for a vote, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you and ask for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205492	The 86th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205493	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205494	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205495	Here, you see Mr. President how that works, or vice president, I've been saying 2.5 minutes longer than what time it was. Because you who run the session don't die to be focused on me. [[Intruder: Yes.]] And I've been standing here for three and a half hours, not giving me 10 minutes to go to the bathroom. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205496	Uh, shut it down, sorry, but that's all you're saying I have no reason to be focused on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205497	Is that okay, just say it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205498	Uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205499	You don't have me, so I'm talking here, the Rules of Procedure exists, time goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205500	Go ahead, speak up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205501	I just want to show you how hard this is for me to do right now, to work, and you don't give me a five-minute break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205502	It's all my heart that's breaking. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205503	Okay, don't complain if your heart breaks, then let's move on. The 86th Amendment is an amendment relating to the Cvrtak kindergarten in the City of Zagreb and also to separate it from a million kunas so that we also have a certain investment and a better situation for our children in this kindergarten. Finally, I must say that the situation that is likely to continue for the next few months until the new government is formed in the Republic of Croatia is such that nothing should be expected in the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb register is completely empty. So the mayor of Bandic is so picturesquely to say emptyed the register in the City of Zagreb and he is asking the state to delegate his duties. He would now continue to employ citizens to meet the basic needs. What I think we have to do is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205504	Now I'm going to warn you because you used your time, that's what you asked for last time. So are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205505	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205506	87th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205507	The amendment is not accepted as, with an explanation as for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205508	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205509	Excuse me, what amendment? I didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205510	87th Listen, you're not focused, you told me, so now I'm telling you. Focus on your amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205511	Yes, thank you, okay, it is about the adaptation and equipment of Trnorozica Children's kindergarten, also in the amount of millions of kuna and what I want here, especially here, that most likely next month, the question is that the Mayor of Zagreb will pay off the obligations he has not only towards kindergartens and schools, but towards all employees and in the system that includes the City of Zagreb, because the problems with financing are enormous. Debts from the session to the assembly session, in the last session virtual and imagine how illogical that is. So we in the City of Zagreb have a virtual session of the assembly instead of having a session like this where the representatives will say on behalf of the citizens what is bothering them. The 150 million kuna mayor Bandic has done his duties at the virtual session of the assembly, where people virtually voted, where arguments could not be openly faced, nor could anything be done to see whether this was necessary in the end and how that money would be spent. Unfortunately, that money won't go to education, kindergartens, schools, that money won't go to what citizens need. This money will probably go to patching up certain holes and what is the most regrettable money that the City of Zagreb spends neatly gets they and they do not have to wait for months as kindergartens and schools, those who do overpaid jobs, who draw money from the city budget and who, unfortunately, for years thus build their business empires and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205512	88th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205513	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205514	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205515	This is about Little Prince's kindergarten, and I also want to say, this is a particularly dear kindergarten because it's about kindergarten in the city district of Maksimir, which I'm pretty close to, and on that side I think it's a shame this, that I have to be in HS in a city that has 10 billion kunas to propose amendments to kindergartens and schools, but that's unfortunately Zagreb's reality. And once again I'm going to tell you, those who need to get the money, they get that money and they get it in advance, sometimes by advances, I'm talking about those who do the work and who are properly overpaid for their jobs. I'm sure no one's waited a day for a situation like that on a wire in Sljemen. There was no problem. That's probably where it finally paid off not on the same day, but probably the same second the bill came in. So some don't have money problems, get and collect their services, some don't have a problem with their work, if you need to charge more than you should. When I watch that wire jump from 150 to 200 million, first 350 to 500, so now who knows how much it's going to end, probably 800, then I understand why there's no money for kindergartens and why there's no money for schools. Why can't schools be restored? Because services are overpaid much more than they should actually be paid for, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205516	89th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205517	It's also not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205518	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to tell you that this, if this was about the adaptation of children's kindergarten in Maksimir, is a children's kindergarten Maksimir, also, in the area of the city council of Maksimir, in the Antun Augustinčić Aleja. I'm also quite familiar with the situation there. The problem we have in almost all kindergartens in the city of Zagreb and there is and I think the citizens of the city of Zagreb are really wondering why they keep quiet about it. Which is why I don't speak clearly and I get a lot of people who are employed in these facilities and I just can't figure out what the mayor and his city administration priorities are. I can't understand that the money for political corruption and trade has, I can't understand that there's money for 30 million kuna monuments to build companies with interest in the mayor, and there's no money to rebuild Zagreb schools and kindergartens. You can't explain it to anyone, so you can't explain it to me either, and probably not all the MPs who here in the assembly are listening to it right now can't understand it. What I think is inadmissible is that we who deal with politics in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which party we come from, must not deal with such a situation. It's amazing to me that the HDZ people know about everything I'm saying and that they're still letting Bandic do whatever he wants and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205520	The 90th Amendment of Representative Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205521	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205522	Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205523	The same thing, I think it is also worth certain investments, i.e. certain investment in equipment and certain things that could change in the city quarter. Money, of course, is never enough, or money is not there because things are being spent on the wrong, money is being spent on the wrong things. Services are overpaid, clients in the city administration and city companies are hired. It's being spent on amazing things, here, people need to know that, for example, during COVID, that this crisis, when it shouldn't have come out of the houses that virtual council meetings of local committees were being held, one of our council members in, in the area of the city council of Treshnevka-North, warned that it wasn't normal to get money to answer to an email. So the members of the local boards were compensated, that's the mayor's practice, and that's what tens and tens of millions of kunas are spent a year, so that based on the virtual session held, they get compensation. Since these things are spent on tens of millions of kunas each year, since these things are spent on the money that our fellow citizens pay through the cut of the highest in the Republic of Croatia, of course there is not enough money in the city budget to meet the basic needs for the education system, i.e. for kindergartens owned by the city of Zagreb, and therefore I ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205524	The 91st Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205525	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205526	Since the session has changed, Mr. Sanader, can we set a break of 10 minutes? I mean, if you're already changing, you're sitting, you're surfing, you've got nothing to do, then it would be correct to give me a break after four and a half hours that stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205527	You can give up some amendments so that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205528	Okay, then let's move on. Thank you very much. You don't have to give me a break. You do not have to give me a break, the 91st Amendment, is about the kindergarten of Vrbik in the City of Zagreb in the area of the City of Trnje, which is also intended to be invested in it, given that the City of Zagreb does not meet the necessary preconditions that should be met in order for the education system to have the best possible conditions in its kindergartens and schools. [[Intruder: Amendment 92]] Unfortunately, this is and the amount of the million kuna is 1,000 and 10,000 times smaller than the city budget has money. Imagine, here I propose a million kuna per kindergarten, 10,000 times the city budget has more money, and the City of Zagreb fails to meet these needs. I ask Mayor Bandic, the head of Lovrić what they spend money on, what they spend money on, and how they spend money? It's a laugh, it's funny, it's supported by HDZ, in the same way the government in the vast majority of counties should stop these counties as soon as possible and do everything in order for Croatia to finally be a normal country. That is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment on Monday to be declared by all MPs and MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205529	The 92nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205530	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205531	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205532	Thank you very much. It's about the investment and adaptation of the Vladimir Nazor kindergarten. The symbolism is because Vladimir Nazor was one of the Reverends of the President of the Croatian Parliament, meaning ZAVNOH President, who was on behalf of the national government in '45. the year came to the City of Zagreb when the city was released and took responsibility for some way the Republic of Croatia and on this side its bust stands in the Croatian Assembly and it is in some way very important that children know that this great Croatian poet from Brač deserves that and the kindergarten that they are going to, not only him, but primarily for the sake of children to be in better shape and that in some way we try to make those millions of kunas that I have proposed to use here in the best possible way. In those million kunas, Mayor Bandic dusts out of his reserve like this, we saw that he spent all the money that was otherwise intended for crisis situations. So, because he spent money from a reserve that was meant for crisis situations, unfortunately our fellow citizens didn't have spot support during the earthquake, the cranes were overpaid, the organization was nothing, people were helpless for days, weeks, and now we see for months. On the other hand, I am sure that all those who listen to us right now know what I'm talking about and know that Mayor Bandic has the money at his disposal not properly but quite the opposite in a totally wrong way and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205533	All right. Amendment 93 does not comply with the Rules of Procedure and the Budget Act Because you asked for a $3 million cut, and here you have reduced the million. [[I'm sorry, what do you mean?]] The 94th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras. [[- Yeah, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205534	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that it has been made before amendments 45 to 92.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205535	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205536	Thank you very much. This is about the squirrel's kindergarten, and it's also an investment of a million kunas, and what I can point out here is that I've simply decided to do towards everyone or try to get close to the people who are listening to us now because we're already getting closer to the end of all of Zagreb's kindergartens, and we're going to get to a kindergarten that I especially like, soon, where my kids went, to see that the situation is similar in more or less of all kindergartens. They're all in the same trouble, they're all in the same trouble, they're getting together hard everywhere, and they just didn't deserve it. The same thing is with schools, the same thing is with all the institutions that should be primarily calmed down or where priorities should be what's most important. So, the priority must be schools, kindergartens, and hospitals, or medical institutions that treat our elderly fellow citizens. Of course, it would be good if we had certain institutions not being built for years, for example retirement homes are something unfortunately in Croatia and especially in the City of Zagreb very little is done and our older citizens are most often in big problems. They are very and overcrowded, and when it is necessary to do it in quality and lead then it is usually when it comes to HDZ and Bandic there politically frames and eventually the dipl. archaeologists are involved at the head of the Retirement House in Split. So that kind of thing should finally be stopped and removed from Croatian politics, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205537	The 95th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205538	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as said for the previous amendment [[/Intruder: What amendment do you pardon?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205539	95.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205540	95th, this is about the adaptation and equipment of Marinić Children's kindergarten also in the amount of one million kuna. I was just talking about the chronic lack of certain institutions and I have to thank here all the people who are employed in the system and education in the City of Zagreb, pre-school education in the City of Zagreb, in the social care system in the City of Zagreb, in the institutions of the City of Zagreb that care about our older citizens mean retirement homes, in hospitals because without these people who make up for the rare and lack of funds there would be nothing. On this side, people must be aware that we owe as citizens of this city the gratitude of people who work very hard, who sacrifice themselves for us and who, in some ways, together with us, are, for example, when I talk about preschool education or school education together raising our children. It is not a simple job, they work in terribly difficult conditions and they themselves are in great uncertainty about what they will and how it will be because they do not know for themselves, they are not sure whether their founder in this case the City of Zagreb is behind them, when objects will be restored, shocks and traumas will pass along with us parents and children who are in these schools. So, on the other hand, if there weren't those people, believe me, these problems would have been expressed 10 times more. On this side, too, it can be a shame for the mayors Bandic and Lovrić to turn the City of Zagreb into what our education system has turned into. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205541	96th Amendment of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205542	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205544	Thank you very much. This is about Children's Daycare, otherwise all these kindergartens have several, several objects that are quite often on multiple locations, these are already kindergartens that are located in an earthquake-affected area. Many of them are in trouble, many of them damaged objects. It is a shame that the City of Zagreb does not currently have a single kuna secured for the restoration of these facilities. So, the City of Zagreb owns these facilities, the City of Zagreb has to rebuild these facilities, it has to be a priority, it has to be something that's already started. Unfortunately, the City of Zagreb has done nothing, the City of Zagreb, and I will take special care of it and I am looking forward to the city assembly, which is reportedly 9.6. I hope there will be no virtual city assembly again, that HDZ will again cover Bandic in the way he is covered by it now at this session, to see how much money in rebalancing will be foreseen for the restoration in the earthquake of damaged objects. Among them and kindergartens, between them and schools, not to mention health homes, retirement homes or institutions owned by the city, we now come to theatres and museums and all those institutions that the city owns. It's practically sad to watch, say, Gavellu Theatre or Comedy Theatre, the institutions of this city where you simply don't know when and how it will be restored and when it will be reopened. Such a situation is unfortunately also with kindergartens owned by the City of Zagreb and therefore I have to propose these amendments and therefore I propose this amendment and ask for it to be declared on Monday by the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205545	Amendment 97, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205546	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205547	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205548	This is about an amendment for the equipment and adaptation of the kindergarten Version. So it's a kindergarten in the city district of Lower Town, a kindergarten that's very well known since my children went into it, which was badly damaged in an earthquake that took place on 22.3. at 6 o'clock and 24 minutes, which has earned that we already have a clear plan in which they will be restored, restored, when children will be able to start again, whether someone will start working on it or not. At this point there are no answers, there are no answers to how much money will be invested and how to invest in this kindergarten and whether we will allow the children to return to the facility they are used to, and of course the employees who work there to work in the facility where they have worked so far. So, we do not have the answers to these questions, as if the City of Zagreb is not taking care of it or on that side, it would be good if some answers were sent to the congregation of 9.6. Since there are no such answers and I doubt that there will be others but in the Croatian Assembly this amendment and try at least to secure minimum funds to put them into office as soon as possible, put them into office as soon as possible of this object or objects damaged by the earthquake and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment on Monday as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205549	Amendment to the 98th Representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205550	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205551	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205552	Thank you very much. This is about adaptation and equipment of the Kresnice kindergarten, and I think it is also one of the objects that needs to be further invested, especially because it was an object that was in the earthquake in the part of the city that was quite affected by the earthquake, it is about the Krajiška street in the town district of Lower Town. Of course, there's more of the victim's school, but I'm going to talk about it a little bit later, Frankopan Elementary School, which has suffered some serious damage, has a red sticker, and on the other hand, I think it's going to take a lot more money to separate it from these million kunas than I anticipated for the Kresnik kindergarten. On this side, it would be good instead of having the Vice-President Lovric and Mayor Bandic deal with me and calling me when I warn about these problems to start dealing with problems that are in the pre-school education and school education portfolio in the city of Zagreb and to finally start fulfilling their obligations within the deadlines that they are and should be, which is that the bills are paid immediately, to raise the amounts provided for by pupils and children who are in kindergartens and to finally do everything in our power to keep our children safe, especially during this crisis and the earthquakes that hit the city of Zagreb, and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205553	Amendment of the 99th Representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205554	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205555	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is about children's kindergarten Source located in Gjure Deželić, so it is also, Street in Donji Grad where it is also necessary to allocate certain funds to equip the kindergarten, i.e. to make the situation in kindergarten better. Here we go soon after two more amendments, these are all the usual, thank you very much. These are all the amendments that are related to kindergartens in the Lower City and on the other hand these damages, especially from kindergartens in older buildings, are somewhat more pronounced and require faster adaptation or faster investment. I hope that during the vote on these amendments, MPs will take this into account, or that they will allow, as soon as possible, some of the kindergartens that are damaged in the earthquake itself to be put into operation. If I were in a position in the city of Zagreb in Milan Bandić, I would explain to people at the beginning when and what will be renewed and I would not put people in suspense. For example, people in the city of Zagreb today have no idea where their children will go to school at 9. i.e., they don't know when their facilities will be restored and whether they will be restored at all, in what way they will be restored, so there are so many unknowns and so many things should be known and so many things should be taken into account, unfortunately the city administration doesn't take care of it at all, and therefore, autumn proposed this many amendments and therefore I propose this amendment and ask that MPs be made clear on Monday, because I think they should do so in order to have as much a quality budget as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205557	The 100th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205558	He doesn't accept with reason as well as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205559	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205560	This is the 100th Jubilee. Are we gonna take a little break now? Here, it's been nearly five hours now. Mr. Vice President. Can we take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205561	You give up, you give up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205562	No, no, I'm not giving up. I'm just asking you after 100 amendments to take a break because five hours...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205563	Well, only if you're gonna give up on some to...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205564	Well, then I won't give up, so let's move on. Okay, this is about kindergarten The future is also, in the area of Lower City on Haulik Street, and this kindergarten is specific because I went to it. So the kindergarten that I left 40 years ago and believe me, I'm pretty sure there's nothing too much invested in it ever since. Otherwise, oh, sorry, no, no, mine's Mihanovic's. This is kindergarten up. But, okay, Haulikova, Haulika and Mihanovic, I went to Mihanovic, but it's the same object, so it's the same kindergarten, a kindergarten called the Future, no. So mine was in Mihanovic, and the other object is in Haulik. But, I mean, 40 years ago when I left there, I'm convinced that nothing special was invested in it, and in some way, here he is, symbolically the last kindergarten for which I suggested the amendment, we still have a kindergarten of Sparks, and then we'll move on to damaged facilities in the city of Zagreb, and I want all citizens to hear how many objects and how much money it takes to restore these objects and to get those money needed as soon as possible in the budget to have the opportunity to go into that renovation. Since there are no laws, given that there is no money in the budget, I doubt that's what's going to happen, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205565	The 101st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205566	It is also not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205567	Thank you very much, here's after 5 hours of discussion, or the interpretation of the amendment, and we've come to the last kindergarten for which I suggested the amendment. It is the kindergarten of Iskrica which is also located, and it is necessary to invest in it some money so that on the other hand, when we talk about kindergartens, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and tell all the parents in the city of Zagreb that this situation they have in kindergartens is not what they should have and that we simply should not agree as parents to a situation that refuses in Zagreb kindergartens and that we have an understanding of employees there because they are not guilty. The guilty and responsible are solely those who manage this money, which we are paying in the city budget and who manage on behalf of citizens with facilities in pre-school education. Mayor Bandic and head Lovric are guilty. Our partners are essentially our aunts and kindergarten educators, together we maintain some level in these facilities, equipment and all the things that children should have there and once again I want to get in touch with them, and I promise everyone that we will do everything to change the situation as soon as possible, in order to make it a prerequisite for us to change HDZ and Bandic. So that doesn't work without it. It is a prerequisite for us to move forward in Zagreb because HDZ and Bandic have cemented us, Plenkovic and Bandic have cemented us and they have weighed us around our feet to make the city function normally. Thank you very much, and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205568	The 102nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205569	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to preparing the legislative framework for the post-quake reconstruction system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in final activities on the launch of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the post-quake reconstruction project and strengthening the response to COVID-19 in the Republic of Croatia, which would ensure urgent investment or intervention for the reconstruction and reconstruction of education and health institutions of 200m euros. In addition, the final phase also includes procedures related to the application for the EU solidarity fund, which also expects substantial funds. A document on rapid damage assessment and support is currently being developed to support the withdrawal of funds and all other available sources, i.e. the EU Solidarity Fund, international lenders and donor conferences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205570	Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I'd like to ask you, here, I've sat down a little bit, and I'd ask you for the secretary of state to let him know that it's probably not easy for him either, the man's standing here for five hours, so, just give a man a break at least a little bit of stretching his legs or he sits down, to rest himself, this really isn't human anymore in what way we're working. Can you do that? If you don't want to do it for me, can you at least do it for him?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205572	And he wasn't looking for a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205573	He didn't ask? Does she have to look? I mean, that's not funny, I'm serious right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205574	Do you have an explanation for the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205575	Well, man five minutes, five hours already standing here. So come on, show some solidarity and compassion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205576	So you show some solidarity, pull these amendments, so... solve the problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205577	But this is real, this is really outrageous. I apologize to you, Mr. Secretary of State. It is not in my power, but look how insolent and insolent it is that this is how the Vice President of the Parliament humiliates both you and me and not that 10 minutes after 5 hours to rest. So never a session lasts like this in a piece, and especially when two people de facto stand for five hours and talk to each other and explain, this never happened, so this is something that's still invisible, and it's amazing to me, though, probably because it's about people who don't even have a shred of compassion to do something like this. So the 102nd amendment is about the restoration and arrangement of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, we all saw how much he suffered in the earthquake. The state doesn't take care of that facility at all, we haven't heard or know in what way it will be renewed, and so I propose in the amendment that it is planned and started to rebuild, thank you very much and I want a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205578	Thank you. The 104th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205579	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205580	Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205581	Like this. So this is also about, this is about the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, which has also been injured, we have seen all the pictures from Shalate. After a few days after the earthquake, I think that college is one of, I would say the best in the city of Zagreb, not only by quality but also by how much we need it now. So in this situation, we see for ourselves how important it is to have quality doctors, how important it is that we have quality epidemiologists and on that side I think it should be clear to all of us in the Republic, and that's why I'm surprised and I don't know how the state hasn't yet sent a message that even when it starts to rebuild that college. So that's why no money has already been planned, which is why you can't see it, which is why the health minister who reads every day at 2 p.m. how many people he's been sick, how much he's recovered, and how unfortunately he's gone. It does not say one day at that press conference when the Medical Faculty will be restored, when and how much money will be invested in it, when it will be invested in surrounding hospitals around that school in Shalata, which there are many, when Petrova street where our births are being restored, when Traum in Draskovic will be restored, when all those facilities that have suffered in the earthquake will be restored. That's what we're interested in. So we don't care now that a man reads us data every day and that after 50 or 60 days, those data seem more or less uniform every day. So now we're interested in when life will finally become normal and on that side, these are the answers we expect from the Minister of Health, and these are the answers we expect from the state and those in the country who decide. Since there is no renewal and there is no planned money in the budget for the renewal of the Medical Faculty, I have proposed and ask for a vote Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205582	Thank you. 105th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras 105 [[/Intruder: 104.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[No, no, 104, this is, yeah. Look how difficult it is, Mr. Vice President. After 20 amendments, you're confused, and I'm already at 100 and something and I'm standing here talking.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205583	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendment refers to the 5th high school as well as the previous amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the draft amendment 102, i.e. the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205585	Thank you very much. It is the 5th high school in the city of Zagreb on Klaic Street, which also died in an earthquake. I spent a lot of time there as a high school kid. Although, I didn't go to that school but I did go to 10th high school, but I spent a lot of time at 5th for a prosaic reason because she had a good cafeteria. And now, unfortunately, that school has suffered a lot and there is no answer from the city when and how to be restored. Since it is one of the oldest secondary schools in the city of Zagreb, one of the most quality high school in the city of Zagreb, the question that I think is justified when and how the city will begin to rebuild the facility. That is why I think it would be necessary to invest or invest some money from the State budget because it is evident that the City of Zagreb has no money, that the Mayor of Bandić and HDZ have spent all the money that the Zagrebs have and that they would now try to make more debts to the City of Zagreb, issue bonds I don't know how many years and in this way finance their financial escapades that we watch every day. I think the State budget should invest in this facility or in these facilities that died in the earthquake, now there will be a few more. And I think that's what students, parents and all those associated with schools in the City of Zagreb deserve. Since there is no money in the budget, since it is not planned in the city either, in the state I think that this amendment must ensure and ask MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to do so because it is only the right thing to do. Thank you very much, and Monday I request a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205586	105th Amendment of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205587	It shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205588	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205589	It is being restored and arranged, the arrangement of the school for nurses in the City of Zagreb who also suffered in the earthquake seems to be marked with a yellow label and that certain investments need to be made, in order to bring things back to normal as soon as possible. The story is similar to other amendments, there is no money in the city budget, Mayor Bandic and Director Lovric entertained their legal problems probably do not care too much about the education system, judicial problems primarily. On the other hand, and those money that should be given in regular, technical school maintenance do not give in time, late, directors manage in all possible ways. Unfortunately, such a situation in Zagreb is not since yesterday, and it probably won't end so quickly, so I think we should propose this amendment in the budget to help bring things back to normal as soon as possible. And unfortunately I see that the same thing that I see at the level of the City of Zagreb, which is that the HDZ has the support of Mayor Bandic with its hands and shares with him non-transparent authority I see it here and here, means there will probably be no voting for these amendments, I see that none is accepted, I see that the agreement is to go to elections as soon as possible with Bandic because there is probably a counter-service that will support the budget rebalance in the city assembly. All that says one thing I said at the beginning. The vote for HDZ is the vote for Bandic and the vote for Bandic is the vote for HDZ. If you want any change in Zagreb, do not vote for HDZ and Bandic. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205590	The 106th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205591	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205592	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205593	This is the 106th Amendment on the restoration and arrangement of the University of Health in Zagreb also damaged in the earthquake and on the other hand, of course, it is necessary to plan money that is not planned for any single facility. There are 25 objects marked with yellow and red label in Zagreb. None of the only financial assets are planned or secured. On the other hand, what I have to say is that these stories we're hearing here from a government official who says that, I don't know how the funds will be found, that they will be provided by European funds, by European funds, look, there's no sign of that yet. And instead of the state showing what's important to her, instead of the state going first, to say here we're going to give this school a million, we're going to give that 5 million for that facility, we're going to give Petrova 10 million for the hospital, they let the citizens do it. The people who are in the Palcic Association have raised 5 million kunas. It shows you how dysfunctional this country is, how dysfunctional this government is, how citizens turn to themselves. It's something we just can't accept and we're not happy with, and if we have to talk about it, to when we have to talk, to the end, to the point of being exhausted. So we can't give up and we can't deal with this situation. These people are not there for themselves, I mean Bandic, HDZ and Plenkovic, they are there for you and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205594	The 107th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205595	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205596	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205597	I'm sorry, I forgot the exact explanation. Can you read it to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205598	Sure. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final, in addition to the creation of a legislative framework to create this legislative framework for systematic action on post-quake recovery, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the final activities on the launch of the procedure for the conclusion of the contract of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the project titled ‘Renovation project after the earthquake and strengthening of the response to Covid-19 in the Republic’, which would ensure urgent interventions for the reconstruction and reconstruction of educational and health institutions of EUR 200 million. In addition, at the final stage there are several other projects with a application for the Solidarity Fund which I mentioned to you, a rapid assessment of the damages, the International Credit Institution Solidarity Fund and the Donor Conference. Here, briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205599	Thank you very much. So this is about restoration and orderly XVIII. High school in Zagreb and I have to say that more and more people are coming to me through social networks and asking me to comment and some things to see how many countries and cities are not working on the earthquake. So the city is blocked right now, and you can all testify that you're coming to Mark's square, you're just going through the city center, but it's not just downtown. So people are telling me why, for example, Savica or Zapruda doesn't cut the grass. So people just see that the city doesn't work every day, there are problems everywhere. Or the question that's now being asked. We all remember the disaster in Gunya, the state if it couldn't pass the law in 58 days now, and how it was then to pass the law and make sure the citizens know they're safe. Which is why, let's put it this way, which is why in this situation a huge elemental disaster in Zagreb in 58 days was not possible to pass the law, and then when there was a huge flood in Gunja we passed the law in a short time and started to rebuild. Why are Zagreb and Zagreb citizens second row? What's the HDZ experiencing them for? Why is that? Can anyone answer me? Why is it not possible to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb, and why is it not possible to pass this law? And on the other hand, the question of who will refund the money to citizens who have already invested 100,000 kunas in chimneys and the original reconstruction that started working in the City of Zagreb because people cannot wait, can't wait for the state to start. I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205600	The 108th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205601	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as set out above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205602	Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205603	Thank you very much. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205604	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205605	Thank you very much. This is about rebuilding and setting up schools for classical ballet in the City of Zagreb and what I must point out here is that the situation for Zagreb and Zagreb is humiliating about the restoration after the earthquake. So HDZ humiliated the City of Zagreb and humiliated Zagreb and Zagreb, and that Zagreb colleagues and colleagues will not forgive you. You'll see it in the election. You have made such a splash to the citizens of the City of Zagreb you told them that it does not matter, that Zagreb is not important, that our schools, that the hospitals in which citizens from all over Croatia are being treated, means that it is the place where citizens from all over Croatia are being treated, which in some way should be the centre of health in the Republic of Croatia, you have done nothing, there is no signal. You gave 100 million kuna in the 140 billion kuna budget. You've found 100 million kunas in your budget. And that's what the Zagreb and Zagreb women should say is enough. The secretary of state here explains that there will be donor conferences asking for money from the EU. Hey, I'm asking you what you've given now? You gave 100 million kunas of 140 billion. Well, you gave me more for not knowing what, what HDZ needed than what you gave for the disaster that took place in the City of Zagreb. You humiliated the City of Zagreb and Zagreb and Zagreb. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205606	The 109th Amendment of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205607	Amanda is not accepted for the same reason as already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205608	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205609	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment relating to the restoration and arrangement of the School of Applied Art and Design, in the Market of Marshal Tito in the City of Zagreb, not far from the HNK, which is one of the most famous and cultic schools in the City of Zagreb, unfortunately it was just as hard to forget in the earthquake of 22.3 this year which we will not, no one who has been in Zagreb or felt it for a long time. It means time 6,24 in the morning and date 22.3. We will not forget how the Mayor Bandic and HDZ treat us who live in Zagreb and how long it takes to return the normal situation to Zagreb and how long it takes for the citizens of the City of Zagreb to get any help and message, none of it will be forgotten. I don't know what you're hoping for in this election in the City of Zagreb. You think the citizens will stand behind you after you gave them a shower in a way that you have not passed the law, you have not made a quality proposal that could be discussed, here today is the one that is forced after a certain period put into the procedure so that the Law on Reconstruction can be discussed, probably that law will never see the light of the day or will not enter the Croatian Parliament and we will not adopt it like that. So what you did today is also a shame. You gave only for yourself this law in such a public debate that you could say that you did something, and you did nothing to the ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, and that is why the Zagrebans will not forgive you, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205610	The 110th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205611	He doesn't accept the reasons we mentioned before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205612	Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205613	Thank you very much. Here, after five and a half hours, we still don't have the right to pause, not me, not the Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President? I don't know if you heard what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205614	You have the right to give up, always.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205615	I'm not giving up, I'm famous for that, but I don't know if there's any compassion and normality to give us after five-and-a-half hours of standing and talking to take a break. We don't have the right to take a break? Mr. Vice President? So I asked if we had the right to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205616	I suggest you give up the amendment so we can all move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205617	All right, let's move on. So in 110th, the 110th Amendment refers to the reconstruction and arrangement of the hotel tourist school located in Frankopanska Street in the City of Zagreb, where significant funds should also be invested, given that the building was badly injured. It is located in the immediate vicinity and theatre "Gavella", the cultural theatre of Zagreb, and I think it would be normal if at this moment the City of Zagreb had already planned certain funds and started to rebuild that school and, and, and, the theatre "Gavalla", unfortunately none of them happened, nor on the other hand, and I must propose this amendment and appeal to all MPs in HS to vote on Monday, because it is obvious that the City of Zagreb will not be able to do so and in a way that would help the City of Zagreb this would be easier, and HDZ would at least partially wash its unclean conscience in a way that, supported by the mayor Bandic. So, at least we'd wash up a little bit of Bandic's support if we accepted this amendment. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205618	111th Amendment, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205619	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205620	This is about the restoration and arrangement of Brune Busic's school home in the City of Zagreb, which also suffered in the earthquake. The situation was, as I said earlier, that the City of Zagreb had no plans at all to rebuild from the earthquake, the state had planned 100 million kunas of 42 billion potential damage and so much, and here is how much HDZ stood behind the citizens of the City of Zagreb, zero commas or 25 prominences, and now it's been a long time, so it's hard for me to calculate this one out of my head, but it's negligible support, it's not support at all, it's humiliation. You humiliated the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb was never a city that begged and a city that was kneeling before anyone, but this thing to HDZ The City of Zagreb will never forget. You had money and you have money to give for the pirate agency used by Minister Beroš to work his picture, for that there is money, it is no problem to pay. How much did Beroš give for the agency?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205621	I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205622	Look at, at, at, at the portals. That's what money is for, it's not a problem to pay to be convinced of the infallibility of a man who tells us every day how infected they are, how cured they are. Unfortunately, for everything that needs money, there is no money, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205623	The 112st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205624	As before... similar. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205625	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205626	Thank you very much. This is a school called OŠ "Miroslav Krleža" in the City of Zagreb, the oldest school in the City of Zagreb, 190. She celebrated last Friday, a week ago, 190. The school celebrated. I am proud of that school and would be proud of, the city and the state if they had come and looked at, any of them, I think of those who are responsible, Prime Minister Plenkovic or Mayor Bandic, although I can hardly be proud of them, but come on, he would have partly forgiven them if they had come and looked at what happened to that school. In the cathedral went, Bozanic was promised help, okay, let it be restored, I don't mind, but there must be a school priority. It must not be restored, it must not be unrenewed OS "Miroslav Krleža", the oldest school in the City of Zagreb. Why didn't Bandic come to see school? Why didn't he look at those classrooms and the ceiling that almost collapsed? As he invested money in that school, lucky it wasn't Monday or Tuesday, maybe any kid would get hurt. So much security in our schools in the City of Zagreb and so much about 10 billion kunas and investing in infrastructure in the City of Zagreb education, that parents must fear that the child will be in school when there is an earthquake or not. They can be ashamed and we ask that all these schools be restored structurally so that they are secure from the earthquake, all schools that are damaged and all schools that are in the lower city of older, older construction, so I ask for a vote on this amendment to ensure “Miroslav Krleža” 10 million kuna so that the school starts with work and normal life as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205627	The 113st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205628	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205629	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205630	Thank you very much. Here it is, this is about a project that I'm asking to be introduced into the Ministry of Science and Education as a new position. It is the arrangement and reconstruction of the OS “A.G. Matoš," also in 10 million, out of 10 million kuna and to try to show that all the objects that have been killed in the City of Zagreb must be restored in such a way that our children are safe there when they go back to school. I don't want to think at all about having a more devastating earthquake than what happened, that our children are at school, that I want them to be safe and to reduce as much as possible the risk of a situation that could lead to injury or impaired health of any child in those schools. Schools in the City of Zagreb were not invested for years, and what was invested, you will see from the upper city high school which also received a red label, ha invested 10 years ago and not a little, in the roof, in the structure and what was done? Nothing. It crashed again and eventually the school was unable to work. Because those who work don't think about students, don't think about school, but think about how to get their playmates and interest groups to get jobs and the more money they make, that's their interest, that's the interest of HDZ and Bandic, and that's why there's no interruptions between HDZ and Bandic in the City of Zagreb, they're beautiful, they take money too well from the city budget, and they do this together. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205631	Amendment 114, MP Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205632	It's not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205633	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205634	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205635	And it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205636	And I can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205637	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205638	So, all this stuff you're saying and what I mentioned would just add when, I like what you said about, about schools that should be restored in a way that will be staticly strong tomorrow, and that doesn't mean overnight, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205639	Yes, I agree with you, it's not overnight, but, but the funds need to be allocated to send a message to the citizens at all that, that it's moving into some renewal because there's no message for any of these 25 objects, the citizens have no security. And if I didn't talk about hundreds and thousands of apartments in the City of Zagreb and tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who are not in their apartments at the moment, who are out of their apartments, who are waiting to return, to start any renovations, who have already invested hundreds of millions of their kunas, until the city and state have invested nothing yet, zero have invested. Of the 140 billion that the state has and of the 10 billion that the City of Zagreb has, zero has invested, and not only have they not invested, and that the citizens had to invest their money with the building manager, but also this building manager, public firm, the state-owned utility of GSK Zagreb, which manages 70% of the buildings in the City of Zagreb, has not been capacitated to organise the renovation, to organize the cranes, so that the city is not practically closed for 2 months. One of those same cranes walks around town and three times the same road closes. Not the organization as much as possible. And so I ask that people be sent a message of security, that people are told that through this amendment something will be restored, but HDZ does not adopt anything, HDZ is unable to show citizens that it is minimal with them, HDZ is not minimal, but is maximum with Bandic, it is its public and without Bandic there is no HDZ, and there is no Bandic without HDZ. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205640	The 115th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205641	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205642	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205643	Since I forgot to mention in the preceding amendment, this is here, in this amendment on OS "Jordanovac", and in the previous amendment, I was talking about the OS "Vugrovec-Kasina" which suffered a lot in the earthquake, and I also have to point out here once more before we end up with the amendments because we are approaching the end, that I especially have empathy and compassion with people who are, who are in the edges of the city. So, not only are they out of houses but they just don't know the same thing as the ones in the center right now, but they're much less talked about, and unfortunately, the media is interesting because the city center is always more interesting, I don't know when they're coming back and how they're going to go back to their homes. Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic visited the rural parts of the city once, Markusevic, Markusevic, Dankovec, Kasina, meaning those who are deeply affected by the earthquake. After that one tour, that was it. I guess that's where the lines went. And if not, there was no need to tell people there another message that they would stand behind them and that they would try to do whatever they could to normalize their lives as soon as possible because people were literally out of anything overnight. And it's amazing to me, this insensitiveness that this government shows to its citizens, which the City of Zagreb shows to its citizens. And that is why I ask that this amendment also be voted on Monday or that the MPs support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205644	The 116th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205645	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205646	Here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205647	Thank you very much. This amendment is about the "Ivan Filipovića" OS in Zagreb, where I also foresee an investment of 10 million kuna, also not only in restoring damage but also in additional things to be done in all schools. I just said a few amendments ago how it's done in the City of Zagreb. So, you have a school and you have classes and then instead of having the school restored all over the summer, let's say woodwork or windows etc., it doesn't go like that, but it goes one year one class or two classes, how much it costs up to 200 thousand kuna, of course with a 50% margin, and then next year the next two classes. It never goes more than 200 grand. Why isn't there over 200 grand? That's what people in the education office in the City of Zagreb know. It doesn't work because more than 200 grand has to go to such purchases, and up to £200,000 doesn't go to anything, but you pick out who's going to work for you, and that way we pay 30, 40, 50% more price than we should, and it's slowly being restored, the city schools are being restored more slowly. And that's why I suggested additional funds to invest in all these schools that I mentioned earlier. Those who have suffered greatly to restore them thoroughly, and I do not give up on them to be thoroughly restored. No patching ala Bandic and no patching that would put our children's health at risk tomorrow. These schools must be thoroughly structurally restored and these schools must be as solid as stone if a new earthquake happens by chance. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205648	The 117th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205649	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205650	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205651	Thank you very much. This is about OS "I.G. The blacksmith’. Also suggested, this one also, I suggest the same 10 million kuna. The same thing as in other schools, I think it's clear to everyone that without a thorough, thorough recovery of earthquake-damaged schools can't move forward in Zagreb as far as the education system is concerned. I think we should take the chance now and do as much as we can. So a thorough renovation of all these facilities not only cosmetics as it has usually been done so so far and using these years and a few days, miss out perhaps in these schools and next school year, try to sort of quality care in other schools, but when they get back in 2021. These schools must be examples, they must be made in the best possible way, and those schools must be an example of how other schools still in the City of Zagreb will be restored, which may not have been killed because they were lucky that the force may have been in another direction of the earthquake, but any new earthquake can cause some problems again. So this year should be used to prepare ourselves in the best way possible for a new situation and to do whatever is in our power so that this kind of damage never happens again, especially in case children are not in schools when an earthquake could happen and so I ask this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205652	Thank you. 118th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205653	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205654	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205655	Thank you very much. That, that's 118, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205657	This is about an amendment that I predicted would also invest 10 million kunas in OS in Chucherje. This one where the school is also significantly damaged and I think that, I think, it's a school that's in the rural part of the city, so it's a school that was near the epicenter of the earthquake and it's also hurt and it needs to be restored as soon as possible because I think it's possible because especially the thorny area on the slopes of the Medvednica, the epicenter was in Markusevec and, and practically everything that people are saying about that science, they're saying that the earthquake can happen now, and it can happen in 100 years. Now, in order to prevent possible new damages and possible exposure to the health of children going to those schools, I think we need to make a quality, quality basis and how, and we need to ensure that we are not as fortunate as now that the earthquake was on Sunday mornings at 6 and 24, but that children must be sure if such a tragedy happens by accident or disaster happens again, and therefore I propose this amendment and ask MPs and MPs in HS to support it and to vote on Monday when the government has not already accepted my proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205658	The 119th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205659	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as said for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205660	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205661	The 119th amendment is an amendment relating to the “Ivan Granja” OS which, which is also damaged in, in the very earthquake and I think it is necessary to allocate certain funds for, for that school and on the other hand, I think it would be normal if it had already made the city of itself, unfortunately not. And when you see who are irresponsible people at the head of the city, you should not be surprised, and I must admit that I am a little bit angry when I see that more about the restoration of the school is taken care of by the employees or teachers and the people who are employed in these schools than the City of Zagreb, the head of Lovrić and the mayor Bandic, who should be interested in the difolt for the system to start working as soon as possible, we must say that this is something that is scandalous for me and what is simply unforgivable. Also as unforgivable to hold the HDZ in Bandic's power and not let go. So I'm sorry sometimes to watch Mr. Prgomet fail in his office as president of the Assembly, that he would like to somehow get away, and in fact Plenkovic won't give him the HDZ, it's obvious that Bandic will try to keep it until the end. The problem I see is that there will be no happiness in the city of Zagreb until Mayor Bandic or Prime Minister Plenkovic moves away. It is obvious that these are the two brothers who are making problems for all Zagreb and Zagreb women. And on this side, you will see how it will go in the elections in the city of Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205662	The 120th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205663	As with the previous amendment, it is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205664	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205665	Thank you very much. It is a proposal that provides for 10 million kunas for the reconstruction and editing of Vladimir Nazor's OS. We were just talking, I have, thank you very much. Here, take this. Who, we were just talking about Vladimir Nazor's kindergarten, is now a primary school. I told you about who this is, which is a Croatian great, poet from Brac and one of the first presidents of this body, that is, the previous body of which is the Croatian Assembly, so that on this side of the investment, it doesn't matter what the school is called and by whom it is named, but investment in education, or in school, that the sooner the pro-functioner must be present. And as we approach the end of these amendments, I must say that I am a little saddened by the relationship between the chair and the government of the Republic of Croatia which, for the first time, usually when amendments are explained, is usually the representatives of the ministries, it is, it did not, on the other hand, I am sorry that HDZ or people who run this session see it as something that should not be pointed out, as if here, you see, the problem is when you talk about some problems, when you talk about this link between Bandic and HDZ, when you talk about non-investment and non-renewment of the city of Zagreb, then the problem is, and when you do nothing, then I guess it's commendable. It's the logic of HDZ that... and ask to vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205666	The 121st Amendment is the representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205667	With the same explanation as the previous one, it's also not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205668	This is about investment and arrangement of OS Markuševec and I think that Markuševec is a suburban settlement in the quarter of Podsljeme, the town district of Podslame which was essentially the meaning of the epicenter of the earthquake 22nd at 6,24am, and I was just saying that people who were unfortunately forgotten there were there. That they were forgotten by the city, that they were forgotten by the state, but we haven't forgotten them by the representatives who think about how to return normal life to our city, how to return normal life to the Subslame, how to return normal life to Donji City, to Gornji City, how to return normal life to all city neighborhoods, and also those who are less affected, but are affected by an earthquake, such as Maksimir, Tresnjevke-North, Chernomerca, meaning where they are also, old buildings and which they also need, and their citizens need support. The problem Zagreb sees and what citizens of the city of Zagreb see is that unfortunately it is not the reaction of those responsible are adequate. Unfortunately, it is not the reaction of those who should help the citizens was in the way that citizens expect them to because they obviously do not care whether or not they will help the citizens, that and how they will restore the facilities, whether and how they will restore the city of Zagreb, but only because they are interested in reaching the elections as soon as possible and trying to restore the mandate as possible. Now, that's something that I find unacceptable and that can never happen again, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205669	Mr. Gordan Maras's 122nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205670	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205671	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205672	Thank you very much. This is about the restoration and arrangement of OS Kustoshi, which also has a certain problem, or not a certain problem, unfortunately she suffered in an earthquake, and also needs further editing and on that side of the problem that I see is that the city of Zagreb and the state was unable to secure any money but decided to let it go, to solve itself. So it is not normal for citizens at this time, neither students nor parents at all to know that and when they will be restored to that school and when they will begin to rebuild the city of Zagreb nor the apartments and houses that are restoring themselves but, unfortunately, they have decided to send a message that none, meaning the Government and Mayor Bandic, that none of these 100, almost 130 amendments are acceptable and that they do not want to accept it to help Zagreb and Zagreb. There is no law, amendments are not accepted, no financial assistance is available, or has minimal. I say again, 100 million kunas at 42 billion is nothing, and it's better that they didn't suggest anything because they insulted the Zagreb and the Zagreb women, instead of helping them, they lit a rainstorm that would be felt for a long time, but the Zagrebs will remember it. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205673	123rd Amendment by Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205674	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation as it is for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205675	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205676	Thank you very much. This is about one of the damages that happened and the investments that I think I need in OS "Horvati", so that, unfortunately, the City of Zagreb does not invest in its educational institutions for years. So, I'll bet that some small, smaller places are much more willing to invest in their educational institutions than it is in a big city like Zagreb or a city that has a huge budget when compared to some smaller units, 100 times bigger, but it does not invest in, in its facilities or schools, cosmetically invests in schools and on that side all of this non-investment that lasts for years must ultimately lead to the result being seen. And the result is that when a certain disaster occurs then the damage is much greater than that, for years, they have tried to invest in these facilities. And on the other hand, if this never happens again, we need to make a systematic investment plan in Zagreb's primary and secondary schools and, and kindergartens to make sure that one day we won't have this kind of damage because I'm sure that the facilities were invested that this kind of damage wouldn't be and that eventually the students would come back to their schools much sooner and much sooner to start teaching again than they will now. And here's another suggestion here is 10 million kuna. I am sorry that the government of the Republic of Croatia, or those responsible, did not accept HDZ and Bandic because I think that would be correct and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205677	124th Amendment by Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205678	It is not accepted with an explanation as it has been said for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205679	Here's your representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205680	Thank you very much. This is about OS “J.J. Strossmayer" in Warsaw Street in the city centre. That school is special to me because I went to that school from 1st to 8th grade, so from 1980 to 1988. So I got out of that school 32 years ago. And it's really hard for me, and I'm sorry that the school was no longer invested, although some funds were invested, but, and what was invested, that's what I was saying earlier. So it's investing, but it's investing in the wrong way, in the unquality works, obviously, and in the end, the damage that's huge is going to happen, and eventually it's going to have to be put back into some things. So, I know that a few years ago that school was renewed, that kids went to another school, that it took some time, but it needs to be correct and to do the work the way it should be done with a guarantee that when you do, you do everything. You can't just do carpentry, and you don't do chimneys or you can't just work chimneys without making a carpentry. If these older schools are already being restored, which is one of the older schools in the City of Zagreb, then a systematic renovation should be done, and I expect it from, from the moment it starts. I am sure that Bandic will not finish those schools and rebuild those schools, but should be prevented from participating in it at all because in the end, it will eventually share his pyades again, and the question of what quality it will be, the quality of the works that will be done in those schools. On the other hand, I'd like you to accept this amendment. I'm saying, I'm a little bit subjective here, and I just had to say this because of a potential conflict of interest because I went to that school, but you can see that I've all acted the same way, so there's no conflict of interest, and that's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205681	Mr. Gordan Maras, 125th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205682	It's not accepted. It's not accepted. It's not accepted. It's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205683	Here you go, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205684	I owe you one little correction for the previous amendment. For those older students and citizens watching us, the school "J.J. Strossmayera’ took place before the '90s. She called "Vladimir Nemet", so people know this school because we in Zagreb had a situation, and not only in Zagreb, but throughout the Republic of Croatia that people who were heroes against fascism suddenly became unpopular in the '90s, so some schools changed their names. But here, so my school was called when I went to it not "J.J. Strossmayer, rather than called "Vladimir Nemet". And this is about the Upper Sparrow OS in the 125th Amendment, which also had certain damages, is also on the slopes of Medvednica, but not near the epicenter but rather slightly, slightly, slightly west. So on that side of the school should be invested independently and it would be good if it were a continuous, continuous investment, unfortunately this is how, we've been sentenced for a while to Bandic and HDZ in the City of Zagreb, but that's how it is, and believe me neither Superman HDZ will save me in the next elections in Zagreb, not this bimonthly Batman, not who, who has played Batman for two months, and now people will just see what health problems will come. So on this side, I look forward to people telling HDZ what they think of them and supporting Bandic and this non-transparent government in the City of Zagreb because I don't think the citizens will forgive you. Here, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205685	The 126th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205686	With reasons as mentioned above, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205687	Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205688	Thank you very much. This is about an amendment relating to the restoration and arrangement of the Fine Arts School of Silvij Hercigonje in Zagreb. The story is equal to some of the other stories that I have already told today, but I am glad that, here, colleagues and colleagues, although not too many of you, the most I heard about Zagreb kindergartens and elementary schools is Vice President Reiner and Vice President Sanader, if they were a little less on their cell phones, they would have heard more, but again, they heard at least what problems we have in the city of Zagreb and I hope that at least a little bit of the conscience that supports the Bandic who destroyed us literally destroyed the city of Zagreb. And it will take a long time, but Zagreb is proud, Zagreb is a tough city, Zagreb is an unruly city, if you remember this series, the Unruly City and if we have endured all the troubles that have reached us throughout history, I am sure that we will also rise after Bandić and HDZ leave the city of Zagreb. For the Zagreb and the Zagreb women, it is not a feature that you are born but how much you love your city and how much you contribute to it, how you feel and how you behave in it. According to none of these features, Milan Bandic is not a Zagrebian. He shames the city of Zagreb, and everyone who supports him shames him. He is ashamed of all those who allow him to steal Zagreb, to destroy Zagreb and to make Zagreb and Zagreb unhappy. But soon the time will come when we will solve this situation and when Zagreb will again Raise. [[Intruder: Time.]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205689	The 127th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205690	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205691	Here you go. The 128th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205693	It shall not be accepted with reasons as mentioned in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205694	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205695	Thank you very much. It is a very injured school in Vugrovec, Kasina, as well as for previous schools that is completely unclear why representatives of the HS who are from Zagreb and representatives of the City Assembly ignore all the damages that occurred in Zagreb elementary and secondary schools and kindergartens. And it will be interesting to see, after the HDZ generously gave out 100 million kunas for the reconstruction of Zagreb, I mean "hugely" under quotes. It will be really interesting to see how much money will be allocated in the city budget for the reconstruction of these secondary, primary schools and kindergartens on budget rebalance 9.6. when the resurrection of love between HDZ and Bandic is expected to be restored to the budget in order to confirm his eternal and unconditional love and support for Milan Bandic. If, in order to prove that these tiny trinkets that the unskilled president of the Prgomet Assembly were essentially forgotten and that love flourished. The only problem in this whole story is that we will not forget this love that we live in the city of Zagreb, which is the damage that HDZ and Bandic have done to us will not forget Zagreb and Zagreb and believe me, anyone who goes to the next elections, each next, and parliamentary and cityal, knows that the vote for HDZ is the vote for Bandic, and the vote for Bandic is the vote for HDZ. It would be best if they went together to the elections in one coalition not to torture people, because they know it's basically a voice for each other. So on that side, I'm looking for a vote on this amendment as well. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205696	The 129th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205697	With reasons as mentioned above, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205698	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205699	Thank you very much. This is about OŠ Petra Zrinski in Zagreb and it is a school that has suffered significant damage that has a red label to be restored because in the structure of the school it has not been restored, not for years but decades, or even more. A school that is normal for the City of Zagreb to be employed at the school and seek the way the school will be restored before the earthquake or improved. It is neither the work nor the "Petra Zrinski" school, it is not the job of any school in the City of Zagreb. The renovation and promotion of schools and investment in schools is the work of the City of Zagreb, the projects have to write employees of the City of Zagreb and they are the ones who are in charge of doing so, and the City of Zagreb is also in charge of putting out every kuna, not to be late 2-3 months with money for nutrition and hygiene needs but to be one day earlier and to see it as the Zagreb City's pages on budget implementation, so that there is transparency when it comes to the budget of the City of Zagreb. You won't see it when HDZ and Bandic are involved, but you will see it quickly, in a year when they are no more. And on that side, thank you for listening to me, Zagreb, and Zagreb. I see that people here from HDZ started gathering because they were waiting for this debate to end, they didn't care what I was saying, but everyone who followed me through streaming because HDZ closed the transfer through HRT, thank you for following me and trust me that we will continue to fight for Zagreb and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205700	The 130th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205701	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment because, within the pension insurance system, there is no right to pay one-time aid to pensioners. In addition, it is not technically possible to implement the amendment because the equipment activities were carried out by means of a material technical means with an amount of 358.5 million kuna of the planned EUR 380.9 million, so the remaining neutrino resources are not nearly sufficient for the amount provided for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205702	Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205703	Thank you. Thank you, thank you very much. It's about something that's meant by itself, which is that the pensioners most affected by our poored thefts of HDZ in the country, are being helped. And my proposal is to ensure that each of the pensioners with below the average pension is compensated and that this amendment ensures that this amendment ensures at least the better status of the pensioners. Unfortunately, HDZ does not accept it. From month to month, day to day, year to year, so I propose this amendment several times and I think it would be normal for HDZ to accept it. Unfortunately, it is not because, I would say, they do not care about the average pensioner, counterpart Bačić and others in HDZ worry about whether the elections will be 28 or 5 or 12 because they count that each week and day later the election is worse for HDZ. That's why they forced the assembly to disband on Monday so it wouldn't happen to be the 19th election. But trust your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, it doesn't matter when there's going to be an election. Here, I advocate it as soon as possible. So let them be 28.6. because that week before is still a holiday of 22., so a lot of people will connect, because I think that when the elections are held, they know what they're choosing, they know how you betrayed the Zagrebs, they know what's most important to you, they know that they don't matter to you, and on that side it doesn't really matter when there's going to be elections, and I'm looking for a statement for this amendment on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205704	The 131st Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205705	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons described above for Amendment 102, and further note that, when drawing up the State budget for 2020, the Republic of Croatia and the projections are '21. and '2. The Ministry of Health planned funds at the emergency intervention position on buildings and equipment of health institutions in accordance with established needs and assessment of the existence of risks of exceptional circumstances. Then the Government of the Republic of Croatia increased significantly after the start of the extraordinary circumstances related to the earthquake in Zagreb, and the pandemic of COVID-19 funds at that position, and it increased significantly, and it is the same when changing and supplementing it now, so the state budget for the '20s. and projection '21. And '22. rerouted to health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205706	Here's Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205707	Thank you very much. Here, first I'd like to thank those who have had the patience to listen to this for five and a half hours. People must be aware that sometimes extreme situations require extreme behavior. So this is never in a normal situation that the Republic of Croatia would never work. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia had proposed a Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, this would not have worked. If Croatian citizens had the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they wouldn't be doing this. If HDZ were more important to how Croatian citizens live, rather than how to save their chairs, this would not work. But since it's not like that, I'm gonna do this and I'm not gonna give it up because people need to hear who wants and who does it. On the other hand, indifference and insensitiveness towards a fellow state secretary and to me has personally shown what HDZ is like here. We haven't had a chance to sit down in almost six hours or take a break of 10 minutes. Now that's the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, dear voters, our dear voters, it's HDZ, insensitive, insensitive, selfish, the only thing that matters to them is them. I wish he had come to the Croatian Parliament for this amendment, Mr. Beroš instead of looking around, to make it look as beautiful as possible and as likable as possible, to say when he will restore the destroyed Zagreb hospitals I have suggested with this amendment to be renewed. These are questions that I'm interested in, how they'll reduce waiting lists, not make-up for the election. I want this voted out, thank you to everyone who listened and forgive me if one of these officers who stayed here a little longer had to do it and I had no intention of damaging them. But this is the only way you can fight HDZ. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much and every good thing. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205708	132. Amendment by MP Mirela Ahmetovic, Sabine Glasovac and Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205709	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, by renaming the same person as the Gender Equality Advocate at the end of 2019, it does not need to continue to be available at the position of the Advocate General for Gender Equality by providing funds for payment of the cash compensation to which it would, if it had not been renamed, have the right for 6 months in the full amount of the salary and then 6 months in the amount of one half of the salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205710	Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205711	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I can understand the argument, but I also believe that if we take these, slightly more than 400 thousand kunas from the MORH item intended for the spiritual care of ODRH members, we will reroute them to empowering an independent institution that cares about achieving the Constitution of the guaranteed principle of gender equality. Especially because we know that in times of crisis, women are exactly who, I will say, on the first line of defense, i.e. under a working obligation, are the majority in the healthcare system, nurses, doctors, cleaning women, teachers, teachers, so at this point, these months and a few days have been exposed to the wave of those dams in which most women, rare dames, and what we can expect in the coming period and in the recession is that women will be the most affected by recession, working in those areas that are low-paid, very often victims of violence, and I think that by empowering an independent institution of the Office of the Advocates for Equality, we would not be wrong and we would help this Regulation which will in any way have jobs in the coming period, to work on gender equality and to protect the most vulnerable groups of society in which children, but also women. Here, I'm sorry you didn't recognize, that you technically rejected the amendment, and actually the weight of this story is much, or the importance of this story much deeper, I'm sorry you didn't recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205712	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State. Now we've exhausted all the amendments. I'm finalizing the amendment debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.07 HOURS]] The first thing we will vote on is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and project plans for 2021 and 2022. I see a colleague called Lovrinovic, I'm guessing a request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205714	Oh, Mr. President, no, I want to first after you've changed us here, I'm asking you technically the problem is that colleagues and colleagues if they see my card because it's been walking. Here she is, thank you very much, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205715	Okay. Is anyone picking up for a break? No, I don't. Then let's move on. In addition to the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for 2021 and 2022, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-financial users for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 years for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Centre for restructuring and sales, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HAC, Highway Rijeka-Zagreb, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Karolina Leaković, SDP representative club, MPs Mirela Ahmetović, Sabina Glasovac, Karolina Leaković, representative Željko Lacković, representative Gordan Maras and representative Stjepan Curaj. We held the statement earlier at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. There's a review of the amendment, so let's get to work. The First Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205716	Mr. President, I would like to ask you to explain the way in which you will vote for monitoring and a large number of amendments, as I have submitted 120 amendments to the City of Zagreb and that it is a disgrace to what you are disbanding HS before the adoption of the law on the renewal of Zagreb. I don't think it's even business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205717	My colleague Maras, is that a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205718	No, it's not a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205719	Then please sit down. Don't. It wasn't me, I'm Mr. Jandrokovic, not Plenkovic. [[Intruder Maras: Mr Plenkovic, people walk like this with helmets.]] Have a seat. [[Well, it's the same.]] Comrade Maras, please sit down. [[/Intruder Maras: It's like I told Plenkovic. Shame, people are walking around Zagreb with helmets like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205720	So people do not have the possibility of a normal life in Zagreb, I ask you to try to do everything possible to bring the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb before the Parliament is dissolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205721	I'm not going to give you a warning today is the last day and I want to part with you in the most beautiful memories possible, so we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205722	I don't think your wish will remain answered, but fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205723	So we will vote so that, as every time, those in the assembly vote by electronic means, and those in the galleries and other rooms will vote manually. I'll ask the question, who's for, who's abstentioned, who's against it after some time since you've given about 120 amendments if I see after five, six times I'll go then with the question of who's for and if I see that there's not enough number then we won't vote for abstention anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205724	Is that according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205725	Yeah, I can do that, is it by the Rules of Procedure No, it's not an ominous one. It's an experienced one. [[Intruder Maras: So from an ocular approach to vote?]] So if you see 10 times then learn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205726	Look, I insist on voting on every amendment as prescribed, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205727	So it's prescribed as I say. So the amendment has to get most, if we see that most of you are gone, then we don't have to count it all together. Let's go in turn, the first amendment of the representative of Gordan Maras the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'd like some results. We're waiting for the results from other rooms, here they are. So 49 is for and 77 against, the amendment didn't go through. We are now going to the 2nd Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras, the government is against, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205728	Excuse me, Mr. Plenkovic, I, I, I ask you once again to try to do anything to have a complete review of who voted. There's nothing here but 40 people sitting in this assembly. So, if you're into democracy, Mr. Plenkovic, do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205729	Dear colleague Maras, I know that it will be very difficult for you in the next few days, but I ask you that from your collegiation to all those who sit here and those who are in the other room, and you see that you are here, therefore you have a privileged position, allow us to hold a normal vote today with the confidence of the relevant parliamentary services. If you don't trust these people, I don't think they deserve everything they've shown all these years, they've been doing it, they're honestly counting votes, and there's no reason why they'd suspect me of how they spend and do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205730	Do you have sympathy with the Zagreb and the Zagreb women?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205731	I do. Comrade Maras, I, for example, paid my entire salary for the earthquake March. I don't know if you did it. You want to answer here now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205732	You think people are happy with your payment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205733	No, I mean I'm on my own.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205734	Would you bring it, please? Don't, don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205735	Comrade Maras, come on, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205736	Mr. Plenkovic, please don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205737	Comrade Maras, I beg you, I will not bid, nor speak of it, but when you call me that, I am obliged to answer, and so do you answer what you have done except speak loudly. We're going to the 3rd Amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205738	I'll just be able to do it, and now that you've done it, you've done nothing. You didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205739	Dear colleague Maras, I am not going to say now what the HDZ has done and what it is, which has been paid by parliamentary representatives, ministers, etc., I am not going to bid on it, it can be checked and let it be compared to what you gave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205740	You did nothing to Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205741	Come on, sit down. How now? You're back to your real name again. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Thank you for that. The brain is still working. 3. Therefore, the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 47 for, 76 against, so he didn't pass. Amendment 4 again, MP Gordan Maras, the government does not accept, please let's vote. I'll get some results. Yeah, who's in? Excuse me. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 47 for, 76 against, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 5th amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 46 again for, 76 v, did not pass the amendment. We're going to the 6th Amendment of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 44 for, 76 against, did not get the required number of votes. Amendment 7 of the same representative, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 42 are in, 77 is against. Amendment No. 7th of the same representative, the government does not support him, does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 45 for, 75 against, it didn't go through. Amendment 8 of the same representative, the government does not support it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 40 for, 75 against, the amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. 9th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 39, 76 was against it. The 10th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 42, 77. We're going to the 11th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through, 40 was for, 1 abstention and 77 against. We are now going to the 12th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment has not received the required number of votes, 39 is for and 77 is against it. Amendment 13 of the same representative, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 14th Amendment of Representative Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 15th of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 16th same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 17th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 18th amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 19 of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 20. Representative Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21 to MP Karoline Leakovic, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 22nd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to the 23rd Amendment of the same MP, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 24th Amendment of MP Karoline Leakovic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment of the 25th Representative of Gordan Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26 to Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the 27th, it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP, but it's not valid because it wasn't submitted in accordance with the Budget Law. We're now going to the 28th High Representative Gordan Maras, the government is not accepting him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 to MP Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 30 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 31st of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 32nd Amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 33rd amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 34 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 35. Stjepan Curaj's representative and the amendment of the 36th MP Veljak Kajtazi was also withdrawn. 37th Representative Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 38th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 39th Amendment, MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 41st amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 42 to MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 43 of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 44 by MP Zeljko Lackovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 45. Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 46th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 47th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 48th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 49th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 50th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 51st amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of the 52nd same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 53rd Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 54th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 55th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 56th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. That's it for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 57th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 58 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 59th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 60 of the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the amendment enough votes. 61st Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 62nd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 63rd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 64th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 65th same agent, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 66th same, same agent Maras, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 67th Amendment of Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 68th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 69th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We're going to the 70th same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 71st amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 72nd same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 73rd amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. We're going to the 74th same representative, the government won't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 75th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. In 76, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The amendment of the 77th Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 70 and this amendment has not passed. 78th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 79th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 80th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 81st same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. 82nd same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of the 83rd Representative of Maras, who's in favour? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 84th same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 85th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. In 86, the same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 87th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 88th same agent, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 89. Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 90th legislator, Maras, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 91 of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 92nd amendment of the re-legislator Maras, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We are now going to 93 which is invalid because it has not been submitted in accordance with the Budget Law. We're moving on to the 94th Representative of Maras, and the government doesn't accept it either. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 95th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 96th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 97 of the same representative the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 98th again, Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 99th Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 100 of Gordan Maras MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. The 101st amendment of MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't get enough votes, so we're going to the 102st agent Maras, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 103rd Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. One hundred and forty-four representatives of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 105th, same MP, same attitude. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 106th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 107th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 108th Representative of Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 109th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 110th Representative Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 111 MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through, so let's go to the 112s, the government won't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 113, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. So we're going to 114, same agent, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed, so let's go 115, Agent Maras, the government won't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 116, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 117, MP Maras, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 118th, agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Not even this amendment has passed. 119, Maras MP, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 120th Amendment of the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 121, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Neither has this amendment. Amendment 122 of agent Maras, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We're going to 123, I have a feeling this one might pass, even though the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 123, no excuse, it was, 124, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 125 to MP Maras, the government doesn't accept it, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 126, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept him, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 127, MP Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 128, Agent Maras, the government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 129, same agent, government doesn't accept, who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment to the 130th Representative of Maras, just a minute, would you like to withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After 120 amendments, you have not accepted any amendments, this is a shame, you have betrayed Zagreb and I want... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205743	Comrade Maras, I've turned off your speech. You really want to get a warning, don't you? ... Dear colleague Maras, you're just as rude and primitive as your president, so please get out of here now. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Comrade Maras, I beg you to step aside. Comrade Maras, I ask you to step aside. And what do you want? Wait a minute, colleagues and colleagues, what fellow Maras, what do you want now? Okay, there's a procedure. [[Invader Maras: I want you to pass the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, that's what I want.]] Come on, don't yell. Sit down. I won't move. [[/Intruder Maras: Do you know what I want now?]] And well, nothing, then we'll vote on it, and you're standing there. You're so nice to agree to the pay phone, so here you are, and we'll vote. So the 130th Amendment of Representatives can't, no, no, so we won't. The 130th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government does not accept and vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Stoker, get out of the way, colleague Maras, please. So we have to work... [[I won't move.]] Yes, please, have a seat... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] All right, well, fellow Maras, you're here all the time in the chair, and I don't know that the chair is any different than your chair, so go, go sit down, go sit down. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] My colleague Maras today is the last day of this assembly and I won't today, I won't punish anyone, I won't throw out... Comrade Maras, leave. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] The 130th Amendment has not passed. My colleagues and colleagues, just a little fellow Djujic, just a little bit, so what's going on right now is one inappropriate play by colleagues Maras. So we work here in the assembly by certain rules... And this fellow Maras here on purpose is causing a situation like this here so I can call the guards to get him out of the assembly. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And I'm not going to give it to him this time because today is the last day, and I want us to part ways regardless of the differences that exist between us, regardless of the different political views, attitudes, character, qualities that we have as humans, I'm not going to let anything ugly happen here today, but I would like nice, politely, civilised as a democratic council to do our job and then go on a campaign and get as many votes as the citizens will give him and as much as they deserve. And I'm asking you nicely now to let us work here. Dear friends, what you're doing is really beneath each level, below each level... Okay. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Would you please sit down now? You won't, and what do you want, what do you want? ... Well, that's for sure, the next session will bring, yes, yes, yes, colleague Maras, please tell me, come on, you know when we'll bring you, let's tell you where you live in Zagreb, tell everyone if you live in New Zagreb or somewhere in the northern part of town, say it... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So because it's very important because you haven't declared it where you live, people think they live, no, no, you hide, you hide, you hide where you live because you changed your residence, and you didn't report it in your card. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Come on, sit down over there. What I told you, everybody knows it, come on, yeah. Comrade Zekanovic, please... Is that... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Let's keep working. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, do you accept that this is how we do things? I'm not gonna throw him out, because you'd be looking forward to me throwing him out, and I'm gonna leave him standing here. [[- I'm allowed?]] Forever, we'll bring him a chair to be here forever. Yeah, come on. [[- I'm allowed?]] Just a little bit, so we've got a few reports of an injury to the Rules of Procedure, we've got a colleague of Zekanovic looking for a break, I'm going to appeal once again, please that today the last day we don't have a scene of the MPs, this all but what happened isn't appropriate, it's not polite, it's ugly, we're sending a bad message, it's a bad picture, and I don't know why you're doing it. Okay, well, I suggest we still do these two amendments, so let's do it later. Yeah, well, I'll give you a break to the Rules of Procedure, and after that we'll [[Intruder: Stanku.]] to have this violation of the Rules of Procedure and then to take a break from a colleague of Zekanovic. [[/Intruder: May I have a break?]] So, the 131st amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The 131st amendment didn't go through either. Let's go 132, colleague Maras, how much did you pay for the City of Zagreb and died in an earthquake... as much as your party has paid for it, HDZ has paid a million and 100 kuna... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] 132. Amendment... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Tell me, tell me how much you've given for others, let it be said that people hear how great you are, big, wide, generous, compassionate, humble to the people you serve [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] how much from your salary for the citizens of Zagreb do you say it here on this pay phone? [[Intruder: Shame may be on you, shame may be on you.]] You didn't give anything because zeroes give zeroes. [[I think I should get a break.]] 132nd Amendment The government does not accept, MPs Mirela Ahmetovac, Sabina Glasovac and Karolina Leakovic, the government does not accept, please vote. Who's in? How much money did you give for the City of Zagreb? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Neither did this amendment, nor did we know how many colleagues Maras paid the funds for the City of Zagreb. But he'll say that when the election comes safely. So, what am I supposed to do, my buddy Grumpy, what am I supposed to do? Well, I wouldn't. Let's go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. [[I've been looking for a break for half an hour.]] Let's go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205744	Dear President of the Assembly, you have injured an officer. 238th Insulting MPs. You called the fight for Zagreb a primitive, that's the first. Secondly, it is your duty to secure order in HS, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. You recently gave Maras three sentences before he said the first, the second, the third warning and kicked him out of the session. Today, when he does what he does, you hold him, and you do not want to secure order so that we can continue this uninterrupted work. I ask you to be consistent, not to act pre-electionally and not to play some kind of brotherhood and unity at the end of the term. In the elections we will calculate ourselves, and here you stick to the Rules of Procedure, do not insult the MPs, do not call the fight for Zagreb a primitive and ensure order in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205745	All right, all right, come on. Come on, your time is up. So, fellow Voter, please ask your colleague to return to his post and behave, to behave in accordance with the rules that exist here. So, I didn't call the fight for the City of Zagreb primitiveism, but something that my colleague Maras told me until he came here completely inappropriately, but well, that's his style. That's what I called primitiveism, and that's what I'm behind. I'm not giving any warning. It's the last day. And I'm not doing it because you want me to. And let's all see, let's all see what's the difference in behavior, which is the difference in understanding democracy, which is the difference in understanding the procedure and how either one of us works. Let everyone see it today. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205746	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 33. A Rules of Procedure that describes the role and, and what the president of HS is doing, which is you, you hurt him because your behavior is below each level today, Mr. President. What you've just said to your colleague, the Voice would all seem to be that you've been acting precisely with your leadership for the last 10-15 minutes below every level that some censor is getting used to here with Mr. Maras instead of applying the Rules of Procedure, you insulted him that he is primitive, fellow Bernardic that he is primitive. and you who do not receive a large majority [[Invader: Thank you, colleague Djujic]] You're getting used to it with your colleague, Maras. [[Intruder: Comrade Djujic, have a seat]] And like a centrifugal. [[Intruder: colleague Giujic]] Apply Rules of Procedure Because your behavior is below all possible [[/Intruder: A colleague...]] Levels, particularly of the President-in-Office of the Assembly [[Come sit down, sit down now.]] There you go. [[Come on, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205747	Come on, have a seat. So what you're saying now, that's right, talking about you as a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205748	He's talking about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205749	So, you challenge, you insult. I'm trying to hold on as long as possible under these circumstances and jurisdiction and some order and procedure. But you, too, after your colleague, the Voice, show that you want the incident, that you want me to be my colleague, Maras, to order the guards to kick him out... No, so because people are intelligent enough to understand what your goal is, and regarding, you're, you don't understand that... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You, no, no, you don't understand anything. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You don't understand anything. You don't understand anything. When a man's competent to be rude doesn't mean he's weak, it doesn't mean he's weak, it means he can take much more than you seem brave, but in fact you're a deeply censor. So, I don't want to, I don't want to offend anyone, I don't want to offend anyone, nor was my intention being that what's going on is happening, and I don't want this to happen here. Now look at this man, so watch what he looks like, watch what he looks like. But let people see, I'm not just going to reach for disciplinary measures right now, I want you to see who's what, I want you to see it. And now it's perfectly clear who's provoking, who's not decent, who thinks it's normal to insult someone else, who thinks he can do whatever he wants, and that shouldn't be the case. And you, it surprises me most, so that you support this behavior and still ask me and ask me to throw your colleague out of the assembly... So come on, then give it to you, please, you are one, you are one club representative who is homogeneous, so make a deal, and you throw it out. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You can't, yes. Comrade Zack, no, excuse me, we still have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205750	Dear Chairman, I spent a long time in these benches and wondered if I would get an answer to the question when HDZ thought of returning 24 million kuna and I thought at least by the end of the term there would be an answer, but I did not reject it. Thanks for not coming to get me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205751	Okay. I didn't realize what you wanted to say. Comrade Bauk, you've also reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205752	Mr. President, there have been three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You made one of them because you called two MPs the primitives, which you shouldn't have, and by doing that, you should at least give yourself a last-day warning. So, your relationship with the court is settled properly with the MPs, not in the assembly. Secondly, either you implement the Rules of Procedure and give Maras a warning and what goes or don't argue with him, period. So either ignore him...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205753	Well, here, I suggest that he, okay...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205754	No, no, you're arguing, Mr. President. So your responsibility is much greater than his. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205755	Okay. Thank you. I won't fight anymore, I won't throw him out, I'll let him stand here. Here, that's what I can do. Comrade Glasnović, you are a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205756	I'm sorry. 238. How long will we endure the terror of these left wing parties? This is, this is... , insults the intelligence of every parliamentary.../incomprehensible/... normal representative of the Assembly so that the man was swindled with real estate and there played the saint and this other Serbian comedians who only know how to steal and kill, and they don't know how to work, that's their problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't terrorize us anymore, we're gonna go home. There are, there are real, Mr Bernardić, you are real, your left wing, anal climbers and rectal climbers all of you. You stole that from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205757	Okay. Let's move on, there's another colleague, Zekanovic, for a break and I'm sorry, my colleague Grumoja, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205758	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to ask you to make it possible to work in the Assembly, we are tired of our colleague Maras, these discussions between the SDP and HDZ, the reconstruction of Zagreb and the destruction of Zagreb have been made possible by you. Milan Bandic is your product, SDP and HDZ, he is your child, and the HDZ breeder. SKH's child and don't terrorize us anymore, you destroyed Zagreb, Zagreb needs new forces, non-compromised forces, not SDP and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205759	Okay. Now, colleague Zekanovic, you have the right to rest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205760	Dear President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. So here we're looking at a play between SDP and HDZ. We have suffered a Croatian-Serbian trade coalition all along, and here we have that peak of play. I will remind Croatian citizens that the SDP, counterpart Maras and you, President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, voted equally on all key topics in the assembly of this Parliament. About the Istanbul Convention that rocked Croatian society, you were like-minded. As for the Marrakech Agreement, you also cheered together to be ratified. As far as the Life Protection Act is concerned, you are also like-minded and the Croatian people are fed up with this play you play on a continuous basis. Comrade Maras, continue to be there, but neither you nor Mr. Jandrokovic will be able to fool the Croats that this is a change. Because you and each other are offering the same policy. You are not an alternative, Croatian sovereigns, Homeland Movement, that is an alternative, that is the third time and that, I am sure in these elections will make a great result. But I will repeat for all those who have forgotten, all of the key topics that have been shaken by Croatian society in the past term, around all topics were contrived by HDZ and SDP, and those of the non-insinuatives within the HDZ, they are eventually still, hoping that Andrej Plenkovic will put them on the list, voted in favour of his governments, voted in favour of the budget, but now it is a little late. Now it's too late to repent because you won't be on the list anymore. For the end, Croatian peoples, don't fall for Mr. Marasa, don't fall for Jandrokovic, because this is all one big show, they run the same policy, the politicians of hypocrisy both.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205761	Comrade Zekanovic, you're getting a break, and I really don't agree with what you said, but what I can do. Comrade White, you've also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205762	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Assembly, the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats is looking for a break of a year. For what? Because it is obvious that some of my colleagues, our fellow parliamentary deputies, have been denied what today will only be dissolved and I am doing it for them, we are asking for it because we deeply sympathise with a number of colleagues who, behold, today, sad faces are leaving the Croatian political scene. Even today, on the eve of Parliament's disbanding, we have the opportunity to see that many are attacking the only original and only true reform forces in society, and that is certainly the coalition of SDP, HSS, HSU, GLAS, SNAGA and other partners, who will, in the next parliamentary elections, move all of you, and not only the law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb, but also the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, the law on the termination of HDZ corruption and corruption of their tokens and all those who attack us today. That's not what HDZs do, not even you do it, but that's exactly what those who prepare their ground in the upcoming elections do to bring HDZ back to power. The strongest critics of both me and Maras and Bernardic and all of us on the left are the ones who see themselves tomorrow with HDZ in power. They won't get away with it, and I'm asking you to give them a break for a year so that you or anyone else don't have to put up with them in HS ever again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205763	I'm not gonna give a break for a year, but I'm sure of 10 minutes. Is there anyone else interested in taking a break? There isn't. Then we'll continue, here at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. Here you go, my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205764	President, after the break, and before voting on the budget, given the demands of NGOs and us, can you make sure that when you vote on the budget that after the vote, you can see who voted, so it's relatively simple, we are here in the Chamber, we will press, and the opposition and the ruling are distributed to 2 halls so that it can be recorded afterwards and published on the Assembly's pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205765	It'll be known for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205766	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205767	Please. It's 12.16 o'clock. All right, please take your seats and let's go. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.33 HOURS]] We have therefore discussed and voted in favour of the amendments, so now, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we are going to vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget. On the basis of Art. 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of the state budget, require most of all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the draft amendments and additions to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? You can publish the results. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 42 against the amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The budget law, we are now moving to a vote on decisions to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans of extra- budget beneficiaries for 2020 and the projection of plans for 2021 and 2022. First, I am voting on the decision to give consistency to the changes and additions of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 42 against, we have made the stated decision. Secondly, I am voting on the decision to give consistency to the changes and additions to the Croatian Roads' financial plan for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 79 for, 45 against, therefore, the majority of votes were made by that decision. Third, I am voting in favour of the Conformity Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 46 against, we have made the stated decision. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consistency to the amendments and additions to the Fund's financial plan for the protection of the environment and energy efficiency for 2020 and projections for the year 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most votes, 79 for and 47 against that decision. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consistency to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 79 for and 47 against that decision. I am voting on the decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the 2020 HZMO financial plan and the '21 projection. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. 7. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2020 and projections for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote is 79 in favour, 46 against that decision. 8. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of Autocesta Rijeka – Zagreb for 2020 and projection for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. 9. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan HZ-Pputical Transport for 2020 and the '21 projection. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. On 10th, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of HH-Infrastructure for 2020 and projections for '21. And in '22, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 79 for, 46 against, the decision has been made. And we're going to the 10th, sorry, we're going to HZ-Infrastructure now, we're going to the Legislative Committee's proposal, I'm voting on a proposal for a conclusion that reads: The HS section is authorised to carry out a revision of the amendments and addition of the State budget for 2020 with the representatives of the motion. and a projection for '21. and '22, and the proposals for amending and supplementing financial plans and outside of the 2020 budget beneficiaries. and '21. and a projection for '21. And in '22, as I've listed these 10 decisions and, therefore, they're doing a draft of that text, so please let us vote. Who's in? It's one custom we might need to change if we don't have it in this vote, but we do. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes we have reached a conclusion on the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee, resulting in 78 for, 12 abstentions and 19 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205770	Mr. President, since you're proposing a united debate, and the topic is extremely important, it's about budget rebalancing, then I suggest you at least extend your ability to speak for the clubs. I think it's extremely important, so here I am going to support a united debate, give it more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205771	Okay. Clubs that, clubs well, five minutes individual, clubs can be 15 minutes, okay? Okay, that's fine. Thank you very much. As we have decided, we will conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for the year 2021 and 2022 - In addition to the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for the year 2021 and 2022, it is also submitted: - Proposals Amendments and additions to the financial plans of extra-profits for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Croatian Highway - Autocest Rijeka-Zagreb - HZ Travel Transport - HZ Infrastructure and - Final Proposal of the Law on Changes and Completion of the Republic of Croatia. No. 946; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 39. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Article 2 shall apply. 211 and 212. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal of the State budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditure and expenditures are simultaneously proposed in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric, to give us further explanations of the proposal, several MPs reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First colleague of the Grumo for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205773	Your Honor, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before you moved on to this, the point of budget rebalance, so it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 143 and 144. I asked the Croatian government more than 30 days ago to answer why Belgium was removed from the list of countries that needed self-insulation. Belgium is a million-dollar country in Europe Just a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] timed out [[Intruder: No, time's up.]] It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I'm not responsible, Belgium is the country in which millions of people, the most dead of the coronarys, the political decision has been removed. [[Intruder: And that's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] from that list, I asked to be answered by that question, it's very important in the context and what my colleagues were saying, [[Intruder: Comrade Grmoe, your time is running out.]] A measure of self-insulation, that even at one point some bioterrorists, at another point can go to elections. [[I'm asking you to finish.]] We have a situation... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205774	I've got to shut you down because it's already gone, so you've been through twice the time, I've got it all figured out. You're being... I will again write to the government to answer that question, that is the authority I can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for Belgium, indeed, it has 3 times more inhabitants than Croatia and 100 times more dead. So much... is, therefore, 100 times more dead than Croatia, and 3 times more inhabitants. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just saying how good our measures were. Comrade Maras, you're picking up... I guess for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: And you're making political decisions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205775	Thank you very much. Here, after the epidemiologist of Grmoje and Jandrokovic who have established what is happening on the Croatian scene, I ask you, Mr. President, to stop this debate until Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic shows up in the Parliament because he should submit responsibility, this is my request as representative in HS that whoever is most responsible for the situation in Croatia come to HS and present the budget rebalancing [[Intruder: Excuse me, is this a request for a break, colleague Maras or what?]] In which, unfortunately, just a second, I finish my sentence. [[Okay, I'm asking you to sit down now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205776	I will right now, no, you have no right, this is business not what you're saying and what you're doing, and I will now call you as soon as we're done with my part of the Prime Minister's presidency that Mr. Maras of the Parliament wants him to come here. Here, I'll do it right now, and we can take a break, if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205777	Now I'm gonna ask for a break and I'll explain. ... Let me tell you what to tell him. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. [[Tell him what to say. Please, come on, come on.]] I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult and tell the Croatian public that Mr Plenkovic, who is after the elections to save his chair, is unable to come to the Croatian Parliament and explain to Croatian citizens what is changing in the budget, stands behind it as the most important document of his government. [[Intruder: This is now a request for a break?]] So, when it comes to budgeting, rebalancing or budgeting, it has to have a qualified majority, 76 MPs, and it's either there or there isn't a majority for his government. So he avoids that kind of debate because he doesn't have an answer. There is no answer for which there is no Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb in the city of Zagreb and there will be no reply today. There is no answer to the question why there is chaos in Croatian schools, which is why my children are now sitting in the office with me at work, instead of being at Croatian school, at their school, the oldest school in the city of Zagreb and learning and adopting knowledge. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is unable to organise a normal life in Croatia and restart teaching. There is no answer to the question why there is no more money in the Croatian budget for the economy, which is why no funds are provided for the continuation of economic measures in 6th, 7th and 8th months. So there's no answer to all those questions. Mr. Jandrokovic, you make fun of and make fun of and pretend to be arrogant here, but Croatian citizens are aware that everything you do, do not do for them, but do for yourselves. To stay in that chair, to keep him in that chair, to worry about Plenkovic and Jandrokovic for Croatian citizens, and that is pathetic, Mr Jandrokovic, and I am sorry that you act like the President of the Croatian Parliament. Keep making fun of her and keep making fun of her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205778	Please sit down. I don't make fun of anything, you make fun of the Rules of Procedure and the people who sit here every day, every day, every day. You're one of the agents who keeps doing the incidents. And don't tell me to make fun of myself and I'm proud because that's not who I am. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205779	Article 238, so Mr. President, you have no right to share qualifications, you are the first among equals. You have no right to qualify your representatives and to give your grades and it's not funny. I told you, Mr. President, your chair is your only interest. And that's pathetic, that's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205780	Comrade Maras, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205781	And I am sure that Croatian citizens will especially in your case...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205782	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205783	...to identify what it is, and also to the case of Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205784	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205785	I'm asking you not to do that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205786	Comrade Maras, please sit down. Well, don't, you insulted me first, and then you tell me I can't answer your insult. It's the logic of one trapped mind that thinks that he has the right to teach each other lessons and accuse the other of having to listen and keep quiet, and that's not how it works for you. Oh, come on. Okay, is there anyone else who's picking up? My colleague Grumo was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205787	I'm giving up this, I don't want to participate in this conflict, I've asked a specific question, I'm not a colleague of Maras, I've asked a logical question and I'm withdrawing this request for.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205788	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't continue at 11 o'clock. It's 10.50 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.01 HOURS]] I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Marić to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205790	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's the first sentence I have to say, at least so far in my personal term as Minister of Finance, I've never come before you with a budget rebalance in the first half of the year, but this time, the crown has done its part, so it's kind of brought us back together in the 5th month. Here, in any case, as was the case on several occasions, discussions and talks in HS on the first round of measures, the second round of measures, inter alia, was adopted by the Government, a convergence programme, a document that is an integral part of the process called, you know well the European Semester, and we have in some way fulfilled our obligation to send to European institutions, notably the European Commission. But more importantly, it's a document that we came up with updated projections macroeconomic for this and next year and what's most important for the word are actually the key figures in these new projections. Given the knowledge, information, data, forecasts, global flows and everything we take into account in these macroeconomic projections, we have come to the conclusion that this year's economic downturn of 9.4%, so the GDP decline of 9.4%, and you know well when we represent the 2020 budget, then we talked about growth of 2.5%, means significant correction and what we all know very well, we don't have to be economists, we don't have to be macroeconomics, we don't have to be macroeconomics that the circumstances that the covid has caused, and especially the part about how we say this, the closure of the economy or the closure of the economy ultimately have effects on these indicators. All GDP components other than state spending are also negative, so starting from personal consumption, which is also due to all the imputements that we usually take with such projections is 7%, the decline in investment somewhere around 9%, the decline in exports of goods and services, so both goods and services, and 30%, in our projections, or as a base assumption, we put a drop in the number of foreign tourists' overnight stays by about 70%. So tourism as an integral one of our strategic branches is in these numbers of exports of goods and services, actually exporting services as such. These projections also provide for the decline of imports of goods and services, it is the eternal one I would call the topic of import dependence, so now in circumstances when economic activity falls, when personal and investment consumption falls, then we have a decline of imports, but it is certainly an element that we all need to take care of together in some other circumstances, not only of these, let us call them so crisisous. As for the assessment of inflation or the consumer price index for this year, I say again, not only on domestic elements, so here we are talking already well-known simultaneous shock that on the side of the first instance offers in the first step, and now a marked shock on the side of demand. However, global flows are also taken into account in the consumer price index. We all know and follow well what happens to the prices of some raw materials, energys mostly oil, so for this year, among other things, we put a negative sign back in the projection, so a mild deflation of 0.3%. The most important variables in addition to this move on the labour market are employment, unemployment and wages. As far as employment is concerned, a fall of around 3.3% and a rise in the unemployment rate is expected to be 9.5%. So, all these projections that we had brought in a week earlier under the Convergence Programme have served as a basis, and we have sufficient reason to go into the changes to both the state budget and the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which is an integral part of these two points, given that the debate is united. As for the fiscal projections themselves, so the revenue side of the budget, I'll just remind you that in the original form of this year, the state budget of the revenue side of the budget was foreseen at 145 billion kuna. Taking into account all these new macroeconomic projections that are clearly and inevitably reflected in the revenue side of the budget. So the revenue side of the budget dictates two basic, two basic facts or two basic segments. One is that we have put certain measures in place to help the economy and taxpayers, and in particular these are measures, i.e. measures relating to the postponement or partial, partial exemption from the payment of certain public taxes specifically direct, income tax, income tax and income tax. However, an even greater effect on our forecasts will be of course from the expected decline in economic activity this year, which will, of course, reflect on the revenue side of the budget. And now that we're going to do an item by item, but I'm going to start with these total figures, so instead of 145 billion 140 million for this year at the state budget level, we predict 121 billion 950 million. So 23 billion and 200 million kunas less than originally predicted. Of course, when you look again, the item per item, the biggest correction in absolute amount is again on the highest income of the state budget, and that is the tax on additional value, but we also see adjustments on all other forms whether we talk about profit tax, whether we talk about contributions, whether we talk about the excise system, and then some others. However, I think that in this rebalancing, of course, we will respond to all your replicas and comments, but in some ways we are more focused on exactly what we call in the tax revenue budget, so tax revenues and contributions. The waste side of the state budget, the waste side of the state budget, given the situation, the outbreak of the Covid epidemic and all its reflections and all its reflections and on the Croatian not only economy but the society of us as a whole, put one additional challenge, which is that, in relation to the intended expenditures and originally planned, there must be additional sources of funding from one side of the health system, so the need for additional procurements that originally no one could or should have predicted in terms of protective equipment, masks, respirators and all that was needed to preserve human life's health, which we all said very clearly at the outset, I would have said in the beginning and agreed that the primary objective or call it such a zero goal, but also some measures that were put in place among others to reduce or to so many possible neutralise the damage to our economy. Therefore, aid measures as we referred to them mainly as economies of the horizontal nature of measures relating to direct support to employers for the payment of part of their employees' salaries, of course, on the condition that jobs are preserved. So, you can see from, I would say her own name, but also the structure of the measures, so measures to preserve jobs and, of course, measures that should also preserve the standard of Croatian workers or employees. This measure, which is not originally envisaged, and when you add and add to it and the effects that the state will not only pay for the support of the original 3,250 and for the 4 and 5th and 4,000 kuna, but also all public contributions, in this particular case, are contributions. So, all together we get to the level of about 7 billion kuna, when you add these original millions, and today we're already 100 million additional for healthcare, and then we come to what we as a government have drawn out in this rebalancing, which is that despite these increased expenditures, increased payment needs from the expenditure side of the budget that we didn't originally plan, and you hear ourselves talking about amounts of over 7 billion kuna, on all other items of the expenditure side of the budget, we find savings and corrections or cuts in all resolutions to bring the total expenditure side of the budget to the same level as originally planned. And it was actually a great effort that we have made in recent weeks, and I will, of course, thank all my colleagues in government and government, of course, and the Prime Minister for supporting that our basic draft, or in some way, leading the fiscal policies that we've been doing all this time, is I going to remind you once again that not one more year, in recent years, those beautiful years without Covid, not one year have we broken the budget's expenditure. And when we had a better budget, and every year that was the case, all that extra income was being rerouted to tax cuts and tax evasion and public debt cuts in the Republic of Croatia. This principle, unfortunately this time we have no surplus income, we have a deficit, but we continue to retain this principle in these circumstances very challenging with great pressures on the dissipating side and we want to maintain and not penetrate the overall side, or the total level of expenditure. Thus, the total level of expenditure of the state budget remains at the same level as originally foreseen in the amount of 147 billion kuna as regards the state budget. What is also important to say is the financial plans or corrections of financial plans for 10 extra-financial users. So, their original plan is, when we add them all together, there was an excess of around 725 million kuna, according to this new plan when we go one by one, we can, of course, also during the debate, analyse the more detailed financial plans of all these 10, so Croatian roads, Croatian waterways, DAB, CERRP, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, HZO, HAC, Highway Rijeka Zagreb, Croatian Railways Infrastructure and Croatian Railways Passenger transport, their new deficit for this year is 2.4 billion kuna. So also at their level significant correction. When we consolidate all this together, add local self-government, so all 576 units entering the general state and according to our national methodology, but mainly according to the ESA 2010 methodology that is comparable to all other EU Member States, we come to the fact that compared to the originally planned surplus for this year, surplus. For the first time, the surplus was planned, three years in a row and we achieved 630 million kuna that the deficit in the general government's budget is expected to amount to 24 billion 843 million kuna or 6.8% of GDP. So I will repeat once again, 4 years in a row absolutely under control and consolidated public finances, noting that... a few days or a few weeks ago EUROSTAT also published the last data for 2019 that we also achieved a surplus in the general government budget of nearly 25 billion kuna, so this year in view of the circumstances and all the elements that I have explained brings us back to the level of the significant deficit of I say almost 25 billion kuna. The component of this plan, i.e. rebalancing and amending and supplementing the financial plan, are amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget closely linked to the financing account. The financing account so far and in some of my previous exhibitions if I were to present the budget, and I mean the good part and in the debates, it may not have been so much in focus, I think here I am now going to use these remaining few minutes to pay attention to it, and I believe that in replicas or debates a little greater emphasis will be placed on it. So a few figures on that side of the funding account are so what we say below the line, it leads to everything that among other things is the need to finance that year. We had an original funding account plan of 30.5 billion kuna which would mean the planned one again, a balanced budget and all the maturity of different types and instruments of our public debt, whether we were talking about long-term bonds, loans, whether we were talking about short-term, vault records as well as some other elements. This financing account, given the already mentioned deficit, but also some other elements that I will explain, is increasing by an additional 32.7 billion kuna and totaling 63 billion and 412 million kuna for this year. What I repeat, as I presented it at the government's session, and I will now say, if there is one good thing to be pointed out in these amendments and in addition to the state budget for this year, and that is the fact that we have already realised more than half of it. With the state budget being proposed, €35.6 billion has already been realised before the covid outbreak itself, you remember that on the domestic market we have issued the cheapest and longest in terms of the hand-holding bond on the domestic market. Three tranches totaling 15 billion kuna, with it being the shortest with a coupon, or with a turnover of 0.25%, the cheapest ever. And for the first time, we've issued a 20-year bond. We also had some other maturity in small arms. After the crisis itself and how it is between me and the legal obligation to report to the parent Committee on Finance and the state budget, and the HS in the meantime we have realised several transactions. On the one hand, with some of the largest commercial banks, we have made several bilateral arrangements totalling 6.1 billion kuna, an average maturity of about five years, on average about 1.3 to 1.5% of the annual interest. After that we also... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the bank to the bank, we'll explain everything later. Yeah, it's important we'll only do it later when you're replicating. After that, we also had the refinance of a large vault record that amounted to 7 billion and 800 million kuna last week, it was refinanced under conditions, meaning at an annual level of 0.06 so almost zero, and a few days ago we issued a bond on the domestic market of 1 billion 455 million euros per 7 years with an annual interest rate and a coupon of 0.75%. So it's kind of an integral part already done. What remains before us, so in this financing account is the continuation of our activities as on the domestic capital market, the projected activity and on the international capital market in terms of the issue of the euro bond because we cannot ignore the fact that in the middle of the 7th month, a billion dollars of international bonds, issued 10 years ago, as well as some other elements, are coming to us. We are also counting and the financing account provides for sources of funds from international financial institutions. All this time, we have been conducting an intensive dialogue with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank and some others, as well as of course with the EU. You know well that at the EU level under our presidency, unfortunately not as quickly as in our circumstances, but it is on certain instruments, so, among other things, if you have heard well about that programme, so-called. SURE English word krilatica or shortcut that practically replicates in translation this measure that we have put into office, which is helping to pay part of the salary or to preserve jobs for employees. It's all an integral part of this financing account, and that's what we predicted among other things. And only the last part of the funding bill do I know that there are a lot of MPs here who behave or have acted and are always connected to local self-government in the financing account we've predicted the resources of 2 billion kuna and 900 million kuna, what we've called a unambiguous loan for local and regional self-government units and what we pay off as we've already indicated ourselves when we've represented measures, depending on the possibilities of the funds we've come to, how the requirements arrive, how we process them so we transfer them. And it's also a very important part of HBOR. HBOR in these circumstances and all these measures that we have put into operation is an extremely important institution, mainly in that part concerning new credit liquid funds for entrepreneurs, so that these new programmes that have been put into operation, as well as the existing ones, as well as all the measures that HBOR has taken into account anyway, whether we are talking about moratorium and some reprogrammes of the existing, but, excuse me, mainly new commitments, in the amount of about 3 billion kuna we have foreseen in this financing account, so what we have mentioned in the circle of measures. Given the circumstances and the great challenge of preserving liquidity in the system, the idea is that the State budget is a central point because it is much simpler, not only to coordinate but also to approach, both domestic and international markets, however, from the level of the central state budget, and then disperse this liquidity in the manner in which it should be. Here, so, thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205791	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have 23 replicas. I'll only read it if someone may not be registered because a lot of you have been answering. So we go like this: Bulj, Grbin, Maras, Jovanovic, Grmoja, Glasovac, Čuraj, Zekanovic, Mišić, Žagar, Pernar, Perić, Panenić, Mrsić, Felak, Ante Babić, Lacković, Lalovac, Mrak-Taritaš, Dobrović, Strick, Bauk, Bilek, Šuker, Borić, Greece. Okay, there's a lot of it, here, I'll write it down, Shuker, Boric, Greek, so 26 we have it. We're on our way, please just hold on for a minute. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205792	Thank you very much. Minister, the downfall is economics, tourism. However, you forgot one very important thing, the World Bank warns us. The biggest downfall will be from our citizens sending money to their families. We know it's 6% of GDP and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies that have evicted our citizens. How much you.../incomprehensible/... that's 18 billion kuna a year, our people from abroad are sending to their families. How much do you expect there, and we need to know that Croatia is at risk to the World Bank, what do you expect and what you have done for those people who are in Ireland, Germany, who you have driven out of your policies, what have you done that they can at least apply to the Employment Office in Croatia? What are the measures for these people who have been filling this budget while you have boasted about the effects and growth of the economy, and in fact because of the bad policies are What do you expect from the evidence? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205793	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205794	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here are the previous circumstances when you've opened that topic in some way, potentiated the wording or are practically transfers from the abroad of our people who are working, are an integral part of it, and then I'm answering, and now I'm going to answer, they're part of the balance of payments, so something that's in the CNB's intelligence, which is very clear, very unequivocally, transparently, all the citizens see these figures and that you're also quoting. It is our responsibility, not to predict and plan and in some way to elaborate any details of the balance of payments, but to consider when planning. Because what you're saying, and if one of our people working outside is transferring funds to their family, to their neighbors, etc., those coins through different visions, either mostly consumption or whatever, they have, of course, an effect on the budget. It's all an integral part of our projections and projections that I've just elaborated, so they'll obviously have an effect on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205795	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205796	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It is clear that one of the sectors most affected by this crisis is touristic, and in particular small tenants are affected. I'll read you what's on the official website of the IRS. The tenants who applied for a postponement of the tax until 30.3.2020 for the obligation to arrive on 31.3.2020 granted the right to postpone the payment and the obligation until 30.6.2020 and will not be cancelled. Dear Minister, you and I both know that small tenants will not make the revenues planned for the 4th and 5th and most likely for the 6th month. Since the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given to the Tax Administration's pages that these obligations will not be written off, and that we are today, or we are discussing rebalancing, my question to you is whether these obligations will be written off or will be small renters have to pay after 30.6? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205797	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205798	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have made very clear and transparent, unequivocally all the criteria prescribed at the level of the Tax Administration, I thank you and for the replica, given that you have also potentiated and I am pleased to see in the media space that in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of praise at the expense of the Tax Administration and I will use this pay phone, too, because I think my colleagues in the Tax Administration have done a great deal, this has not been simple and all these measures that have been put into operation, the criteria, but even more important their implementation as such. As for private tenants, we've talked a lot about this in the form of previous circles of tax reform, I think we can conclude that we have concluded other than those excluded from paying certain tax obligations or zero rates anywhere, that this is the least taxable segment of the general tax system and of course we will not ignore it as such, but given all the circumstances, is, when we talk about the average amount per bed of 300 kuna per year, in fact in some way It also reveals what we're talking about, but anyway, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as it is very clear, the criteria are prescribed and defined [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] And the IRS does it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205799	Now let's go to the request for a break from colleagues of Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205800	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking on behalf of the Bridge Club for a 10-minute break on the rebalancing proposal. Like I said, colleagues and colleagues, this rebalance, i.e. This crisis exposed all the policies of the bad that were towards the Croatian people. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. As I said in the replica, 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna is from our evicted people. Agriculture was destroyed, when we were giving the most subsidies, you were talking to the ministers about self-sufficiency, when I was talking about self-sufficiency and proposing laws, amendments and saying that we had to encourage domestic production, not foreign GMO products, that's when they told me they were my ticks. Tourism, absolutely forbidden everything, will fail tourism. The only thing that won't fail is the election, and even those who are self-insulated ministers will be able to go to the polls, and our caterers are in quarantine. They're all, so it just doesn't work. And these evicted people of ours were the first to lose their jobs, that's the youth you've sent out to bad policies. I'm not happy with your answer. What are you offering these people who left Slavonia because of the bad policies that went out of my Dalmatian burn? The only thing you're saying about local self-government is that you're positive. You can see in Split-Dalmatia County which is a creation. A creature that functions like a mob. They destroyed my Zagora, 100,000 people have left since they led Sanader and Boban and so on. Take some action. Let's stop the county, and local self-government will be able to function, so the viruses won't enter where they don't smell, and we'll be able to go to the elections of those who are in isolation. This is a shameful demonstration of the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205801	Thank you, fellow Bull. I approve of the break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 11 and 40. It's 11:00.31. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] First in line, or third in all, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205803	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. My question is simple, I saw in the budget rebalancing that the amount intended to restore damage in the city of Zagreb is below 100 million kuna. What I'm interested in, that's 400 times less, so 400 is less than the estimated damage in the city of Zagreb. So I'm curious whether you as a man living in Zagreb, are you a member of the HDZ who supports M. Bandic in the City Assembly, you think it's okay to go to elections without the passed Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb and that it's okay not to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb and tell them that the state is behind them? So I think it's a shame that after 45 days, so now almost 50 days in the city of Zagreb, the city looks like a ruin and that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the current city government treats us this way. I must tell you that I am sincerely not only angry but also sad, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205804	Thank you very much, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205805	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have seen well in the budget rebalancing is secured at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering of an additional 100 million kuna, to add to that the amount already standing at the level of 41 million kuna to the Environmental Protection Fund as regards subsidising the part of the price price of those so-called. condensation boilers, therefore, we are talking about the amounts foreseen for interventions in this rebalancing process, which will allow, in the short term, and should enable, of course, the return of citizens whose homes are damaged due to earthquakes, but also what you will hear in two days at the cabinet session and all of our follow-up that, among other things, in a horizon of such a single comprehensive law and result in the resulting because not a single budget is called such a project or damage or all together for a year, this is a multi-annual issue in which it should be approached very systematically and in one appropriate way to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205806	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205807	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my question concerns health care. Since health care is concerned, I cannot begin by not congratulating all nurses and technicians of the International Sisterhood Day and thanking for the tremendous efforts that make them maintain a health care system in a state that can meet the needs of Croatian citizens. There are over 41,000 registered nurses in Croatia, of which nearly 35,000 work in the health system, which is 45% of the health care system. I'm afraid you haven't taken the health problem seriously enough because the debts are certainly close to 5 billion kuna, I don't see how you're going to solve that debt, and all that's waiting for us in the next period is just an increase in the health care system. Also, you have unseriously approached the additional insurance problem because it was necessary to provide additional funds for 200,000 insurance companies that would be free of charge of the supplementary insurance policy, which is 160 million since the beginning of this year, there is no such thing as a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205808	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205809	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's how long I'm going to be able to answer your line, but since there are more doctors in the assembly, I'm going to believe these replicas on the health issue. 8.5 billion is the situation at the end of last year's total debt in the health system when all of the total is summed up to 3 billion and 800 million kuna. The trend in growth is continued and this year, I have to say we have data in the third month, we don't have local data yet, but as far as HZZO is concerned, and especially as far as so-called. Colloquium-named state hospitals can conclude that this debt is continued. What I was saying at the outset, so we focused on the area and the health issue before the rebalancing of the whole series of redistributions within the legal possibilities. In particular, what was at that moment was the most important insurance of respirators, protective masks, etc. And we'll continue in that direction. However, the financing of this figure overall exceeds the problem of Covid himself and one rebalancing, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205810	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205811	Thank you. Dear Minister, as far as this rebalancing and its indicators are concerned, we understand everything. The elections are at the door, so budget spending is expressed by total expenditures not reduced by a single kuna. On the other hand, it envisions a huge drop in budget revenues, some 23 billion kuna, which would be a 16% drop. So it's clear that this isn't a real budget rebalance that this is a fake, so this is a fake budget rebalance and we're going to have a real budget rebalance after the election. And I ask you, how do you think Croatian citizens will feel about the situation in Croatia in the 9th, 10th month, and how do they see it now? Will he be more optimistic at the 9th and 10th months or are they more optimistic now? Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205812	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205813	Thank you very much. Well, I got a lot of labels in the Croatian Parliament, the most impressive one was an accountant or an accountant, so I denied it, and I'm definitely not a sociologist and psychologist who can assess the state of the nation either today or in a few months. It is our role and the tasks of all together to make this psychological element improve, improve and in the given circumstances in fact all we can give that, as well as such challenging situations and their negative effects minimise as much as possible. As far as rebalancing is concerned, I will repeat once again, the budget's expenditure side, despite the needs of 7 and a few billion kuna for higher expenditures, remains unchanged. It is a great, great effort that we have managed to do in just a few weeks to keep this spending side at the same level and not to create additional pressure on taxpayers or additional pressure on public debt. But the fact is 23.2 billion Kuna is less in the revenue of the budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205814	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205815	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are a parent, you have children, and you are likely to know that in the last month and a half the only person who maintains the system of education in life are teachers, teachers and parents. No. The Ministry of Science and Education there is a complete breakdown of the system. Can you please answer the question why did you decide to reward this teacher and teacher by taking everything from them through the budget rebalancing? So, not only the basis for 4%, like all public and state officials, but also the Santa Claus and the regression and the jubilee and all the accessories they fought for for two months on strike. Was it really necessary to take them absolutely, absolutely everything and bring them literally to the beggar stick?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205816	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205817	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so of course I cannot agree with your findings primarily with qualifications, we are still in charge of dialogue and our offer is on the table. At the same time, the conversation continues, and at this point, I wouldn't prejudge anything. I join as with previous commendation and congratulations to all medical staff as well as to our teachers and who maintain also well apostrophe with the help of parents mainly for teaching, for children in the teaching of lower classes education system as such. I will repeat once again, so when there was a topic and a strike with an increase in the base of 1.1% and 3%, respectively, for the system of education 3% that came into force at the end of last year, total salaries for more than 20% of the government's mandate. So what we're talking about and what's kind of on the table as an offer, you well know that we've been very clear on the strike, for a certain part of these increases the funds weren't originally as intended, nor originally But again, 20 percent increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205818	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205819	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers in your speech and projections, of course, predicting the decline of GDP here we have predicted of 9.4 we have heard that the commission is slightly more beneficial to our economy and predicts a smaller decline, which is good, which I can say that this rebalancing does not predict a reduction in state spending or budget itself, and we know that the share of GDP is 20%. What is not good, which states that the assumption of exporting services is a 70% drop, and if our tourism drops 50%, that's 10% of GDP, so that's it, total tourism if it falls by 50%, that's a 10% reduction in GDP. So, according to this, we expect GDP growth in the last quarter. And I'm interested in what about the European Course Mechanism, or what about the introduction of the EUR, given this debt that goes beyond 86% of GDP, what are we going to do about it? Because I'm not the Kunophyl that I prefer the kuna to my own citizens, and I think that the EUR would help and help its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205820	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205821	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative last week at the government meeting met the last of 19 measures that we took almost a year ago in that letter of intent to enter the exchange rate mechanism II, so the last of 19 and now we will also write a new memo where we will inform the European institutions about this. As for the Master criteria you are alluding to, or the specific question of public debt, so I'm going to go over it one more time and say it. So 60% is that limit, as far as it's going to be tomorrow and what's going to happen I wouldn't be going into it right now at this point of debate, but if you're above 60% of the drop, there has to be a minimum 1/20th difference between the current level and that 60%. Croatia has reduced public debt four times faster over the past four years than those provisions say. So we met the criteria. This effect, which is ultimately how we now see it one-time on public debt growth to 86.7, should not distract us from this further path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205822	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205823	Dear Minister. I would like you to tell us, to the Croatian public, how much will we get in this next period, the grant money from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205824	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205825	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, out of the current envelope a good part of the funds, and there are also great efforts made by the cabinet and individual colleagues of ministers, mainly Pavić and Aladrović, where we have made redistribution and re-location out of the existing envelopes that have been allotted for certain purposes to what is most important at the moment, and yet I repeat this horizontal measure of paying part of the salaries or preserving jobs to the economy. You also know well that behind our chairmanship dialogue or negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework are under way, when and how they will be completed, we will see more. We, of course, did and did everything to make it our presidency, the covid had its own kind of effect and effect. Of course, we are talking about grants or aid schemes, but parallel to that, at EU level, they are either put into office and some additional schemes concerning credit arrangements that we will also take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205826	Comrade Misic, please welcome your request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205827	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I asked you an extremely simple question, you didn't answer me. I asked how many, you didn't answer me and I now, this is my time let me ask you a question now, and I'll actually give you an answer because it says in the rebalancing, and that's the number you didn't tell me. I'll read what's written in the rebalancing, so when we talk about revenues, there's a 623 item of assistance from abroad, about a gift from entities within the general budget. That item says that in the next period or after the rebalancing period, we will be planning to get 500 million kuna, namely 502 million kuna less money than we originally thought with the budget we adopted at the end of last year. So 500 million kunas less. For Croatians and Croats who follow this session, let them know, 18 billion 756 million kuna were planned, and there will be 18 billion 253 million kuna. So, I've pointed out more than once, and this time I'm going to say, European solidarity is gone, we're not going to get any lip from the EU, and you said yourself we didn't get, that there's something else being negotiated, and you've been rebalanced the budget for less money. So, the European project fell on the first test, on the first step, on the first obstacle, meaning solidarity was neither there nor there, and this is one empirical evidence that you did not want to comment on or that you did not want to tell the Croatian public loudly and clearly. When it is most difficult for us, rather than for the EU in which the Croatian Government has sworn to help us, and we find it most difficult because we are a tourist country, almost exclusively a tourist country, the EU is taking our money, or you are planning less money with the rebalancing process than we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205828	Okay, the break will be approved. We'll continue at 12.05, first in line, fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205829	We continue, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Misic Ivica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205830	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I see the state is in trouble with the finances but I am pleased when you opened the highway now in Slavonia. I personally think you run good finances but I must say that today's rail traffic is 15% higher compared to earlier, so I ask you if you are in rebalancing, I see that you are not, but will you predict that the railway from Zagreb to Vinkovac is being made? Why? Because we see the highway itself feeding all the highways of Slavonia towards Serbia, all the highways of our food, so the Vinkovci railway, once through the railway station, went through 450 trains in 24 hours and now it's increasing, so Europe should think about it, now more trains go with freight traffic and that's what I want to say to Slavonia and think about it, and I think now it's time to do the same thing as you did on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205831	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205832	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, you've been well apostrophe and in some way and a trace of this thinking of yours is in line with what we're talking about and in these circumstances that I've been talking about many times and speaking and replicating, and on the fall of income and on the fall of economic activity and so on, there's one part that we can't ignore, and it's investment activity and the state needs to make a contribution, I say again in accordance with the possibilities and the overall framework. We have also seen before the rebalancing and in the past days and with colleagues from the Croatian roads, highways, from HZ, of course, the resolute Minister of Col. Butković, which is also how to maintain these plans that are originally envisaged, with which to go further, but in any case, always that emphasis on public investments, mainly those that we can finance and co-finance through European funds, so European aid through cheap sources of funding to continue as such, so that on this trail, if something is not foreseen in this budget and rebalancing, it is certainly intended to be in perspective as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205833	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205834	Thank you. Dear Minister, we could say that this budget is short-sighted and short-sighted. Why is that? I read it from your words. You said that, and it's financially correct, that you've been overstretched to maintain your expenditures at the given values, at initial values, and there's practically no regrets because it wasn't easy to fill those redistributions. But it's quite clear that this isn't the last budget rebalancing this year, that there will be more, so I'm saying it's short breath. And why is he shortsighted? You repeated this and when the budget was made, you repeated the same thing, which is a key thing for the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy in general. When industrial production and exports fall, we paradoxically fall and import. And that is the key in the structure of Croatia's GDP, and that is why I miss this political message in this budget that, which is reform, what things we intend to do to change this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205835	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205836	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this import addiction, we have talked about it personally and here in the Assembly a lot, and I think now it is also getting some additional, additional importance, and I would say with more knowledge very clearly, very unequivocal, fact-finding, which is that these circumstances imply, in some way, the strengthening of and domestic components of self-sufficiency and ensuring self-sufficiency throughout a series of segments of food and agricultural production, industry, here in this particular case, pharmaceutical or chemical industry, there is, of course, a question of energy and energy sufficientness, unfortunately, we still haven't found any more significant oil supplies in our area, so we are a net importer of certain categories, but again reduce that import dependence, to reduce some kind of dependence on some global flows that you can't influence, it's some idea that we see in this crisis. If I say one rebalancing or one budget can recognize or not, but it's one of the key reforms that we all need to do together, it's not just a matter of state and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205837	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205838	Dear Minister Maric. The educators lost their raises, and you lied to them, and you told them we'd raise your wages, and now you've changed your mind that you wouldn't, and then you're putting the guilt of God on the crown. But Mr. Maric, you're the ones who banned the work, you're the ones who pushed people into quarantine and isolation, you're the ones who banned tourists from coming. And please explain to me, you are a very smart man, those who drive tourist buses, for example. So the carriers, who took these buses on the lease they're banned, the tourists are banned from entering the country, let's explain as a smart man from what they're going to pay the lysing wars that are still coming at their checkout? You don't care about these people at all, and you don't care about Croatia. They shed crocodile tears for the Croatian people, but these are not unfortunately tears but tears of joy when you devour them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205839	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205840	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. A lot of things you kind of said, it's hard to answer at all in one minute. I haven't lied to anyone, either to teachers or union leaders with whom we conducted negotiations last year for this year. I will repeat again as I did just before, and the honourable representative answered, during this term, we have been conducting a constructive dialogue since the first day of the day, each time resulting in some sort of step. ... No, it wasn't just at the end, but whatever it is, I'll never change your interpretation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Each year resulted in an increase in wages and further perspectives and a further look forward. We want and have always recognized the hard work of all civil and public service employees, those you too knew very often in your public appearances to call ugly names. For us, they are very correct and very good employees who deserve more wages than everyone in the economy, but all in line with the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205841	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205842	I'd like to say he insulted me and all the public sector employees when he said I called them ugly names. That's not true, Mr. Maric, I'm against austerity measures and you know why I'm against austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205843	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205844	Chairman. My colleague Pernar injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not refer to the Rules of Procedure and did not speak about it but literally replicated it, so I believe he deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205845	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, okay. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205846	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. We are witnesses of the rate of fees or salaries paid to entrepreneurs or employees, which is more than 480,000 employees who received a record period of work compensation or support provided by the Government and were over a billion kuna from those redistributions. We are here now to further ensure both subsidies and household benefits, etc. Another 4.9 billion kuna is actually ensuring stability both for entrepreneurs and for the safety of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205847	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205848	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here you are, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, follow every item and each figure of the account, and let's call it the liquid part, in particular. And you know well yourself as a longtime financier that it's not easy to secure all these funds in a short time, but of course we're not looking for any laurels here right now, and I don't know what merits, but the fact is that we did and it was our intention from the very beginning to design these measures as quickly as possible and it was clear our intensity and when we first came to HS and when we had the debate the clubs supported our efforts and we're grateful for that. But I'm saying, it was even more important to go as soon as possible into that implementation and that's what we did. I said we secured liquidity for payments that started or started in the 5th month for the 4th month, and we'll do that for next month's payments in June for May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205849	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205850	Dear Minister. Presenting the draft budget that you are today and changing, you said that it was developed and the view of the government was that it was developed and it was in the conditions of normal functioning of the economy. Now we have a crisis situation in the economy where needs are significantly higher, and we have remained at the same level, so this particular finding... we have preserved the expenditures that were, and now that we need to strengthen, now that the needs are much greater, strengthen. It is not just the structure of the state budget as such that it flows from the state register it goes to all the needs it has and logically would be expected now that the needs are greater if the state that stands behind the budget, behind the revenue side, to further increase its investment, its consumption, its investment, to ensure the rapid return of the economy to the one we expect in future time based on what was so far. So here I think there's still a move to make from the current holding state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205851	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205852	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what I've been trying to do in my opening part, actually, and I'm going to elaborate again, so I'm going to say, so the need to increase and grow on the dissipated side of the budget over 7 billion kuna, we've compensated with savings from other items. These savings have not been permanently saved by some of them, permanently eliminated, any delays in certain projects, acquisitions etc., any real savings, Croatia presides over the EU Council, but numerous meetings that should have been planned to take place in Zagreb and throughout Beautiful Ours will not happen or happen because of objective circumstances. So a whole series, and I'd say, of all these things that eventually have to turn into one picture of the budget. But the budget as such is the answer to all these circumstances because on the one hand it ensures the implementation of these measures that we have put into operation, but also, of course, it must look at what will happen after that and just before I answered the question of investments, whether the budget, whether the extra budget users, were all expensive, on this trail we must continue, because how important it is that Croatia fall this year, the first year of the crisis, is so, I would say even more important bids With past experience, how soon we'll be back. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205853	The next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205854	Dear Minister. You've dropped all of the 6.4 billion kunas for support, or part of it is, you're going to, but somewhere there's a figure of about 6.5 billion. Part of this is EU funds, and you know it's all support and it's about support, and you've given it to companies that pay dividends. Are you ready to announce all the companies that paid dividends and got support? Who will control the correctness of this because the State Inspectorate can't do it because he doesn't have the authority, and only an HZZ that doesn't have people. And on the other hand, do you think about, given that you gave tens of millions of kunas to large companies, to enter the state into the property of these companies and to do what Germany did that would get into one big... A very clear question to which I want very clear answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205855	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205856	So clear always the answer you're looking for, of course that's your legitimate right, I can say that we've been thinking about all these things and the details, we've talked about so far, what we've done would be an idea to put the criteria into operation so that they can go ahead and implement these measures as soon as possible. We have all said from the beginning that it will be publicly and transparently known, so so this list, HZZ, was published a few days ago, weeks ago, so we all have an insight from the first to the last one that received both the amount of support and the number of employees. As regards the control itself, whether someone has abused, or whether certain irregularities have been identified, and the HZZ, as you have well said, as a concession provider or such a type, not concessions, pardons but support, is obliged to control, but also other institutions, of course we pair certain data between HZZ, IRS, etc., and of course the institutions will act in accordance with their powers and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205857	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205858	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So I take this opportunity first of all, to commend the government's work and to bring all these measures worth nearly 7 billion kunas that helped the Croatian economy survive this era of the crown and to preserve jobs, not to see those ominous forecasts come true of 400 thousand unemployed. Thank God, this has not happened or will happen, but my question is going towards a further follow-up of projects that have been launched primarily, major infrastructure projects in rail transport and road construction, a concrete project of construction of railways from the Križovci through Koprivnica to the Hungarian border. Also, fast roads from the Križevci towards Koprivnica, whether these projects will continue at a pace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205859	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205860	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The answer is yes, it will continue. The dynamics of course, depending on the overall possibilities, the financial plans relating to individual extra-financial users or state-owned enterprises that are the ones that are taking these types of investments, we tried to fit into these things that you are talking about, which is to continue investment flows, but again I say, and in accordance with certain and certain possibilities. We have worked on this, and we will continue to work, as I have answered earlier, and my colleague Misic on his question about the direction towards Slavonia and Vinkovci, also, Koprivnica-križevci, any part of Croatia, we all know very well what the effects, multiplicative and others are, public investments, of course, more so if they can be further co-financed by EU grants, so that's all we care about, but again, we have to put ourselves in the frame of all our options, and then they will, among other things, dictate that dynamic you asked me about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205861	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205862	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the budget rebalancing and implementation of the State budget have been enabled to redistribute funds within the State budget itself, but also in charge, both domestic and international markets. So, given our foreign exchange reserves, what is the role of the CNB in this case in such a debt and is it really considering using these foreign reserve assets that actually serve to maintain liquidity in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205863	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what's important and what's kind of a good thing about this crisis is that we've practically been at the table since the first day and brought in and we have the CNB, so their rope leadership, i.e. all the professional services and a few things we've done together, is, in particular, a very important topic about these assets and the source of liquidity, craftsmanship for entrepreneurs and all those affected by the coronary crisis. But also, ensuring liquidity for the whole state's functioning, I think we're all well aware and all in one way, I'd say a little harder way, to see, that is, the importance and role of the state and all its services, the police, the fire department, the health care and that I'm not counting on it now. And it is certainly important that this liquidity be provided in an adequate manner because the CNB is an independent regulator and it, in accordance with its and the legal powers that the Croatian Parliament has given, is acting, however, I think all of these activities that we have done in terms of funding are seen to be, among other things, an integral part of all of our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205865	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205866	Thank you, Vice President. So, Minister, one question. Whether measures to support the economy for the 6th, 7th and 8th months are envisaged in the budget rebalancing or, on the 9th, 10th, the crown will return. Is that somewhere? And the teaching question, therefore, since the expenditure side has remained fully the same 147 billion kuna, since we have no projections for 2021, we can't know in any way how you're going to dig any further holes, and in that part, this budget rebalancing proposal would be incomplete already in the 6th month. What's my question, if you've been redistributing some of the money, so you've taken the Central State Sport Office for sport buildings of 16 million, for local sports and Croatian... 14 million, will you have more to take from anyone or will you go to equalising the VAT rate or raising the VAT as it has been in previous crises? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205867	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205868	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You asked a lot of things, how much do I get, so, as we said at the outset, still representing measures, we had to underline somewhere in time, so as to support measures for the economy, we're talking about measures for March, April and May with payments in the coming months, that's what the budget provides for, as well as measures in the tax section, where we also said, three months with a possible possibility of extension for an additional 3, depending on how the situation is going to be, as such, developing. As for the effects and looks ahead, that in the convergence program is the view of next year. As a rule, we brought the Convergence Programme for a three-year period, this time we agreed at EU level to watch this year and next year and it is very clear, so after the drop of 9.4% this year, we predict a growth of about 6.1%. However, the EU Commission is also more optimistic than we are, even 7.5, and as far as budget deficits are concerned with these 6.8% this year, the next year is 2.4% of GDP. As for VAT and tax policy, we will always talk about it and think about it. No additional tax changes are provided for at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205869	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in the rebalancing regarding additional HBOR funds, so can you please just some number of how currently HBOR has approved funds along with business banks to business entities because we see that HAMAG BICRO is actually, we're reading from the media that in fact all of these funds for coronaryvirus, means for the lending program, that more than 5 thousand requests, are 10% that they've just been processed. We see that this line is already closed and other lines, so here's the clean information maybe around HBOR because you mentioned there would be additional funds, as currently the situation with these funds towards entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205871	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205872	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, on a daily basis I get updated data by 11.5, not only HBOR because through the FINA system, perhaps here, pure information and for you, as we have formed and established this entire system that each interested in liquid assets appears on the FINA web interface, FINA is this unique place where it is, among other things, working and then calculating that so-called FINA. COVID score and afterwards is directed to each commercial bank, i.e. HBOR is the one that will provide that 50% of the funds. To, so yesterday, 8 300 is the calculation of COVID score, the number of applications totaling 15 180, companies are mostly looking for liquidity loans, but also for delays, so the moratories of those credit obligations. Also, all that data and all that, of course, everything in accordance with the legal obligations we will now be doing, clearly and transparently publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205873	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205874	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. We all know that this rebalancing that we're going to discuss today is actually a form, the real rebalancing will come in the fall, when we see real frames and real problems. But what I'm always interested in, and I'm a couple of times, and I've asked you a question about the day after. So, I suppose there are certain arrangements at EU finance ministers' level, I think there are other talks, which means the Green Plan, which means economic development, which means the activities that we will be doing the day after, that Croatia is preparing for some new normality as part of other EU countries. I think that, among other things, with this rebalance and the one that will be in the fall, it is important to stress that we see in which direction we are going, what reforms, which are possibly economic elements, and how much more is the Green Plan that Europe has announced so much. I personally thought it was extremely good and praised, as much as he looked at all, whether he was in some stages and how Croatia would stand up to that Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205875	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205876	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the lesson and just now that my colleague Zekanovic, the esteemed representative, has also opened as a topic, you are now refering to it. So at EU level the focus is on one side, as in our case, so what we can do in the short term in these circumstances, and among other things, we are talking about revising that European Stabilisation Mechanism, and we are talking about this so-called "Stabilisation Mechanism". SURE employee support program, but just like us, we're focused pretty much on exactly what you said, the day after. So look ahead and after this. And that's why he's so-called. Recovery Fund or Recovery Fund, something to start talking about and talking about. I have said it several times, yet it is 27 member states and we cannot expect the speed of designing and implementing the measures to be as fast as we do, but this is among other things something that is parallel to the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which, here is now co-cidating with COVID, but actually represents the future 7 years, i.e. the next 7-year financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205877	Next replica, distinguished representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205878	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have noticed one interestingness in this budget, although practically in the same portfolio, two extra-profit users of the state budget of Croatia and the Environmental Protection Fund, practically have a diametrically opposite financial situation. One of them is in debt for 700 million kuna, and the other have surpluses of over a billion kuna that are transferred from year to year. Of course, this individual approach, therefore, to its problems with banks, benefits exclusively from banks. And secondly, I have compared that clientelism as a definition of decision-making for the allocation of funds is very present, i.e. You mentioned 41 million for condensation boilers, for example in the Environmental Protection Fund. So whoever knows the energy and solves the heat system today wouldn't be able to separate that kind of state money for something that's only 5 to 10 times better and the whole import equipment is, so that money is could be in the function of developing the economy through solutions for which we have domestic producers, unfortunately not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205879	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205880	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I know that, in general, you know, when you have acted as a minister as important, important financial plans and the budget of extra- budget users, I know that in general and when we are talking in the Assembly, a very small percentage of the replica and the debate comes down to them, I think that they are important from the perspective of public finances but even more from the perspective of their contribution to economic activity and what we are trying to do all the time and as much as possible to push towards the fact that this investment activity is the one that creates economic value, which gives added value, so now when we speak and analyze each of them individually, but mainly when we look at all together and surely their financial plans should maintain the naturally limited possibilities we are now facing, there were just a few questions about road and rail infrastructure, but also as regards energy recovery, protection from some floods etc., etc. These are all things that should be foreseen in the financial plans as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205881	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205882	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Well, none of the governments in the 2020 budget accounted for an epidemic of the coronary virus, let alone the consequences of this epidemic. The current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I think, is perfectly dealing with all these challenges, all the statistics are talking about, and when we talk about the rebalancing of this budget, it is important to stress that it does not stop with investment because investment means jobs. When we talk about the area of Varazdin County, it has been built since 2002. Trying to build an OS St. Elijah. Since then, six governments have changed and only in the term of office has this one started to build and I hope that in the next two years it will be built, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205883	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205884	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's your replica, too. Well, here's to teaching and the previous ones involved, I repeat rail, road infrastructure, environmental protection infrastructure, water and, of course, the education system. We're here, what you said and you noticed at last week's and the government's meeting on the school in St. Iliji but also some other schools I would say, even in the media space, the public space already knows, can also list the school of N. Andric in Vukovar, the crafts school in Sisak, Donji Miholjac, Krapina, Split, Children's center in Zadar, is located in Sl. Schools for children with special needs, M. Ambruš, i.e. with developmental difficulties, M. Stojanović in Babina Greda as well as in Čakovec, so all these schools are listed in one conclusion of the Government that, among other things, depending on the different dynamics and implementation of certain measures whether the collection of documentation, procurement, competition and so on, the realization that the Government is behind these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205885	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205886	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's a very difficult situation, and I believe it's been a very hard job to prepare a rebalance for which we've all been a little bit and we've been afraid it's going to look, but given the government's decision to support both the economy and our citizens, I think we've done a pretty solid job, and I'm just interested, there's a certain reduction means redistribution because there's no, meaning spending cuts, there are certain obligations that have been made by signing contracts with institutions, associations, economics, etc., so I'm wondering if these contracts will be fulfilled by the basis of those rules as they're signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205887	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205888	And under the most difficult circumstances as these are, of course, the rule of law as such must be, and so certain obligations that have been made, should be discussed and negotiated and taken into account and new circumstances but also, at least our position as Government and we have shown this in several cases, not only to go without such a kind of dialogue. So, in the given circumstances as you know, I will repeat once again, practically 1/5 of the revenue has been cut out from the state budget itself, so 23.2 billion kuna for this year that we are not going to collect, then, of course, some other items on the expenditure side must be audited, but we are always ready for dialogue, for discussion, for constructive approach, if something cannot be realised within the shortest possible time, of course, there is some dynamic component that we then take into account and so on what you refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205889	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your opening work, you mentioned extracurricular users. So their original incomes have been reduced by 11% compared to the plan, but there has been a decrease in costs at an opportunity of 4%. Also, a very important segment in the rebalancing of this budget is the unambiguous assets that will be given in terms of loans to local self-government units, why am I saying this? Because, as is predicted to reduce the income of extra budget users, there will also be a reduction in the incomes of local self-government units not only from income tax, but also from the basis of municipal compensation, and these are the two highest income units of local self-government and what, with all the good that the government has done with these measures to preserve jobs and all the expensive, what must not happen to us in the future, that what I say, in a certain way, under the government's cap, it becomes an indifference generator because, if that happens to us, then we are in great danger. So now, given these indicators, we have an opportunity to act preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205891	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205892	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're right because that's exactly what one of our basic intentions of all these measures was to focus on preserving jobs and paying salaries, preserving liquidity systems. Not only are countries such as those in some narrow or narrowest circle or sense, but also much wider, the state is big, the state has very much of its own in some way dealings with different segments, not just economies and societies and states, which should make it easier for others to have their liquid problems, and not in some way even make them impossible and difficult. So what I was saying at the outset, when I spoke to the speaker about the financing account, that our intention from the beginning was that all of these financing needs were, as far as possible, centralized, not because of some discretionary decision, but rather because of a simpler way, not that now 576 units are going on the capital market and financial markets in search of liquidity. It's much simpler that we at the central level and then these estimated 2 billion and 900, as we have now placed in the financing account in an adequate way according to the criteria that we have established, disperse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205893	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205894	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, congratulations to you and the Ministry of Finance, the entire government on everything you do to keep public finances on one level that is promising. What interests me is the tax on accommodation units, the flat tax that was already in question today. Since I come from local self-government, and we have almost 110 thousand small tenants on the coast and they certainly expect this tourist season, and every expenditure is important to them. So I ask, given some of the possibilities that exist, which is your next move. Whether we're going to have at least a partial write-off, a full write-off, means all the debts we have for this year, given the season it's going to be, or maybe you'll give local self-government a chance to make some different decisions in the course of the year, given that you've brought that power down to them through tax changes, which may also be one of the solutions. But, of course, we'll see what happens during the season, but at least some hope to see what happens on that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205895	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205896	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, teaching what my colleague Grbin had just asked, I didn't have time to answer everything, but therefore, and it's well quoted from the Tax Administration website, so we didn't ignore that segment either, so private renters, given the circumstances and given the forecasts regarding the tourist season, surely one part that will, and of course, have effects. At the same time, as I said earlier, so it's in terms of tax, sort of a burden, among the lowest, if not the lowest tax segment as such, but of course, we mustn't ignore it. So, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, as this system is formed, it is paid quarterlyly, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, it is practically, the release has already been done as such, it writes very clearly also in those criteria that we have defined and prescribed and which stand on the tax administration's website. For more and more, as so far, as far as local self-government is concerned, we are very often open to this topic, ready and open to discussions, depending on the development of the situation, you know, when we started with this additional fiscal decentralisation, that we knew and extended certain deadlines for city and municipal councils to make such decisions. So, about that we're always ready to sit at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205897	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today you have unfortunately avoided answering many direct questions. I'll just remind you. So how many state institutions, HBOR and HAMAG have granted loans so far, not how many applications, but how many have they approved? The second question is, why didn't you ban the payment of profits to companies that used support to preserve jobs? My colleague Miranda is the question. Why didn't you let the big companies that took large amounts through this support, get the state into co-ownership of these companies. Half%, 1%, 3%, but for the record. Why did you say that support here is compensated by investment costs, more or less, and even from EU funds. Therefore, investment, wage cuts and the rest which has a very negative impact on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205899	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I also expected your particular replica or question, not the sublimation of all the previous ones. I will submit everything to my colleagues by the end of the debate, as well as to everyone, as regards the specific figures of HBOR and HAMAG, I simply cannot have all the data available at all times. I gave that report I get every morning, and that's about those demands. As approved, as regards HBOR, as regards commercial banks, they will also communicate clearly. Why we didn't or did something, so here, let me, of course, we can always elaborate, but it's ours, I won't say right, but also the obligation to look at broader aspects, so I didn't rule out those proposals or what Mrsic said as some kind of thesis from our further talks. I said that we have established certain criteria that are quite simple and quite passing, but I have not eliminated the possibility of these criteria being corrected, i.e. to be as such, possibly even sharpened, depending on what the first find will show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205901	Thank you. Now we've exhausted these first replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205902	Very specific, but here, I wanted to set it up now because I knew I'd discuss it after this replica. So, the key question in this rebalancing which is definitely barbaric at 15. 6, so this is the rebalancing first in a series that will happen this year and he de facto is now recording one situation where we are at the moment but is not giving answers to what will be behind 15. Six. Why are we talking about 15? Six? Because 15. 6. the key measure expires and de facto in the budget the most important and financially and in any other way and relates to the preservation of jobs. Therefore, a measure of 6.8 billion kuna, with the exemption from the payment of contributions to all those companies that had losses above 50% of their income. And we still don't have the answer, so that's my key question, which is going to be from those 500 jobs behind 15. Six? Where is the decision to extend the measure for the next 3 months, where is the money to be financed in this budget? It's not there, it's not in there. That's the key questions, people. So, I'd like these defensive forecasts of some analysts that there will be 400,000 unemployed at the end of the year, I think it's an exaggeration. But I also think that at this point, as much as 170,000 people without a job and that very easily of these 500 000, at least, those who are directly and indirectly connected to tourism, could really be out of a job. The estimates are in tourism that income will be somewhere at 25, up to 30% of what we achieved last year. We just said 11% in gross added value directly and at least another 10% is the indirect impact of tourism, so you count now. So you have to protect these people, so these people need to know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. And even if there's trouble, and if they really finish one piece, let's say a hundred thousand people, which is very likely of these 500, end up at the employment office, you there have to secure money, new money for unemployment benefits. And I didn't see that money either, so I rightly claim that this rebalancing is absolutely temporary, very improvised in all of its elements and that it covers only the state until the end of June of this year. So, it just goes into the electoral phase, in a way it wants to cover up the details and these important things, I would say which here I am trying to point out to the Croatian public today. There's one more thing I want to say. All the countries in our environment, apart from the measures for the economy, had measures for the citizens, the SDP in time identified it, put together a package, the package was weighing 2 billion kuna, you did not appreciate it, unfortunately, I will only tell you what the Slovenian neighbours did. They gave the pensioners between 130 and 300 euros depending on the amount of pension, giving self-employed a monthly income of 700 euros, 700 euros, for all those who lost their trade or interest due to the crisis. Are farmers and fishermen also treated by self-employed also the basic income of 700 euros? even gave students in Slovenia 150 euros per student. Why? Because only consumption and demand in the short term can retain such economic activity and prevent this fall from happening to us. Imagine, people have invested more and have a lower GDP drop, so they have a bigger deficit but they have a lower GDP decline and we have a smaller deficit and we have a bigger GDP decline. It's a fundamental economic logic in situations like this. Why is it that the Croatian government has been boasting all the time that it's taken care of finances, that it's a much better situation at the moment, that the prime minister is always talking about it, that it's a much better situation than it was 10 years ago or 12, 2008, and that it's all great, but we haven't taken advantage of our fiscal stimulant, or so on. The fiscal basis as they call it there at the IMF is 1.7%, unlike Slovenians whose fiscal stimulant, so I'm only talking about the budget, only what goes through the budget, not through HBOR, not through HAMAG, not through the banking system, not liquidity, only fiscal stimulant, 6.5% and about 3.5 billion euros, respectively, were poured through these support. You can laugh and I will bring you, here during the debate I will bring you a copy of the measures of the Slovenian government that speaks of the 6.5% support, our colleague, my colleague and your colleague and a friend might say, Velimir Shonje wrote about it, read a little of his contribution, I believe that you appreciate Shonja as well as I appreciate it, so from his article I pulled this data on a limited fiscal stimuli related directly to the budget. Croatia 1.7%, Slovenia 6.5%. And there's no dilemma at all, you can laugh now, it raises that question, but here, it's obviously the style of today's debate unlike any of us so far I'd say the debate in which you were much more confident, much more convincing, you didn't hide some important things and facts, and today the situation is clearly quite different when we have 25 billion registered deficits in this rebalancing and when we have very, very much more uncertainty and risks and hidden deficits. Now we're talking about local self-government, here's the mayor and the mayor, let them tell you what their budget deficit is going to be. The billion you've been counting on your projections is what you would say, a grain of salt, so that's nothing compared to what kind of deficit in local self-government is going to be. So a billion kunas and more than that will have only the city of Zagreb. Well, the other day, the mayor went out to a press conference with his whole world and said he was going to miss a billion kunas in the budget. And where are the other 555 units in the state? What are we people talking about? So I don't want to spread defetism here, but let's face it, this is a major crisis, a serious crisis, with a great uncertainty of what's going to happen in the coming weeks and months, and you have to be aware that the country is 4 months away, now that we're going into elections, 4 months. until the formation of a new government, you can't leave in a vacuum, you haven't brought in measures to protect jobs or extend it, you haven't solved a moratorium on loans legally to 12 months, people taking buses, charters, apartments that they built, apartments, etc., banks and Leasing societies because they have no other choice, no legal framework for extending moratorium deadlines, no liquidity loans, I'll give you an answer. Therefore, none of the credits of the commercial banks were granted either without guarantee or with the guarantee of the HBOR or of the State. That's the information, I have it and you obviously don't have it. So nothing's done, nothing's done that we can normally get into another part of this extremely crisisful and uncertain year. This isn't a criticism just for you, I'm the only grudge we have for you that I would say with fear, because it's closer to an election and it's hard to admit this situation that we are in right now, but people need to be told the truth and the truth is just like this. He threatens to quit, threaten to lose jobs especially in the tourist activity and the tourism sector and all related activities. Everyone else may be able to adapt somehow, but there will be the biggest problem, so people need to overcome this situation, they need to be introduced by 12 months moratories, they need to be given liquidity loans, they need to be able to survive this, and then somehow we're going to fight to get the GDP back and get the whole situation back into a more favourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, today's figures on the structure of the rebalancing actually show us the structure of the Croatian economy and what's actually the fact is that when the economy falls 9%, that the taxes that are, especially these consumption taxes that make us most of our budget are going down faster. So GDP falls at a rate of 22%, excise duties per rate of 16%, means indirect taxes, so we're talking about consumer taxes because that's just how our economy's structure is, we have a larger share of services, it shows us actually our balance of payments shows us that the larger service structure in 2020 than it was in 2008, so we're focused on renting, on services, on exporting services, and actually when this happens, one such locking of the economy, we see that I give tax revenues that are actually a degree of budget, fall under two digits, and that's what's actually a big warning. What is only positive between 2008 and 2020 is access to financial markets. I did say that one big bond of a billion and 250 million dollars is under in 2010 so that I don't say the severe torments were ever issued at all, by 6% interest, when, by me and that structure and deficit wasn't what we have today and we see that today the minister says that we can borrow 0.7% means 0.7% we can be in debt when we report a 25 billion deficit and actually when it was a structure, when it was a different structure, we couldn't take even interest of 6%. E means the structure of the financial market has changed completely, completely changed, and it is the only and only instrument of the government that can defend the crisis, and that makes the government the only instrument of borrowing either through pension funds or through banks or the CNB through the creation of offers because money is so cheap that it is at 0.5, 0.7% to 1%, and that is the last and only dam of the entire economic activity. Let's be honest and realistic, and this part of the money paid to the citizens, these 6 billion kunas exclusively comes in debt, the minister himself said that... The EU institutions are much more threefold in the approval of funds to Member States and in this context and exclusively both the last dams of both this budget and the rebalancing and the economy are borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was actually said here and that is unfortunately not the time, but certainly the state of the public business. The minister here talked about extra- budget users, 10 of them who went from 700 million plus to 2400 minus, meaning delta about 3 billion kuna, but the question is what else is the state of the wider part of the public business, and we know that especially from the transport sector, that they were in the minus when they were good times, when they were better times that they were in the minus, we know that the traffic is not, we know that the tourist will not be, the question is, what will happen to Croatia Airlines, what will happen to Jadrolinia, airports, the number of public enterprises that are not part of this budget but are in fact indirectly bound to the budget, so they are certainly directly bound by the locking and inability of citizens to travel, so it will surely come to the government in the future, or to the Ministry for some additional funds, which are certainly the risks of additional burden. What's most important here is to say that the economy is trust and that it's one consumer psychology. What has been announced, and measures themselves now see that many epidemiologists are announcing that there will be a continuation of the recession or crisis of the virus in the 9th month and that consumer psychology is very simple, delaying all possible purchases. We see that in the 4th month, only a thousand cars were purchased or registered in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that any major purchases other than bread, flour, oil, sugar, etc. Those needs mean people only buy it, they delay everything else. And that's the problem, that's the problem of whether it's going to be a 9% drop, 15 or 20. All investments, private investments, if citizens don't know, entrepreneurs don't know what locking will be, it's the biggest problem and budgets and rebalances and economies. Consumer psychology, not knowing what will happen in the 9th month, all have closed not only this part but there will be no private sector investment and there will be no spending, it is the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205904	Thank you. The next debate is Nikola Grumoja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205905	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's budget rebalancing shows the first signs of the seriousness of the economic crisis ahead of us, however, it is only a technical and temporary rebalancing that can hardly be based on some more serious assessments. Still, Croatia and the Croatian economy depend in many ways and are susceptible..., no one knows how the epidemiological situation will develop and not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world. As with other countries, we have only begun to give in to quarantine measures, and we will yet see the economic consequences of this whole story. What seems certain, however, is that the Croatian coronary economy will be more affected by the crisis than the EU average. The European Commission's first forecasts again put us at the very beginning of the nearly 10% GDP decline and we are again in a group of countries with Greece, Italy and Spain that will suffer the most. Clearly in the government, they will say that they are not responsible for the coronary virus nor for this crisis, and that this crisis has affected all EU countries without exception. However, when we look at forecasts for some other countries where GDP will fall to 4 or 5%, we can view these figures with a certain jealousy, knowing that their governments and their economic policies have been better and more successful than our government's policies and not a little more successful than twice as successful. Similarly, previous crises have taught us that our economic recovery lasts up to three times longer than the more successful and stable European economies. All indications are that we will look at the same scenario and now, we can all thank this government for failing to implement the necessary reforms in our mandate. As far as this rebalancing is concerned, I also said through the replica, and its indicators, it is clear that the elections at the door do not reduce budget spending by a single kuna. On the other hand, there is an enormous drop in budget revenues, about 23 billion kuna, and that is 16%, but these are just forecasts that are now more based on astrology than on reliable and final indicators, so we will learn the real truth and the state of things only after the election. What we are particularly concerned about is the decline of 500 million kuna in the EU aid item, this is particularly strange given all the information coming from the government that the EU will come up with programmes and allocate countries special means to combat the economic consequences of the crisis. The reduction in this revenue item also shows what and what extent investment funding is, in fact, an investment financed by EU funds, and we believe that such a conceptual approach in the fight against this economic crisis is wrong. In the European budget, Croatia has so far paid 21 billion kuna since we became a member, so far we have not been celebrated in withdrawing funds from the EU and stopping projects now that we are at the end of a multi-annual financial framework seems irrational. What is still worrying us about in the overall economic picture of Croatia is the expected decline in exports by 15%, while at the same time increasing imports of 12%, so our external trade balance that is not brighter and worsen anyway. Of course, with all these threats and galloping the rise of unemployment. The government forecasts are that this rate will rise from 6.6% to 9.5%, we in MOST personally think that the situation in reality will be worse, and since we started opening borders we can expect to return to Croatia a solid number of our people who have moved out of Croatia in recent years, and now they could be out of a job that they once went to. The measures to preserve jobs, so-called jobs, will also expire soon. And then we'll just start facing the right proportions of this crisis and the consequences for the citizens. So I asked Minister Maric in the replica not to tell me and assess how he is experiencing the atmosphere of citizens, whether they are positive or negative, I didn't think he was some kind of psychologist who should answer such questions. I asked him on concrete financial indicators if they are, and it will be much worse in the 9th and 10th months, it is clear that the mood of Croatian citizens and their existence will be threatened and it is clear why this government is pushing the elections now and why until yesterday, those in self-insulation were bioterrorists, and today they are those who are called to the polls, all they need is to put a mask on their faces. So, what does it matter here? MOST has all the time proposed concrete measures that applied to this period of quarantine and impasse in economic social life, but some of our measures are also measures for the day after we leave quarantine to make economic recovery and take off faster, more dynamic and powerful. Our measures follow a real change, a change of paradigm, a change in how the state applies to the economy and the private sector in the first place, treating it as a partner and a partner, not as a sheep for cutting and a rag for living. For now, the state has taken over the burden of crisis, the burden of liquidity and the burden of a good share of workers' wages. We will pay this burden through an increase in public debt, will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including those who will come to this world, children who are due today or tomorrow to be born, and we will pay for it for years after this pandemic of the Coronal Virus ends. We've been talking all this time about respected public sector savings ministers, especially at local and county level. The crisis has clearly shown that counties are no longer meaningful, no role, that they are only disturbing and slowing development and that they need to be abolished without mercy. So, the Republic of Croatia is a country, I remind you all here, of barely 4 million people and it's quite enough that it has two levels of government, central and local, and that both of them are effectively organised, that their powers are not overlapping and that they work for the benefit of citizens, not for the sake of petty private breakthroughs of local party boundaries. Our vision of the Republic of Croatia is clear. A vision of the Republic of Croatia with strong cities and municipalities and a strong central state. Those who propose regions, we all know that there will be nothing of it, never will Dubrovnik agree to be under Split, never will Zadar agree to be under Split, never will Sibenik agree under Zadar and never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka. So, from the region there's nothing, it's a missed concept. A much better concept is a strong central state, strong cities and municipalities without counties as some kind of, I would say, just a transfer of money, and in that transfer there is much, much loss. We see how, on incompetent actually mayors, on incompetent personnel like Mr. Sanader, Boban and others who have enabled this chaos that is happening now in Split and Split-Dalmatia County. We need an immediate removal of parafiscal duties, we suggested it here, the abolition, while at least this crisis, membership fees for HGK and HTZ, you refused. So at this point, we have 448 different parafiscal burdens that take the economy and citizens nearly 9 billion kunas. That money should be given to the citizens, that money should be given to the entrepreneurs. So, we only suggested that two parafiscal charges be abolished, and that would leave about 600 million kuna in the pockets of Croatian citizens. We are also disappointed by the fact that the government has rejected our proposal that entrepreneurs should only permanently pay VAT when they charge their invoices, not that such a rule applies in only 3 months. And what I have to say in the end, I wouldn't be too long. This government is constantly working in the interest of banks. Here at HS colleagues Bačić, a colleague of Grozdana Perić, defended banks, not Croatian citizens. They stopped here and stood up as bank lawyers. What we urgently need, which was done by Slovenia, by the moratorium on loans and interest. The first measure Slovenia adopted in March was a moratorium on loans and interest. What did this government do? We suggested this in February. This government has brought a moratorium to implementation in April of the month and only until the election. So, if you had brought it as Slovenians in March to the election when you planned it, that measure would have expired. This shows how much you care about Croatian citizens. The only thing you care about is your election result, and there's nothing we can do about it, and we won't get back together. Here in HS and in the public we will serve Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, we will account for it, and you will continue to serve banks, you will continue to watch some of your future arrangements, you will continue to watch some of your loans, and we will only take our bills to the dear God and the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205906	The next debate is on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished representatives Radin and Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. "Anus Horribilis" could be called, it could be called this year, a terrible year. The impact of the coronary pandemic on the health, social and economic system is extremely negative throughout the world, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, Zagreb and its surroundings hit the strongest earthquake in the past 140 years on 22 March 2020, causing major infrastructure damage and additional pressure on functioning public services, on the functioning of public services. Following this, of course, there was a huge decline in GDP, of 9.4%, with all components on the spending side of GDP except state spending to record a decline. If we look at the situation in the EU, we'll see that we didn't do well here, so 9.4%, and in the EU they were lighter and they wrote 9.1%, but also 9.1% puts us in 4th place from behind. Only Spain, Italy and Greece are behind us for GDP damage. The share of public debt in GDP in 2020 will grow by 13.5% compared to 2019, which will be 86% or 87% of GDP and the unemployment rate will be 3.3%. So like I said before, "annus horribilis". The lack of general budget will, of course, produce a pay drop, writes a moderate wage drop, but whether or not it will be moderate, we will see. The new plan in 2020 will also lack the general budget, which will amount to 8 GDP or 28.9 billion kuna according to the national methodology. The expenditure of the 2020 budget shall be kept at the same level as the total amount of 147.3 billion kuna. And now we're going to do what's interesting to us from the national minorities. The National Minorities Council, according to the new proposal for a state budget, will have reduced funds, but only 0.3%, and it will all refer to a reduction in the administration's item, not donations to national minority associations. On the other hand, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Funds for the office will decrease by 4.3%, but not for programmes for national minorities where funds are reduced by only 0.1%. So in other words, to say how I see this thing, there was a fact that almost four years of 3.5 years since the election, the operational plan for national minorities has actually been achieved to the extent that we consider insufficient and that now in the finals they have to be done and certain projects have to be completed. These projects concern what ensures the survival of the identity of national minorities or at least an attempt because we will never stop saying that those who believe that national minorities are given too much money to come to us and we will prove to them with a pen and paper that national minorities in order to really keep their identity and their cultural autonomy should have far more resources than they have now. But it's been that way for years, so we'll keep that in mind. There are some things in this budget that are obviously a mistake, e.g. One new item is actually an old item and it is the famous Italian school Leonardo da Vinci from Buje, reconstruction and addition of the school where it is written that an increase of 7 million 895 thousand kuna is planned. No increase is planned, in fact, what happened constantly in the operational plan for national minorities, we are being downloaded, so the item has been downloaded from this budget and reintroduced and reintroduced and it looks like it's one big increase in the budget on that item. I'd like to be such an increase, but not an increase is actually a zero. Also, of course in that horrible year we are in that horrible year, we are grateful that it has been retained, as we are grateful that it was held in the Ministry of Culture held funds for the publishing house “Edit” which is the only one, and only one minority has its daily presses that is the Italian minority, it is obvious evidence that the funds are actually in the extreme line insufficient, but we are grateful that in that year it is still... contained in... minorities and in the Ministry of Culture. You, Mr. Vice President, will now give your word to Mr. Bilek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205908	Dear Representative Bilek, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few months ago, we really talked in a completely different direction. When we were making this state budget, we predicted only growth of those 2.5%, we had good indications, we were doing some things proposals for new projects, cooperation programmes for the withdrawal of European funds, unfortunately here's what happened, something we couldn't expect. Now the projections are quite different, the projections have received one negative connotation, but when we compare everything and look at the situation with the health situation in the Republic of Croatia is much better than some other countries, so we can thank the rapid reactions of both government and headquarters, but above all, all of our citizens who have followed and all the services that have done this big part of the job. It worked immediately at the beginning with the first measures, second, third measures, etc., of course in the first hand, and HS granted approval to make redistributions in that case. The redistributions were correct, they went straight to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it had stopped then, if the state had closed down then, if she hadn't let the money go into circulation, what would have happened? Then what some here said would happen, then 500,000 unemployed would happen, then there would be a huge decline in GDP, an increase in debt, a borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, and a question at all if we got out of a crisis like this. We are now even in some better trends than some EU member states, not to say some countries in the neighbourhood, but that is because it has been invested. So the government didn't close the valve, so let's call it, the Ministry of Finance and all the rest of the state budget followed the needs of the market, the funds came to the expense of companies, trades, companies, OPGs, all those who could and requested government measures. This did not stop consumption given how much it could have been blocked entirely in the shuttle down we still had certain things, construction firms and some others that were doing their processes, but we did get to this. We have come to the fact that we have to change the items in the Croatian state budget so that we can continue such a trend that is not good, is not good for anyone in the world, unfortunately it is not good for us either, but in this situation it may be the best that it can be. Such a trend as the Government as well as our ministries, but also state-owned companies are still in the process of telling the investment cycle where our domestic companies are employed, where they are being built, where everything that can be done for people to earn their salaries, to make companies work. So are our counties, our cities in this part of here are secured 2 billion kunas of unscathed borrowing for local self-government units, more than 2 billion kunas, which will help breathe and continue all projects. Let us not forget that projects of local importance, regardless of whether to build homes, whether to edit roads, whether it is kindergarten or anything else where our domestic construction companies are also projects of sustainable development for all citizens in these areas, but also for the breathing of the economy. Without that, there are no salaries, no payments, no health care, no systems, but no spending means no business for trade, production and everything else. And that's exactly how the state invested in production, not only in the consumer part but in the production because the funds went directly to our citizens. As for achieving the rights of national minorities and as far as the state budget is concerned, aware that some items will suffer this situation, aware that there will be no power to implement certain programmes and projects that we have drawn up, but it has been monitored in the budget, we knew that some items will not be sustainable. But I'm glad that about creating assumptions and cultural autonomy as regards the Council for National Minorities that we have succeeded in the dialogue to prove that this is a fundamental matter for the functioning, not only of the associations and institutions of national minorities but of the cultural but also of the rest of the lives of our citizens in this area because there are also grounds for the lives of people, the existence of institutions, such as... The Daruvar, which is in any or "Edit" spoken of by his colleague, is in any earthquake in the financing of these funds. People get paid, people lose their jobs on that side, that's what's important. Also in my earlier question, the Minister of Finance in fulfilling the obligations under the signed contracts, I received the answer that these obligations will be respected, that this part of the reserve is being held, so it is in this budget rebalancing. On that side, I'm glad that we can safely go to further months that may not be as promising as we'd like to be because of course we don't know what's waiting for us in the 10th, 11th month, but we have some basic security measures to go. On the other hand, there are measures through three ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, which are used again in the areas of national minorities by all citizens regardless of what nationality they are. There are several gaps, so we talked about this part in private, I believe there have been some errors in the ministries, some of the ministries in coordination are about it if we need to invest some amendments, but I believe that we will communicate it on both sides and afterwards support the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205910	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205911	Thank you very much. As I mentioned to the minister, somehow there was an expectation that catching with a crisis means a lot more engagement, is one thing, we've learned already in the past, we can do denial all the time, I'm going to cut down some of my spending, I'm going to stop what I might have planned, I'm going to stay in some frames, but it's already proved as in any family budget, there's no progress, but there you are, you're just hanging in there, you're simply in that frame that you've given, and whatever needs you can't move forward, you're not moving. Now here, speaking of the state budget, we can also talk in a regular normal procedure when the economy is in its swing, when it has its accumulation, it is making investments, of course with the government's budget spending giving additional components of GDP, but this time that component is lagging out, our industrial production is falling, totaling GDP looking, meaning import-export elements, what we're talking about, and the commission has found that we are among the four countries that are going to have the biggest GDP decline of over 9%. So, we have Italy, Spain, and don't take me for the fourth word. So all of these other countries have a significantly smaller decline, the declines range between 5% and 9%. We're the ones who end up shaking the most... When we break and there is now where the budget rebalancing should be, will this be the one that I think is necessary in the sight of a desire ruling to dissipate the parliament or will be the next to come with a delay where we are wasting extra time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's necessary that when we touch that, when we hit the bottom, we can go up there, and that's what's important is how much we give. Who may have followed a little bit of Germany, the German Minister of Finance, what does he require? It also requires additional borrowing, means an increase in their borrowing in Germany so that they can inject their economy as strongly as possible to remove them as soon as possible. So we have two, two worlds. One is so developed, let's say a concept that has already shown its success and that is why we always take Germany for an example in which direction we should think, but on the other hand, so we always do the opposite, always looking at how we're going to make savings. Saved up somewhere, moved somewhere else. The maximum range of the budget is we're gone, we're here. So we have increased needs, and our budget is in the same frames. Now, are we gonna make a move with those funds? Hard, hard, even the way I think. But two components would stand out which, for which our citizens and entrepreneurs had the highest expectations, are the component of the Ministry of Agriculture and the component of the Ministry of Economy. Agriculture has been discussed a great deal, meaning that certain sectors of agriculture will have significant difficulties where support for small, especially smaller agricultural economies has been discussed, and there have been many during these two months of initiatives, attempts. In the end, this rebalance shows actually direction. The total budget for agriculture will increase by 0.6%. It was you that all this crisis was worth, right now it's 0.6% to the government. They believe it is necessary to add to the agriculture sector to resolve all this together. Impossible, simply impossible, no, we can't do that, especially that we live in areas that are extremely agricultural aware that any economic operator, say by 0.6% to give you cash, what now on account, what are we going to do, what would be the answer? Here, don't thank me. Don't do that, there's probably going to be a condition that's going to be even more burdensome to us, it's either simple or we've got a real shift or we're not moving. So these funds from the Ministry of Agriculture didn't go into the luft before, they were also contained in, in investments, in agricultural consumption, for agricultural progress, and now we should say by 0.6 let's change the current situation. Alid, I'm going to go local now, so look back at the area I come from as representative of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, minus 37% on funds. Puff! So, that policy goes, we help that area to advance it, to reach it, it's experienced with the first one, with the first disorder that happens tectonically. So, when the Republic of Croatia sneezes a little bit, and it's actually very coughing compared to other countries, then Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem get pneumonia. Here, this is about the message that is sent through this, and especially when we come through rural development measures where somehow the potential of retreating in these areas in a greater minus, 86 million kuna is predicted where the primary reduction of the component from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, somehow it seems to me that this rebalancing under the name of the crown will cover those gaps that as a state we had in withdrawing EU funds that would simply say, will now be asked for an excuse under the crown. But if we were to explain what the crown is, and what the funds are, then we would see, we weren't successful in withdrawing the funds so far, that the story that we've been told about success is actually experiencing the collapse now is impossible that we haven't withdrawn those funds in these two months, we haven't pulled them in the previous time, and now we're just going to clean them out of this budget. One entrepreneurial, like this, note, OKFŠ, common useful functions of the forest, not tax giving, popularly called parafiscal impose paid by entrepreneurs. Now there's been so much pressure, there's a desire to reduce something there, at that position there's an increase of 36 million kuna, so these funds are still significantly higher, and instead of showing up this intention we're going to do something about where they're pushing it, even if it's one symbolic reduction that doesn't break that balance between the foresters, but it comes out to the entrepreneurs. It's this item that shows direction that no one wants, and that's, let's go, there's an increase. No, it won't increase the fee, but it just shows that there are more funds than it is, so 30% is increasing. The economy, colleague Horvat, has lost 13%, 400th and a few million kunas. Ha, if we were to compare it to maybe some other countries somewhere, and he would say, "I'm leaving this government to be taken by someone and hit by 13%, I need to go around defending the government's economic policy." It's not just the Ministry of Finance to defend economic policy, it's also the minister of the economy that's expected as a member of the government that the one that promotes economic policy and he needs to say here, we're going to do our best, we're going to cut 13%, but that's people, all right, no problem, that's exactly what you're expecting, we're going to cut down, and you're going to cut something, we're all falling again. Investment support, total budget -30%, OPC, means from the EU but pairs what I was saying about agriculture, -320 million kuna, of which from regional development 319. 22% below the point of strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises -37%. Even the stock supplies we're on in those measures when we've adopted it, let's go buy products, fill in stock supplies to help out what, especially products that don't have a market... to keep it, so it's a pure offer and demand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reduce the position of the offer, demand, if there has been a reduction, demand for prices to remain balanced, withdraw from the market of certain goods, therefore stock supplies can serve, -59 million kuna. I don't know, whatever I touch here, it's actually controversial to adopt this kind of budget rebalance that doesn't really show that we're actually through the budget, so we say our pants off to help the economy, help all the components that exactly those components of GDP that make up, let the entrepreneurial part be emphasized. This way there won't be any more significant wage cuts, I see that's how it is at the level of a collective contract, so it goes to be kept back through the consumption of citizens by that component. A decline in industrial production, a failure to invest what we can expect, 9.4%, we might say, we'd be happy to keep it that way. When someone says next year it's going to be 6.1%, I'd just ask the question, is it from 31.12.2019 and is it 6.1% from that level, or are we going to fall to the bottom first and then we're going to fall 6.1% to the bottom. No, I know, it makes sense, but when you present it to people in one title, this year we fall 9.4%, we grow 6.1 per year, it's not the same base. It's not 100%, so let's go, now we're down 9.4 so we're going to grow to 106 commas something. It's not like that. We're going at 92.8, add 6. A little math now, but when the papers show it, it's like we're 3% different. It's not a 3% difference. Here's to the end, always the part that we look less at this particular part of the budget, but we also need to look at the other ones that are users of that state budget. And something I noticed in the Croatian highways, they explained that they gave up planned procurement for investment maintenance and construction because traffic load was reduced. So it turns out that our roads, since there was no traffic, I don't know, trucks or cars during these two months, are actually in great shape, that there's no need. Walk a little towards Slavonia, colleague Hajdukovic is driving there so he may not reach that part behind, but there he is, so the highway has failed, which should be invested intensively, means only investment-based, not one new building that needs to be maintained. I say we give up because there's no traffic, so it doesn't make sense, let's go now that it's less traffic, let's go rebuild it and be ready to increase that, but, look, that's something I've noticed like that. Croatian roads, expenditures of non-financial assets -17%, on fast roads, I will, again, say so little locally, from a srijem transversal much to be talked about, definitely nothing and will make one remark and exactly the Ministry of Finance about the clarification, when Croatian roads give their plan, which we have adopted, and indicate some of the infrastructure, key infrastructures they want to build, then also, when they are doing rebalancing and reducing, should specify which projects they give up. Because like this, we should now ask you, what projects they're giving up and you'll say, here, I don't know, what, ask Minister Butkovic, he should know or someone from the Croatian Roads. Then let's go out with it, that 110 million kuna of fast roads, where is it? What are those fast roads, what are the rest of them, that are left out? And I'm curious, and I'd like to know that information, too, here's the question, so I hope the Ministry's representative will communicate with it when he has his own insight that he can point out. This is how we should vote on something, I can't vote if it concerns something that might be of interest to an area, especially if I come from that area. And another ambitious plan, in the CERP, sales of shares in companies, is something that is constantly going on by each government, always opening certain names of certain companies because they are of particular importance, less special, there are discussions, and then predicting each year something goes on in so-called. privatisation and there is income from that position, for this year 25 million is planned. Now we have an increase of 55 million kuna. So, in terms of economic downturn, we're willing to sell state property and that significantly higher share than planned, then I'm just asking the question of whether the planned prices will be realized? If there is a crisis right now, I know that there is access to financial resources, but is there enough economic activity and economic operators who would be interested in entering such investments or certain funds that would want us to achieve such growth? It means that CERP should practically increase its engagement by 2/3 and make sales, and that's just to settle the budgeting. I'm just afraid that we're not going to be in the direction again to quickly collect some cash, so the less we have to be in debt, and later after a certain time we'll be discussing whether in a year or two we could achieve a significantly better price of the price being realized in 2019, when the pro-pulsively any situation in the economy was certainly a better basis for achieving a better price than now when we have such a significant degradation where caution suggests that the offered amount should not be too exposed to being realistically lower than those that would be in the run of the economy or on the rise. Here, these were some thoughts and in the name of our club, in fact that there are no of these choices then we would probably discuss it in more detail, and this is now going to be quick to survive election time, and then the real budget will be discussed by some, rebalance of some new calling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205912	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205913	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the amending budget for 2020. Of course the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Every time we discuss budgets or changes, we don't have a very big audience and we don't have that much interest, although it's a basic document of one country, from which everything is seen and from which everything can be read and trends and guidelines, and I think that all paragraphs are insufficient and spoken and insufficiently. This budget rebalance stemmed from everything that is happening in our environment in the world, and surely it would not have happened so early that the impact of this particular pandemic did not have such a negative effect on economic activity, and then also on the general situation. In this budget rebalancing, it is evident that the total expenditure has been kept at a level or slightly higher than, for 326 million kuna and they amount to, therefore, 141.5 billion kuna, while revenues are lower, as already said, by 23.2 billion kuna or 121.95 billion kuna. What the hell was that about? Well, everything that's been done and what we've done in 3.5 years, we've achieved precisely to bring the state of finance, state finances in line, to enable certain growth. You see, one small virus actually brought down everything that's 3.5 years old. It worked hard. The aim of surely the Ministry of Finance and the Government is not to provoke what some colleagues advocate some great consumption but to first redistribute to enable all of those projects, which is precisely this way when the cost of maintaining the economy and, and, and businesses, and then actually with debt, is to enable all those projects, which are ongoing not to stop but to move on. So that's when you rely primarily on your own forces, and then if that's not enough, then you can move on. We are witnessing that the government has gone to several stages, so the March measures, so the April measures and it is quite understandable and rational because in this way, all the possible difficulties that can happen during life or here in these two months were assessed and in this way, in cooperation with all ministries, with entrepreneurs, with citizens in the end line, were seen where it is necessary and how it works. And with what has been done so far, what has been done has proved to be absolutely correct, completely quality, timely, and in this way has just stopped those black scenarios as some and what some would have wished, so that we have many hundreds of thousands of unemployed and much more and social and other problems. What is seen from the budget itself is that it was in that part of any subsidy, whether it is given to households or entrepreneurs, it is seen that it has provided maximum funding, and as I said at the outset it was a redistribution of 2.1 billion kuna within the budget itself, so that here it would now be further secured up to 6.7 billion kuna, which is then forecasting a period and by finally 30th to June of this year. What's going on in this period? It is already mentioned normally that GDP will fall, it is something that is inevitable and happening, not only to us but to all countries in Europe and the world, but when you look at the components exactly what I've just said and the structure of GDP, then it is seen that this is exactly the state's consumption that is not falling even though all other parameters are particularly negative except for imports of goods and services. But when you look again at what it contains then in that import of services and goods, a significant component is just imports of energy. We have seen that there have been many proposals in which to improve the situation, they have competed with proposals as much as possible in one way or another, but these precisely these measures and the laws that we have adopted have shown that cold heads should have been pushed away very well and aimedly allowed to be given direct budgetary support, and also to enable both the economy and the public to reach their breath and ultimately to propose in all this. What I personally think is that we will get out of this crisis much sooner and faster than it was the financial crisis in 2008-2009 and when we speak here now and when we speak colleagues about what we are doing, so this is exactly what the conditions are changing at, and I think, although the scenario has been very conservative, but I believe that if we keep a certain level of discipline that can in this way be run now from June to June, then on, start and tourism, and certainly the economy. We need to be very careful here, what epidemiologists warn us about, so we need to stick to the rules of conduct and take good care of it in everyday life, as well as in business life. When we speak within the state budget itself, changes have also occurred in the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it is seen that the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money markets has changed from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion kuna. There has also been a change in art. 3.In current debt repayments, the total annual value of financial guarantees is also changed from 3800 to 4800 billion kuna, and the HBOR guarantee fund has also increased from 60 to 140 million kuna. It is important to say that special attention is also given to the law on enforcement. 6. where new employment is limited, i.e. it must be taken into account to limit only the necessary cases, and this is a time when both the Government and all ministries are taking great care of their capacity and capabilities. I would point out that it was precisely from this period when, in the short term, it was made possible and with the earthquake that it was, so we know that some ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, have no working conditions, how fast and quality the situation was adjusted, as in the shortest possible time, other services allowed and made a billion-and-a-half kuna aid paid to employees of the company over 84,000 companies. So I think that this speed has certainly shown that we are both capable and that we can make big steps whenever we want and when we need it. In particular, I would like to point out that the Commission for Fiscal Policy has reacted in accordance with its powers, and in its previous report or position, it has said precisely that it can deviate from fiscal rules, so in such cases as these were possible and it can be done to deviate from these numerical rules and to allow the state to be in charge above what was planned until then, according to the criteria of how the Fiscal Responsibility Act was determined. Thus, it has been shown that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have really responded correctly, that it has acted according to all the rules of the profession and that, in this way, when some criticise how much the EU has helped Croatia, and that there are still 18 billion kuna in those aids, it has been possible to re-apply these funds with existing means of planning to the very purposes that Croatia needs, and here there is the possibility that the European Social Fund could use the exact funds that were possible for some other projects, with no project going to stop or end. Therefore, this way in which it is managed rationally not only by its means but also by European means to prove that we are responsible and in this way as a country that has reacted to the first in this way, I think that this is evidence and we can serve as an example. And I must also say that it is also through the management of this crisis situation of the virus, or COVIDA-19, that it has been proven to take great care of the health of its citizens and that it has achieved its maximum since other countries have as many as they have died, hence this great pressure as we guard these or those activities, that any activity in Croatia is important both agriculture, tourism or financial services, any activity is important because it employs people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205914	Thank you. The next is the Živni zidom club and let's change Croatia's distinguished representatives Vucelic and Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205915	Dear citizens. The living wall has been warning for years that HDZ and SDP have no strategy for the country's future, except for the borrowing and sale strategy. In 2020, by rebalancing the budget that is under discussion today, this majority in the Assembly has been bought and charged with a new borrowing from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion. 35.7 billion more, 35.7 billion that we will never be able to repay. Our citizens are expected to pay their debts, debts to which high treason policy leads. If they don't pay, they're blocked, they're done, they're taken away from their property, and they're kicked out of their homes, and they're worth even a few thousand kunas. And how will the state pay its debts? The solution to HDZ and SDP is constantly new borrowings, borrowings that neither we nor our children can repay, and since this year the borrowing of our grandchildren begins. It's clear to everyone. It's clear to all of us that year after year, we'll be living more and more poorer. What's written as collateral? Mortgage, woods, water, islands. Instead of our business of entrepreneurs and citizens funding our CNB in our currency, we continue to listen to colonial borrowing policy in foreign currency at huge interest rates. Instead of having and broadcasting our own money and paying our CNB interest, we encourage our economy, we turn from hollow to empty, at the same time becoming more and more in debt and selling out our countries and its resources, our people. How much longer? This could be the moment when we will start our economy, deal with the intrinsics, earrings and artistic organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Tourist Board, of course, and the HRT, to deal with the banking and the upcoming parliamentary elections and the political mafia. But that's not gonna happen. The Law of the Living Wall on Electronic Voting will not even be found at the debate in this session of the Parliament because it is important for this government that 50% of the people do not go to the polls. The law of the Living Wall on the examination of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property is also pushed under the carpet. It's important to keep it as it is, and as it is, it will continue. A new wave of arrests awaits us, a country with a growing population has an ever-increasing public sector. The entanglements will continue. They enable and allow this rebalance of the budget. We are expected to have a new wave of criminals who need to settle down, and they will settle down, which also confirms the appointment of a new HDZ state attorney and its policy of protecting criminals. This week's debate includes the appointments of the same team that controls public procurement operations. The job's going as good as it used to be. We are expected by a new wave of refugees, Croatian refugees who are not fleeing the war, but by crime and devastation left behind by HDZ and SDP parties, as well as their criminals and their allies. The Corona has only accelerated the consequences of catastrophic high treason policy in about a year. The question I'm getting is, can our citizens hold you for another four years? And what will be left of our land? Are we going to be left with only party voters on the state chest and normal people driven off and scattered around the world? Today, young people, tomorrow's future pensioners are waiting for the fate of national pensions and survival with 800,00 kn per month and if they ever get pensions. When will it be enough? When we get on our feet and tell the bandits enough, this is our land? The living wall will not support you in further robbery, poverty and land borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205916	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, in fact I apologize, the division, excuse me, shared the discussion of colleagues Vucelic and colleagues Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205917	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the rebalancing of the state budget. The time is crisis, and in front of the Party we change Croatia or a team of experts who have worked on this I will present our proposals and observations on this rebalancing. First, let me repeat what's been said. The rebalancing forecasts the redistribution of 2 billion and 100 million kunas because about this strategy, if the revenues of the state budget fall, and the expenditures are kept by the same amount, then the only thing that can be done is to make redistributions on the side of the expenditure, so that something can be done. But, you see, the expenditures don't go down by $1.00, and they can be reduced, they can be reduced, and I'm sorry there isn't a minister here. As I came to this assembly here, for four years, four years ago, I was saying that I needed to refinance the overpriced state loans and bonds at the lowest interest rates now, this government started doing it seven or eight months ago, something was sewn up, but also too little and too late. My calculation shows that it's in this 4 g. It could have saved about 15 billion kuna, and it would have been extremely useful now during this crisis. I'm asking the question to this government, why didn't you do the re-financing? Why didn't you save 15 billion kunas that way? Dear citizens who are watching this, yesterday I was in a café, for the first time in two months, you know. I went to see him as a politician and an economist, and I expected there to be a lot of people. No, not a lot of people. We were only a few of us at the table for 20 minutes at a decent distance as prescribed. I'm asking the waiters what's going on? Is it because of fear or because of money? He says both. What happens when these measures stop, so this program helps after 15.6. If people are already getting help from the state, the Minimals, they hesitate, trying to spend? Of course it will be the same. Why? People are already afraid of that. Thus, it is a known situation that people’s behavior in the recession to increase savings or not to spend, spend on food, medicines, and what is necessary. So, we'll see, we'll face much bigger problems after 15.6. And that's why this government decided to call the election right early in the beginning of 7 months, while as long as it can, through its media, control its media, manage fear in people who are particularly threatened. You see, I didn't come here to convince the figures that it was about, I came on behalf of the Party to change Croatia in front of a team of experts because dear citizens, I'm sure while you're watching and monitoring the transfer of the assembly, you're looking and wondering, so who can solve this crisis, who can get us out of this economic fungi, you know? Well, I can't have people who aren't experts, you know, who have no experience, who don't understand what's coming. Where you could've saved up, listen up. You see, the concessionaires' fee for the Macelj-Zagreb highway is 188 million kuna. That's what we'll do. We pay Peter butter every year. Compensation for concessionaries for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway 67 million kuna. Who arranged it like that? Fuel fee for Croatian roads is a billion 960 million kuna. The proposal is to cut by about 100 million kunas. Fuel fee for HZ 474 million kuna, it's a bottomless bag. Fuel fee for Croatian highways, also 474 million kuna, a bottomless bag. What do we suggest, what can be done here? You see, in this sense we need to implement so-called. securitisation of the debts of Croatian highways and Croatian roads in a way, because this is an executive today, this time is an excellent opportunity, we are in a difficult situation, now big plans are made, big moves to make, means big solutions. How could the state get rid of this interest rate and capital sucking from the Croatian highways and Croatian roads? Past, the SDP government she meant to sell it, in a concession to give, etc. You don't have to. We need to securitize. They're constantly, look out, they're 15 years old. They pay off their debts, how much they owe almost nothing to the principal. Well, it's clear that these debts are thus irreparable. We propose that one billion foreign loans be paid off from foreign reserves, and the rest of it is about 3 billion to be securitised through government bonds and sold to investors by citizens' banks and all other investors. But dear citizens, they need to know how to do it, they don't know it, and they don't just know it, they don't want it. Why? Is it appropriate for some to pay so much interest to lenders and investors who bought government bonds, above all pension funds. So as you can see when I was here to solve the problem blocked within three months, the model is very simple, it's similar to this, and so is this. For these solutions, however, we must have much greater support for citizens because the profession is now called to speak. I see here come the election of dear citizens, most MPs shake. Why? So if they don't get a seat here next time in Parliament, they don't know how to do anything else, you understand, so they're shaking. Now it's time for people who are experts, determined, brave enough to mess up these nods, incompetent people and those who practically insinuate us, and I said just now that we've been paying 15 billion kuna over the past four years, we've paid no need to pay interest to banks, pension funds, domestic and foreign, etc. What else do we suggest? I won't talk about what's familiar anymore. What are our party proposals to change Croatia? So, spend your refinancing again, save 4 billion kuna a year. Furthermore, suspend payment in II. Retirement column from workers' salaries, suspend payment. I asked for it two months ago, you disobeyed. Every month, about 500 million kuna is paid into the II funds. to the pension column, stop, freeze and pay and finance the recovery of the economy. Fuel prices charges instead of HAC and Croatian highways I said should be securitised, issued to the government bond to take over, and that we all buy banks, funds, foreigners to buy and thus free Croatian roads and highways so that they can breathe and that they can pay off that debt one day. Otherwise, with a model like this, which I'm going to explain soon, I'm going to record one video, so this is how these two companies are never going to settle their debts. Furthermore, I again urge the government and the CNB to pay out helicopter money to all adult citizens of 10 billion kuna. This will not increase public debt if it is not a debt of the state but directly delivered by the central bank to each adult citizen. After that, citizens spend, thus reducing the fear of consumption, which is the most dangerous phenomenon in recession because when people don't want to spend recession, it deepens, production decreases, unemployment increases, and we sink. Our estimates are that the situation's description of how much GDP in Croatia will fall is that it is too optimistic, there will be a major decline. There are also optimistic figures on the drop in state budget revenue, especially from VAT, excise duties and other revenues. In that sense, there is no need to paint the situation better than it is. In that sense, I call you again and I warn you, don't put us abroad, for the third time I repeat here, I'm going to press charges against anyone in the government who owes us dearly, and it can be financed at 0% of the interest if it comes to kunas from the CNB and what we need foreign reserves. Foreign exchange reserves have Croatia one of the largest in the EU in terms of GDP, however, debt management policy, interest rates on its own citizens, the exhaustion of the economy, the collapse of competition on foreign markets, the unresolved judicial system, the corruption of capillaries that has developed in this society, dear citizens after all this I do not understand how the stone remains on the stone in this country. So I invite you to the elections, and I urge you to consider the future of your children and our children to whom you will give the voice to finally pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205918	Thank you. We're continuing to work on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The next one is in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's counterpart Zekanovic, who shares the debate with counterpart Glasovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205919	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I just asked the minister an extremely simple question, he avoided answering me, so I asked him another time, and now I see he's gone in the House. Now there's you, I don't expect you to answer me, but here's the question. I'll ask you a third time. Did we get any kuna from the EU in this crown crisis? Here, keep your mouth shut. I'll answer for you. So we didn't get a lipo of one of the EU, lipo, and we haven't even realised a single loan yet. And the proof of what I'm saying lies right here in the document that we're discussing here today, which is the budget rebalance for 2020, paragraph 623 of income, foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget, that's where it should be. There we had 18 billion 756 million, and now with this rebalancing we say that 502 million kunas 893 thousand kunas will be less, less. Not only has the EU not given us more money in this extremely difficult period, because we lack the rebalancing, how much, 20, 30 billion kuna, but it has also denied us money, it has reduced its donations to its member in this case Croatia. And this should be repeated and repeated. And you said you were responsible, responsible government, and you said the EU left us hanging. Don't take care of us, they don't care anymore, it doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist. Because when the European solidarity you swore 1,000 times disappeared, it disappeared into the EU. However, I will always point out that European solidarity was not there. That it was one big lie. And why you won't say this, the fact that I just said it is a simple reason. Everything you do, you do exclusively on the order of Brussels and for the purpose of Brussels, not for the purpose of the sovereign Croatian state. I will repeat that yours is a little clearer and that the viewers hear, everything you do, absolutely everything, every step, every move is directed solely by what Brussels wants, and those what the citizens of our country, Croats and Croats want. And the thing is very exact, 500 million kunas less, and we are a tourist country based almost exclusively on tourism. We are, in fact, the tourist region of Europe, and when we are out of tourism, we are gone, we will have the biggest economic downturn across the EU. That's it. We've already got it. And even though we sacrificed all production, in all others, all other activities for the EU, the EU will not help us. So what do we have from this EU? Except for the familiarity and friendship of Andrej Plenkovic. Here comes the minister, glad he's here, and I will repeat the question to the respected Minister Maric. Why haven't we got any lip from Europe so far and how do you explain these 500 million kunas less in the budget exactly in that item where it should have been? And yet to point out, there will be no countries in the EU, and perhaps in a world that will have an economic downturn greater than Croatia. He won't. It's not your fault, Minister Maric. It's not your fault, you've come into a situation that's been found, we've systematically destroyed it, or we haven't improved it in decades, you've been here for the last four years, and you're only partially responsible for taking over this sinking ship. But that is what citizens need to know, that Croatia is a country that has one strategic activity, which is tourism. And when there is no tourism, and that can happen at any time, at any time, there is neither Croatian economy nor projections are only 9% or 8%, as much as GDP is said. You know that unfortunately, it will be much, much, much larger. Much bigger. And what will happen to Croatia in a month or so, will be able to measure it in some economies after II. svt. The war. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. Andrej Plenkovic is not, nor are you Minister Maric, and who will suffer, of course. Croatian citizens, Croats and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205920	Please, one second. Time's stopped. The second part of the debate, colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205921	Dear colleagues, Mr. Maric. I, at one point, seem to have this assembly hall as a confessional, that people confess here, but you can't confess your sins, let's move on. It may be in the church, but these economic sins, mismanagement with the state, we haven't gotten rid of it. We inherited that, a dysfunctional state where every other word of corruption. Why so far have we not formed, like Romania,.../incomprehensible/... the closest to the world's issue and the question of human beings because in that country all personnel from the former state, after being... There they moved to another Romanian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have an anti-corruption directorate that works, people go to jail, but all governments. All governments have acted on a modern monetary policy to this day. Well, look, everything says they're not. That's what I'm going to mention 10 times again, what kind of master this government is, left, right wing of the party. The failed shipyards, 30 billion kuna, which each family with four members will cost the Croatian family 5,000 euros were taken from them when you put it on that tactical level. 100 billion kuna in agriculture. Where are these storage spaces,... etc., and we complain that the drought is coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to how much money we lost with these princes, Drpislavi, and there is no revision of those parts. No revisions. Read what others write about us, you have reports from other states. For example. Austria, which spoke earlier, a report 3 years ago, that the restructuring of the state, the massive public administration, failed and that corruption is still Achilles's fifth state. You've got some kind of here now, how this country, like this one, Restort coalition, I would call it the "pipl fat trast as" coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pipple fat trast as, because they have no idea and they have proven it because they're doing the same thing that does the right wing, totally dysfunctional state, to this day. Corruption is here... Mr. Lovrinović said that, and why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where Sorosha was peeled. The NGOs, the open society, they stole his money and there's just, I'd be the first, the first law there is creative accounting. So far, no major affair has been discovered and what now. The tobacco tax and alcohol will not save the Croatian state. Not on these drinks, this one, Coca-Cola, etc. What, we have an unsustainable public administration, we've been moaning for three decades. Unsustainable public administration, it's like her, a pot, put water, water leaks out with 100 holes. You have a debt of health care, I think, a debt of health is 8.5 billion kuna and is still growing. And you've all been friends and friends, you've been in power. And now the crown is coming, and now you're saving the country. Strange, strange, strange is this thinking. We're talking absolute fiscal discipline. So far, what's happened so far? Some have been acting on local self-government like drunken billionaires in Las Vegas in a casino, here. I mentioned last week, one on, one on, one on down spent down, a woman on, that's what I said, that's a good story, a woman accused him, one on there from May 1st, spent 450 kuna on the team. So who did he host, the Sheik of Dubai, whom, there, I don't know, Saudi Arabia? Nothing to anyone. There are no retroactive laws when it comes to conversion, privatisation, just smoke and smoke curtains, we haven't entered the root of corruption. How much, Mr. Maric, would you ask how grey is, what is the percentage of the grey economy in Croatia? ... is it double from the EU or how much, I don't know, but I have to, no, no, we don't need to, there's corruption in... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you also have a gray economy in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But America has 300 and a few million inhabitants plus, we have residents like the suburbs of Brooklyn. Not 300 and something million. Tourism, one-fifth, mentioned Mr. Zekanovic of our GDP, I think it depends more on tourism. What about those people who rent apartments down there and down houses that have invested heavy money, raised loans, and no income. What happens to them and what happens to that fifth of GDP? Actually, I'd say, we know what's going to be in this, uh, near future, it's until '21. Mr. and what do we know about the coronary virus? We don't really know anything. We don't know how much this debt will be, what GDP will be nominal, real GDP, how much we will be in debt, will be, will not be saved by the European Central Bank, the AMF, etc., but we ourselves and we must soon start with... the whole state system, not the taps in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said that before that this budget is like a hollow hole, water leaks, doesn't exactly hold arguments because we're going to be in charge again. What's going to be the percentage of the debt we don't know, we can only guess, but we're still in charge. Here, there's no long-term strategy, I'd say, I'd compare the budget as long-term, all short-term. When you see in Croatia, a family house, a family house, upstairs live for 3 generations, and under the house put a small store that sells everything, from hemorrhoid cream to auto parts, would immediately earn money. No, that's not how it works. Well, we don't even have a medium-term strategy for economic development. So, who will come to invest here, give me two examples of Greenfield investments in Croatia. They took over the Czech auto-industry, the Slovaks, they were supposed to be in Lica. So who will come to a country where at every level you have bureaucracy as in ancient China and every, every, this branch of that tree, the rotten one is wanted bribe, bribe and hunt, and now look who will come when, if the average investment cycle is 5, 10 years, and you change the laws, you change every year. You, left, right wing of the party. Who will come to you here? No one's coming. That is, just, this, I don't want this to be a nagging, but we need to move things quickly. Specific things either, or we're waiting for the same thing that happened to that failed experiment, that union of Southern Slavs where it was, inflation was me thinking bigger than almost Venezuela. Only two countries had more inflation, it's Zimbabwe and Brazil, it's in the '90s, I don't know how much longer the former "South" we're paying, it's about $9 billion, it's not said. What do you say? But I would just mention, Mr Bernardić when he mentioned, uh, recently one terminology, it called it when some real termology that was abused by Mr Bernardic was not, not this rectal these climbers but rectal climbers were old characters who had already entered deep into the state system from the old country, former members of the party, these are, rectal climbers, but those who are now coming, younger frames that are licking into the left, right-wing wrong parties, they are anal alpinists who are entering that hatch now and they want to be profiled through these two parties, left, right-wing party, these are anal alpinists, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205922	Okay. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. I'll remind you that the debates on behalf of the clubs take 15 minutes, individual debates take five minutes. Next is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please welcome colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is a budget rebalancing which none of us wanted and would all be happy, of course, if we didn't have to do it because it was caused by a crisis that affected the whole world and against which the Croatian Government is fighting in all indicators, quite successfully, which I want it to continue to be even more successful in order to protect people's health first, and secondly, what has been said since the beginning, jobs and economic activity. And for these very reasons, as it has been said, it is working out, out of increased isolation for the protection of human health, to help the economy or employees in order to preserve jobs, for the sake of falling of course and economic activity, we are forced, as the minister himself said in his opening statement, in the first half of the year, in principle to do budget rebalancing. What marked this entire mandate of the government in all the discussions so far on budgets and rebalancing was tax discharge, both citizens and economies. Today we have a situation that for the first time in the state budget, we have returned money to those who paid it into the state budget and who paid it. About 7 billion kunas are said here to be that amount. There's no such thing as great wisdom. The crisis is here, it had to intervene, the budget has to be rebalanced, we need to adapt to the situation in which the state found itself. Of course, for these reasons, I would like to say firstly that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB will support budget rebalances. The minister says the unemployment rate is projected to rise to around 9.5%. I will remind, not so long ago, of a different crisis, much smaller than the current crisis, because this one, this one, is about the health and life of citizens, that is, in the term of the previous government, or the previous one, I am not talking about the one between the government for a few months, when it was 2011. The unemployment rate was 13.7% to 16.3% in 2015. So, these are some indicators that are on the table and we have to compare, especially those that criticise the government's work of course, we have to compare those times, we have to compare the success of the then Government in a crisis situation, I say to a different crisis situation with the adoption of the current government in this current crisis situation. It is obvious that this government has done so much better and more effectively. The expenditure savings are, of course, there, and I am pleased to see that, however, I was concerned about not making too much savings at the expense of investments, that projects such as the 2012 case should not be stopped. when some projects were announced to be stopped, when certain decisions had already been made, when the chariots of various letters had been made that the construction of a fast road from Cugovec to Križevci would be stopped and that the existing what was built would be preserved. I am pleased here today that the Government has the courage to continue with projects, with such projects, among which there are so many here in the Croatian Assembly, but also in the premises of Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovar-Bilogor County mentioned "Podravski Ipslon" and the continuation of its construction. And because of the citizens in the area and because of the economy in the area of which this continuation is of vital importance, it is worth saying here that I am glad, and in some answers today, the minister has indicated this, that this project will continue and continue. I've given myself a little effort, so I've been collecting some data on the use of European water supply and disposal funds. According to the data I received, the period from 2017 to the end of 2019 is 4 times higher than the year 2009. by the end of 2016 When I talk four times bigger then I'm talking about 3.5 billion and I'm talking about 14 and some billion kuna, and that's what I'm happy about in this part of it because I think that without continuing investment, without using European money to hire the Croatian economy, we can hardly hope for a break-out, faster extraction from that part of the crisis that comes after we believe and hope to stop the spread of the coronary virus. I am also pleased that this budget rebalance is not abolished either, that the activities and constructions and the Belarusian agglomerations and the dwarves and the koprivnica and the crusades continue. A billion and 200 million kunas are the only 4 agglomerations of investment and investment in the areas I'm talking about. For all the reasons that I have stated, I have only cited a few of them, I repeat, our club will support this budget rebalance, congratulate the government on the successful fight with this crisis and wish that we will get out of it as soon as possible and start restoring the economy and hope to awaken the optimism of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205924	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is counterpart Emil Daus outside the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go, colleague Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205925	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of HS, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are aware that it is not easy to rebalance the state budget in a situation as it is today with many unknowns and uncertainty. And we will try as always to be above the daily political turmoil and pre-election campaign that has already begun and try to focus on the subject of the budget, but also on everything that is attached to it. I must admit that I personally thought that this corona crisis would wake us all up a little bit more together, that we would realize that it was very little to change everything and that we would finally get priorities, both economically and socially. That after the virus and the earthquake, we realize how small and how few we are and how together we can do something good for this country. But no, some just waited for the situation to calm down a little so they could go back to their already haunted phrases, procedures, no matter how much they hurt society, because it's easier to share people than to create a community. But when we talk about the budget and the management of public money, which is the subject of this point, it's kind of an impression, and not just now, but for decades, that it's always going the easy way because it's easier to sail down the wind. But they don't always blow the wind in the desired right direction, sometimes they have to turn back on it, board the opposite. And that's what's actually been missing for many years, making tough decisions that lead in the right direction. The so-called reforms that are being talked about, but the real ones, the real ones are actually lagging behind. There is no reform of the public administration, the reduction of the costs of the administration itself and its ineffectiveness, which generates a new additional cost, we are far from it. There is no reform of the industry by the outdated or those failed in the modern world industry. We still do not have an environment that will attract sustainable development-based investments, green energy and no agricultural reform. It would only be enough for the last 30 years to be abandoned and healed agricultural land to feed the whole country, and Croatia is importing food. I understand when it comes to tropical fruit, but potatoes, onions, salad, apples, peaches, that's a shame. And if we do not reduce and eliminate unnecessary expenditures in the public sector, nor do we invest a systematic tool in what will energize us and return multiple funds, which will create added value in our society then no rebalancing makes much sense, then they become just form, not content. Because it turns out that whenever something goes bad, the only answer for most Croatian governments is to cover the lack of income by additional borrowing. This is a pattern from the 1990s and does not stop, although occasionally a temporary flash occurs where, on the one hand, it is fairly responsible for managing public finances and should be honest and there should be commendation for the work of the current ministry headed by Minister Maric, but it should also be told the truth, which is that on the other hand, and enough happiness has been what took several years in the wider environment a good economic situation which was not the result of the systemic approach itself, at least not in the most part. But happiness has its own deadline, and as soon as it's scratched again, we're in charge again. And we wouldn't have to if we were to create values in our own backyard, but someone's importing and trading is more important than exports and production. And the more it is said to love Croatia, the less Croatian it is itself. It's actually the greatest defeat of our society. And it's not a subject or not at least the Ministry of Finance itself, but a much wider economy and agriculture and administration and the whole society as a whole. We do not want to be hypocrites, besides the IDS supported measures to help the economy realize that it requires a large amount of funds that are difficult to compensate for new revenues and it is right that Croatia has decided that health and human lives are ahead of profits, but on the other hand we do not play generals after the battle because we have been repeating the same thing for years. Domestic production, especially the agricultural foundation is Croatia's development with a special emphasis on product quality, tourism has too much of a share in GDP, it is not good, it needs to share the risk on several major industries. Let's finally turn to new technologies, when the situation has forced us in a month, it's been done in the digitization of society more than in 10 years, so it can be done. The development is based on sustainability not on extra profits of individuals, and nature is increasingly sending warnings to us, so let's finally listen to it. It is clear that there are not many of us, that we are not large and Croatia cannot compete with quantities, but it can certainly do with quality. It has great natural and human resources for it, and it can be done, not overnight, but it can be done. My colleagues and colleagues, along with all the troubles and challenges, this unfortunate pandemic is a kind of opportunity, an opportunity we talked about several times in front of the IDS club, and we thought it would be recognized and exploited. And it was an ideal time to start implementing real real reforms. And it may sound a little naive, but I'm convinced deep down that they would get even a lot of support from a large number of citizens if they know which direction and which way to go. But according to the good old one, when the elections are not too slow then the expenditure remains at least until the next rebalance, incomes are compensated by additional borrowing, only what is the problem with us in Croatia every so many elections, and borrowings will unfortunately become more expensive on the financial market. And that's the problem with most Croatian budgets, we're afraid that's going to be the same with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205926	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The following registered counterpart Boris Milosevic is in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, please welcome counterpart Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205927	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The rebalancing is coming to us much earlier this year than we used to in our earlier years. Normally and initially said in these discussions that the SDSS Club can assess positive overall fiscal policy results for the year in which we are discussing rebalancing, at least as far as the mandate of this government is concerned, no one can deny that we were doing well. And last year in the debate, on last year's rebalancing, I commented that with rebalancing compared to the original budget for 2019. We foresee an increase in tax revenues due to favourable economic developments. But that was, so just a few months ago, now a few months later we're talking about completely different circumstances, completely different conditions. After the 20th quarter growth we have a situation instead of continuing this trend, instead of growing about 3% as predicted in the 12 months of last year, we will at best have a decline that is foreseen by this rebalancing of 9.4%, but the big question is whether or not it will be. It's not about the intention of this rebalancing, it's not about the ability of this government, we simply can't know with certainty what they're carrying next months, is there going to be a new wave of epidemics, are we going to have to reintroduce the longdown, what the situation in the world will be, will we be able to travel and cross the borders, will there be air transports, what countries will be open that won't, where there will be an epidemic, how many countries that are important to us partners that our economy depends on, and in the end what season will be? There's a lot of questions, and no one has an answer. When we look at it, we are changing the State Budget Act for this year to help JLS, to help HZMO, to help HZZO, to cover income tax, to cover taxes, to cover taxes, to contribute where the taxpayer is free of payment, or payment has been delayed or payment specified in meals. We are changing the law to give the Minister of Finance authority to, with the government's consent, be more than what was found to be the level of borrowing, and all with a view to actually avoiding the occurrence of adverse consequences for the normal functioning of the state in 2020. We also amend the Accounting Act to extend the deadlines for the submission of financial reports and the boss of accompanying financial documents that entrepreneurs must file, submit. So, the whole, but the whole system that we've had for years is now no longer valid under these conditions. Nobody slows it down. We, too, have debated in HS over the past two months according to the Bureau's agreement, not according to the current Rules of Procedure. This rebalancing is real today at this point, perhaps even for this month, but the question is whether it will hold water for two months? If we could do best, we'd only have a financial plan for the next month and so on from month to month. What brings us rebalancing is a reduction in the revenues of the state budget in 2020. which are planned at the level of 122 billion kuna. On the other hand, expenditure remains the same. The change in expenditure is only in their purpose or location, everything is now given in the fight against the crown and the consequences of the epidemic, in the fight to preserve jobs. I think what's planned on the spending side is still too rational because we don't need saving right now, the expenditure should be increased, even at the cost of more debt because we have a lot to finance. Let us not just forget the earthquake in Zagreb where the damage has yet to be estimated. The funds provided for by the rebalance for some 100 million kuna for the emergency implementation of the first phase are certainly not enough. She may be able to pass as an initial asset and it would be great if they were actually spent this year, but it certainly isn't enough. For the past two months and last month, this tall home has voted the most in favour of a whole set of laws that have fiscal effects in the direction of easing the epidemic and its consequences. And it's now embedded in this rebalancing. All these laws have been voted unanimously so I don't think there's any obstacle to this rebalancing going in that direction to be supported in this way. In the debate, I'd like to highlight a few things. The government has come up with lightning and implemented funds to preserve jobs of nearly 7 billion kuna, and this has resulted in more representatives in their debate today. I think it was meant to go quickly, broadly, with liberal criteria. The majority of EU countries went after the subsidisation of workers' salaries at a certain percentage, but the support was exclusively designed to support employers, not as support for job conservation. And here I may see a slip, one mistake that took place at speed, because then it wouldn't have happened if the workers didn't know that their employer had received that support. Then it wouldn't happen if an employer who could pay the difference between the paid support and the contracted salary didn't do it. What are we going to do with that kind of treatment? What about abuses of paid support? This may not be a question for the finance minister at the moment, but it certainly is a matter for the government because the government must find a solution to the problem. Because these measures went to the public and to the Croatian Parliament and were accepted as such to save jobs, but if the worker in certain cases did not get any of it, if he didn't even know about it, then the intention of the Government was, then the Parliament's intention to support it was played out. And that should be determined. At the end of the debate, I would like to point out that a public call is being issued these days for municipal and social infrastructure and for agriculture and for small OPGs, for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in areas which are underdeveloped and which are historically inhabited by members of national minorities. The government's respected programme, met and respected operational programmes for national minorities, also adopted by the government. And so it's supported by this rebalance, the funds in the rebalance are secured, though, slightly less than last year, but insignificantly and minimally, and the calls are gone. The measure is good, affected, accepted, recognised by the users and we expect this year when calls, when the deadlines for application expire, that there will be a lot of applications, a lot of stakeholders, and that these measures will help those who are users of these support, and we can absolutely believe that they are going to counter the consequences of the coronary pandemic. Here, so much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205928	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, a club representing GLAS. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205929	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues Bačić, therefore, we have this exceptional situation that we have colleagues and that Bacic is our only colleague with the vice president. And on your way out. But let's go back to the topic of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the rebalancing of our budget, and maybe this is the opportunity to call some things and the real name, so we have choices around the corner. In the context of these elections, Minister Maric has certainly hurried with this budget rebalance. The budget rebalancing caused something that none of us had in mind at the beginning of the year, and even less when we discussed the budget for this year. Corona, when we discussed the budget for this year, so it's just somewhere, I think on December 12th of last year, the Coronavirus and Wuhan mentioned, that something that was very far away in Europe and something that was in Europe came very quickly to Croatia. And by calling things the right name, Croatia has decided to protect people's health first and foremost. We had one of the strictest measures, and we had a Staff that we trusted and respected all those measures about and distance and everything that was determined. Behind that is said, let's keep our jobs. When it comes to keeping jobs, I could agree with my predecessors, that it was the help of employers, and about keeping jobs we'll see what happens. So what the government and the ruling party have decided, has decided that this summer we will have elections and we have no dilemmas, we have to go into budget rebalancing because we know that about 4 months is of one technical government, 2 months when the Parliament will not work until the elections and then 2 months until everything that needs to be established is established. What we really need to say, the coronaryvirus is something unexpected, for it could not be prepared, we could not prepare ourselves, what time will go on, it will open up the following problems that everyone who is dealing with this at both Europe and the world level, and say in the context of Croatia that it is really and certain shutting down certain jobs, to expect, is also another wave, I have now read somewhere that about the largest wave will be in January 2021. But it's fear, it's fear of the unknown. We're fighting the coronary virus like we're in the 19th century, so without, to reduce our contacts to the least possible measure. What, when it comes to this rebalancing, which is to say, is that in the fall in some new composition of this Parliament and in some new story, we will be welcomed by real rebalancing with real numbers and with real condition and with all the consequences this coronary virus will cause, but as the earthquake in Zagreb has shown the extent of the damage that Mr. Mayor has done to the city of Zagreb for many years, so this coronaryvirus also points to some other things that we have to take care of. So we have to take care of some of the things we've been fooling ourselves about so far. Unemployment has been reduced by people going to emigration, our budget gaps have actually filled our country's apartmentisation and tourism beyond every reasonable measure. Slowly but surely we've turned into a land of cafes and apartments for rent. I don't mind all of it together, but these are not activities that can be the basis of a healthy developed economy. The decline in industrial production... months before the crown, importing food, we have raw agricultural land, we have a shortage of any advanced industry that brings good jobs for high added value, we're a country for educated and there's no place of business, no need. These are the real causes of our problems. This coronary virus has actually shown the real causes of our problems and therefore it is no wonder that when everyone talks about Croatia they say that economic development will be more difficult than in some other countries, it will last longer than in many other countries. We should think about that day later. We should try to think about what kind of country we are and what kind of Croatia we want to be in 2030 or 2050, which is the economy that we are going to develop. We can all agree here whether we sit on the left, right or middle with two things, that we should try to develop agriculture to be as self-sufficient as possible. Self-sufficient in terms of food, we will never be fully, it must be clear to us, but to be as clear as possible and to try as possible to rely on tourism as possible because when the first year does not occur when there is no tourism, all the problems we can open up. So the things we can all agree on are the things we should agree on. So let's remember how quickly we agreed on some things that were connected to the crown laws, we went to make a quick deal because we were afraid because we had pictures of Italy where people in black bags put in trucks, these are pictures that were in front of us in that fear we said okay, let's go with some measures. As good or as bad as they are, we'll see. We're pointing and we're going to point at two things. The first thing we pointed out, which is support was basic to those who, because of the state's decision, couldn't work. That support has turned into someone else's. Don't let it happen to us that the people who took the support for the jobs will pay off the profits, only then will everyone laugh directly at us. The second thing we pointed to, and I'm using this opportunity once again, when it was a start for credits then those who took it should have had the opportunity, that when they started paying off the loan to start where they left off. I've had a chance to hear one of the people in the banking sector who said, well, no, we don't charge people interest, we're going to charge at the moment when they're going to start realising their loan again, I mean what we're talking about. So we didn't do anything. And then we have a situation which is a special situation in the City of Zagreb. At the most severe moment when the crown was the City of Zagreb was struck by an earthquake. The earthquake was 5.5 times the same thing when you take the same 1880 earthquake was 6.5. Within three days of that earthquake in 1880, the headship of the City of Zagreb met, decisions were made, the City of Zagreb was such a small town on the edge of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the result of the earthquake was a strong economic activity that was launched by the City of Zagreb, which the City of Zagreb quickly produced a respectable work of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. The best builders were building the city as we know it today, I must remind you that, let's say August Sheno at that time was a city senator and he got pneumonia helping and injured in the earthquake, but also activating himself in terms of the economy and as a consequence of pneumonia and embolism August Shenoa died as a result of his earthquake-related activity. Since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb 22nd so in 10 days it will be two months, today it is about 50 days since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and now when we compare this budget rebalance in the budget rebalancing we have an item of 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and we have an item of 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency Fund. That's 141 million kuna at a government meeting last week, said it was meant for exactly what. It's designed for recovery, it's designed for dental walls that have collapsed both for condensation water heaters and chimney recovery. All of a sudden, the theme of the earthquake in Zagreb was the need to obtain condensation boilers and resuscitation of chimneys. All this stuff that you're coming to this Parliament so you can't come or all of this you see in the City of Zagreb and all of these activities that are and that you go down one street so you can't go through, the citizens are doing it on their own. Citizens do not have the right information about what the state will do together with the City of Zagreb. Rehabilitation or new reconstruction of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake simply must be a state project. The resolution minister came out to the public about two, three weeks ago and said that the recovery would take years, as he will, said the estimated value is about 42 to 43 billion kuna, and we in this budget have 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, which speaks of the intention of accessing the problem. If the problem was to be treated, the governing body could already be determined at the state level, the law could have been held in public debate, he, I went to check before I dropped here that perhaps there was no public debate in the meantime, so there is no law in the public debate. It's as if Zagreb is forgotten by all. It was as if Zagreb had deliberately forgotten from everyone. Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the sin of inaction is a serious sin. It's a sin that's been going on for 50 days now. So what you're seeing is that the citizens are on their own. But that madness won't end there. This madness will end, the question is how, but at this point we know that there was one Commission of Stats who was reviewing the facilities, so another commission will be set up that will once again in front of the city to check what the facilities look like, what happened here, and the law on reconstruction and the third commission is foreseen. So 3 different commissions will review the damage that was done on the facilities. In doing so, I think first and foremost of the buildings they use, therefore, whether they are family houses or multi-state houses used by our citizens. I assume the state of its building has been examined. I guess, for example, the Ministry of Finance has been reviewed and it's been established around what's the damage, which is the deadlines of the recovery, how to go into rehab, both from the aspect and the statics, from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage, which is some kind of a small cost, which means financially, I guess it's been examined. I think even in that rebalancing process that's gonna happen in the fall, we're gonna have to take this seriously. Indeed, the fact that the city of Zagreb and we who live here and who we are, and we live in those parts of the city where, or in buildings where it felt stronger, it's that now that someone is a little louder or a little stronger, you're shaking because you think it's an earthquake, it's one thing. But this is one of the opportunities to be taken. I asked the minister in the replica about the Green Plan because I am absolutely, and we in GLAS are sure that the Green Plan is one of the future, so Croatia has its Green Plan, that it is one of the ways in the future of Croatia. I know that decisions, especially when 27 countries are making themselves difficult, but we should take this earthquake trouble as our chance. Construction as a branch feels the first recession, but the first feels the exit from recession. We had problems, that we didn't have enough labour, that our labour force had to be activated and in construction was somewhere else. All this Coronavirus talk and all this story about the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, we are absolutely sure that all these disasters that have happened to us, we need to turn it into a new value and turn it into something that we can really use and start with a serious construction swing in the city of Zagreb. So we really see this rebalancing as a pre-election document that is needed to hold elections, and the real rebalancing will come in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205930	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205931	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Excuse me. We can call this budget a short breath budget and a short-sighted budget. Why is that? The budget is short of breath because the ruling parties have repeatedly declared that electoral legitimacy is needed to make key and serious decisions. In other words, this rebalance only maintains public finances for a few months. That fact was acknowledged by the minister himself in the opening speech when he claimed that the main objective of the adoption of this rebalancing was to maintain expenditure on the originally planned amount. It will be provided in less part through redistribution within the ministries, but in order to settle the 27 billion kuna deficit, it is clear that it will need to be in debt and increase the total public debt. We can say that this rebalancing marks a financial message that we can interpret for pre-election purposes because it does not answer key questions concerning the existence of many Croatian citizens, and most of all the poorest. It is not at all comforting when the minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia declares that the payment of pensions will not come into question. It's clear in itself because if that happens, then it's quite certain that the whole economy is at stake, the only thing we could expect is bankruptcy. Especially since pension funds will also help state finances with 16.5 billion kuna. There is also an announced EU aid of 9 billion kuna. By adding these two amounts, we can argue that we are halfway through solving our problems. Looking at things this way, it's all expensive and it doesn't look tragic, but there's always some kind of but, and here's exactly that "but" key. As I have pointed out, this rebalancing is also shortsighted. He doesn't have a serious view of the future. He didn't define the direction we wanted to go. To us, the condition of the old normal, to use the words of the ruling, is to be seen as something that we have to pursue again, and that's just to be fatal. Not only are we shortsighted, but our glasses have slipped deep into our noses. The Croatian economy has deep and structural problems. That's what the minister said. When exports grow, industrial production grows significantly both imports and vice versa. It is therefore important to highlight 3 things that are important to take into account structural problems and start implementing the necessary reforms. First, it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship in a way that stimulates all who have good ideas and development plans, while at the same time controlling incentives. Public procurement as a symbol of corruption should be extremely controlled. That support control is important we see on the last payments of support for the preservation of jobs. According to field information, the controls are missing. The money was paid, and the contracts weren't signed. Support was also used by businesses above the fourth-instance ownership of the Republic of Croatia, although these rules are not allowed. We have destroyed many strategic branches and businesses that employ a large number of workers and create an export product. Secondly, entrepreneurs are exposed to a high tax burden and a large number of parafiscal charges, while on the other hand, public administration reform and local self-government are delayed or not implemented. Public administration must be cheap, efficient and fast, and service to citizens and entrepreneurs. This crisis has shown that system information can only be accelerated if there is a will. Furthermore, instead of building a functional JLS system with clearly defined tasks and responsibilities for municipalities and cities in accordance with their fiscal capacities, the status quo is offered because this corresponds to the currently partial party interests and does not want to move from a dead end. Let's just look at our inefficientness in withdrawing funds from EU funds. We have 428 municipalities and 127 towns + 20 counties + City of Zagreb. We just have two options. Either apply all of them to joint work towards the development of the Republic of Croatia or move towards a serious reconstruction. Third, health, education, pension and other large systems require serious interventions to become functional. Infunctionality causes inefficiencies and preconditions for pointless spending of public money and even suffering in individual's own pockets. At the time of this crisis, the health system has stopped in a large part of the diagnostics, a review of primary health care and a series of non-emergency operating procedures. The rebalancing said that the costs of the health system have increased and that health care workers are not adequately paid. Apparently, the cost went up due to the supply of masks. That's weird. Personally, I think the masks will fall and soon after the election, when HDZ leaves power. Our education system in these difficult times thanks to valuable teachers and teachers, well that I don't end up shutting down, and I'm going to mention the ministry's efforts, has managed to maintain such a distance teaching. And what does the government do? Now he takes away what they were promised after the exhausting strike. Although teachers and students want to return to school, they are prevented by inaccuracies and inexhaustible instructions. So, for example. The instructions specify classrooms with terraces and separate toilets, and this could be written by someone who has never been to Croatian schools. So what happens now? Like in the wild west. The kids are taking over part by piece of the school's territory. It's not a system, it's a verse. And finally mention the pension system. It should be noted that the ruling rejected a reasonable increase in the price for supplementary health insurance and do not want to discuss resolving the issue of family pensions. We'll deal with it right after the election. To conclude, the rulings only have in mind the choices they want to hold as soon as possible on the wave of success of the national headquarters in suppressing the epidemic. As a result, the headquarters lost significantly on its expertise and got a lot of foreigning. And since the elections are closer, of course, that Croatian citizens are not going to be told what is specifically planned to be done, this short-term rebalancing for election purposes has been prepared. We won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205932	Thank you, too. A little intervention, so we're moving on. Next is counterpart Rezimir Varda, Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205933	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have tried to analyze these several hundred pages normally, but I am not an expert as our fellow MPs, former finance ministers, to enter all items, and neither is it actually my duty. However, what I have succeeded through that analysis is to understand it next. As regards the draft amending and supplementing the budget, the State budget for 2020 Looking at the plan, the income plan and the expenditure plan through the financing account, it is clear to me that we need to formally resolve the situation that occurred after we made decisions in this assembly regarding this crown crisis. So, formally these 25, or I don't know how many billions of kunas we have to and legally regulate in relation to the State Budget Act. I am pleased that the end line did not touch the expenditure because this means that we continue to invest and all that was actually planned in the state budget for 2020. But it's clear to me that we have to go into lending, borrowing loans to cover everything we've planned and everything that's come from the crown of the virus. However, what I actually expected in the 2021 and 2022 projections, which I did not find except that part relating to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in 2020. Of some 141 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Environmental Protection Fund, to say the least, and these are chimneys, these boilers, gnomes, etc. Of course I expected, given the situation that the 50th day has passed since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, that there will be some talk about, in projections for 2021 and 2022. Because on the basis of the fact that I didn't find anything, I could conclude the citizens of the City of Zagreb that as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, I'm not going to say, in this case, about the government as a whole, as if there was no earthquake. Why is that, I don't know, but I think it was necessary to give at least a detailed written explanation for the 2021 and 2022 projections. If we could do something in the projections for those years, I'm not sure I'm a respected minister because there's no law. The Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb after an earthquake that should allow not only the city of Zagreb but also rural areas and other districts affected by the earthquake, the efficient and quality restoration of family houses in rural areas and historical urban areas of the Lower City, the Upper City and the City and the Kaptola. Why is there no law? I had little information with the representatives of the city of Zagreb in this committee at the ministry or at the Government on the text of the law, yesterday there was a meeting, the representatives of the city of Zagreb were not even invited. Apparently, according to some information again, such a bill proposal, unknown, goes into e-consultation and reportedly very short, 3 to 5 days later, will come to the Parliament. According to my information, it's a bill that has structural problems that won't even be able to fix the amendments. Why? Well, because I don't think there's any renewal if it's run by politics and if it's run specifically by the Department of Construction. We would have to establish the correct, secure sources of funding for reconstruction that will last 10, 15, maybe 20 years. Which can be restored, sources of funding, we need to make a decision when we make the law. If I don't know, I'm saying it by heart, if that's a certain percentage of the price of fuel, water, I don't know what it is, but these sources need to be safe. Secondly, if I said politics can't lead to reconstruction, then we have an example of Dubrovnik. But we have an example of Gunja. Then it is necessary to establish an institution that will run this reconstruction with safe sources of funding and with an interdisciplinary group of people from architects, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Artists, Ministry of Culture, etc., who will be leading the continuing reconstruction of the Croatian capital, I repeat with safe sources of funding. If that is not the case, if such a law that does not provide for it comes to the Assembly for discussion, this club will think a lot about whether we will also support this rebalancing budget in relation to the projections and whether we will support such a Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205934	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today is the rebalancing that should answer the question of how to help the economy at the entrance so far is the biggest crisis from which we will recover very long and slowly. The scope of the crisis will only eventually be seen when we see what happens to the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. I expect that in June there will be the first big wave of redundancies in the economy and in autumn, probably that number of 400,000 unemployed will be exceeded and we will reach a large number of people will be unemployed so we will be larger than that figure that was there around 2000. We know that the 2008 and 2009 crisis was a major crisis but it's like a little kindergarten compared to what's coming to us. Reported earthquakes in financial markets will cause tsunamis in economies and small ones such as the Croatian economy, will stick to the wall on their tails. Especially countries such as Croatia that are consumed by corruption. There are the biggest victims to be ordinary, honest citizens and citizens who live very modestly, and that is the vast majority. Tourism will not recover to these levels at which it has been and it will definitely undermine what the government is very modestly suggesting and their quasi-sacrifice forecasts have only one purpose and this is a promotion before the elections and are pure regret and deception of citizens and citizens. This government doesn't think at all what the consequences of their policies will be. If, by any chance, this first wave of pandemic corona pandemic coincides with the second wave, which is certain, it will lead to even greater problems in the economy, it will be worse than the Titanic scenario. It was once your coalition partner who was then in opposition, now talking about it, telling colleagues from HDZ. The current rebalance increases the public debt from 73% to 86.7% of GDP, and from this rebalancing it is quite evident that the government is not ready for this first scenario of the pandemic corona, let alone for the second. But it doesn't matter because the consequences of these policies will pay for citizens by falling standards. If this government were still considering improving all Croatian citizens and citizens then, in this budget rebalancing, they would see certain indications of how to react to the crisis that will affect us. It will affect both the left and right sides of this assembly, will affect all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. From this rebalancing, we clearly don't see it. Now is the chance to make changes in this rebalancing process that we should have made in previous years, but obviously it wasn't for that, there was no courage. This government doesn't mean thousands of private sector workers from production who are going to lose their jobs, obviously they're not the future of this country. The government primarily thinks of thousands of HDZ arrests that are in the pockets of Croatian citizens and citizens. They've proven that in the last 5 years. when they were in power, the authorities in which Karamarko and Plenkovic ruled. The government wants to withdraw the real, if this government wanted to make the right moves to save the Croatian economy, let's say it would abolish membership, compulsory membership in the HGK and the HGK turn into a real external trade, export chamber such as all those countries that want to increase exports and presence in international markets. Why doesn't the government dare do that? For the reason that the HGK is networked with HDZ's earrings. This government is on its way with the help of citizens who have lost their jobs by throwing money out of helicopters, and now it's a bit of a head breaker, we said it's not right, that it's not good, that these money was supposed to go to citizens, so those who lost their jobs because their companies or their trades were closed. At the time, it was claimed that everything was under control, as Minister Aladrovic said today, it is not natural for a company that pays dividends to receive support from the state. Well, that's what's in the taste of all the support they need to get those who need it. The one who pays the dividend... Support is not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only that, we said that we should be careful who is paid because this is the state support that falls under EU law and there is no jurisdiction of the state inspectorate, there is no jurisdiction of the tax administration, there is a minister, there is a power of the HZZ that has no capacity at all to control all those who are given support. And according to some data, they were not denied today by Minister Aladrovic, 7 out of 10 support found irregularities. I note that 6.5 billion kunas will be given to entrepreneurs to preserve jobs. A huge sum, if 7 out of 10 were given incorrectly, then we can count on what would happen because Minister Aladrovic announced that those who received illegal support would return it. And how will they repay, who will return, who will establish it? I expect that we will have great problems with the EU and as far as I know, the ARPA is already wild on HZZ because it is obvious that the support has been paid by hand and hat without any control. I asked the minister today, if we gave money to large companies, tens of millions of kunas, was the government ready to enter the ownership structure of these companies? The minister didn't answer, but it's something that makes sense. If we give money to preserve jobs, these big companies will continue to work, why wouldn't the state have part of the ownership structure? The company when it recovers, the part that the state has in, so the company's owns the stock market, is sold and the money returns to the budget. If a great German, who has a much stronger, stronger economy than we do, enters the ownership structure of the Lufthansa, why wouldn't the Croatian state enter the ownership structures of the companies it gives money to? But obviously there's no such thing as will. We don't know why, for what reasons, maybe someday we'll find out why the government doesn't want to enter that process. It would be very good, I hope Minister Maric does, too, to announce to whom the support was paid, and who paid the dividend. This has the opportunity to do so, but it is obvious that Minister Aladrovic and the people in charge of the payment of support have not done their job well if this should not have happened to them. One more thing that could have been resolved by now, and it is moving forward with the changes that are necessary for the matter of privileged pensions. Citizens are very sensitive to privileged pensions, especially the issue of defence pensions, and I am absolutely sure that defenders would have nothing to do with solidarity with citizens in that part and to equalise their rights with other citizens. It is now an opportunity to correct that injustice. However, I am not sure that Minister Medved, who is the parent and sponsor of various associations that celebrate "For Home Ready" and who want the situation to remain this way, will want those large pensions to be equal with pensions that are receiving citizens. Here I call on Minister Medved to be honorable and to correct the injustice against Croatian citizens, as well as the honorable defenders who want to stop Stigmatisation as those who have fought for their privileges, not for the freedom of the country. Now it's an extraordinary opportunity to do it, but I'm sure HDZ won't do it because it's the electoral body and it's the people who choose HDZ. As far as the health system is concerned, the health system has suffered a great sacrifice at the moment as regards the crown epidemic itself and these 100 million kuna rebalances that are currently in the system, certainly not enough to correct all the problems we have in health care. With this, Minister Maric himself said today that last year we ended up with 8 billion kunas of debt in the health system, during the crown of the crisis, these debts were even more and it is clear that there are not enough and there will not be enough funding in the HZZ, because there is a reduction in contributions, a reduction in payments, a payment of contributions, therefore, and there are big, big cuts waiting for us, and in the rebalancing of the budget there is nothing and there is nothing, we see nothing. That 100 million kuna is not something that will help the system. However, what the Government could do, which is, to touch certain privileges, and I see there the part that is related to the Vatican Treaties because I think, as far as the Vatican Treaties are concerned, it's absolutely certain that they can't change without the other side agreeing to it, but on the other hand, the budget pays off the large funds of the church. And I am quite sure that the government has started talking to church dignitaries that this part of the budget is not being paid or reduced at the moment is the situation as it is, it would probably also get a positive answer from the church because the church should also be solidarity with our citizens who have lost their jobs and who will lose their jobs. I note that the first, first big wave is expected in six months, and in the fall we will break the number of 400,000, 400,000 unemployed. How much of that number at this point no one will know. Tourism will probably be something, but not as it used to be, and this is quite certain budget rebalancing first in a row, it should have been before, at the beginning of the crown crisis, however, obviously that HDZ is in a hurry to vote and wished to have, in those two months that are now ahead of us, funds to pay the salaries and therefore he is also the one who is very strange. In all other countries, if you have a decrease in income, you also have a reduction in expenditure. In this you have a decrease in income, and expenses remain the same. We'll be in charge. Yeah, now we can get in charge because the situation is favourable, but it's a question of what we're going to do, what happens in the fall, whether we're going to be in charge of what interest. But at this point, the HDZ is only important to bring budget rebalancing and to go to elections, it will have little problems as I see with my coalition partners from Milan Bandic's party because if the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is not passed, I think the elections will have problems in the City of Zagreb, so I expect that we will have this law here very quickly, because it is something that we owe the citizens of Zagreb. This rebalancing that goes towards purchasing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this is not a crisis-responsive rebalance, nor is this a rebalancing that will lead to us going through this crisis as easily as possible. It's happening again in 2008 and 2009. when HDZ was also in power, when we were hit by a major crisis that would be a kindergarten according to what awaits us now. HDZ didn't manage it then, it doesn't work out now, because obviously it's easier for them to rule when there's money than when the crisis comes. Well, let's just remember, then, the senader said the state was in a banana. I think that at this point we are even more in a banana than we were then and this rebalancing will be voted on, but it is not a solution for what citizens need, and that is to go through a crisis with as few victims as possible, and the biggest victims will be submitted by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who will lose their jobs, so we expect there to be over 400,000 unemployed in the winter. This rebalancing doesn't give an answer to how to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205936	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is a debate between colleagues Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205937	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the rebalancing that everyone said, otherwise you wouldn't be if we weren't in this situation. In fact, we are giving a more outline of what has hit us all and we realize that it is necessary absolutely to take measures not only of those taken but still to take action and put the economy first with the safety of our citizens. These are the two basic things that we all here and, in general, at all levels of politics and local level should be dealt with. Security and the economy and connect those two, which apparently was incompatible, were we stopping the economy for safety reasons. I'm not going to enter into this issue of elections at all, I've said something in my free speech that someone here says in front of the government that because of this situation we're going towards a decision to extend this term to another year of today, I don't think anyone would come out alive and it would be a scandal. On the other hand, if someone in front of the government says that we're going to make a choice if they're up for it, then it's not good, because right now it doesn't fit the opposition, so maybe a little bit later when it's more appropriate or when security conditions come in, that's what I think everybody's the same thing, it has to be the same thing to everyone. And we won't support any election, even if it's just so declarative, if we disband it doesn't mean there has to be an automatic election because if there's no conditions for the election, there won't be. I don't know who dares endanger the citizens. So, that's quite hypothetical, but what I do know is that citizens don't have time to wait and decisions have to be made and that the government has to make it that has full legitimacy. Because again on the other hand, we can't get that everything is normal, that we owe Croatia, that we make decisions, that we negotiate without legitimacy. In recent months, the government can't afford sheep and money. Now that I've summed it up, I actually see that it would be a good thing if it were an election, but when it suits the opposition. Well, maybe not right away, until this is stabilized a little bit, but at nine months, that'll still give it a better chance. That's not how it works. I don't remember until now, but I don't remember in this 30-year-old almost history when we went to election by law enforcement. Maybe someone here can correct me here from the elderly, and I don't think it's ever happened here that we've been going to elections by running out of mandate on its own that he hasn't disintegrated what he's about to say on the 16th of this year. So far, most of them have been disbanding the parliament and thus directed the decision towards the elections were they in 2000, 2003, in spite of the changes in the system in 2000, and we know why they were not the elections, 2003, 2007, 2015, and then again 2016, etc. And that's how it's been. And now was it more or later or later that it was speculating about it. The security of the economy, the point, and we owe it to the citizens. This rebalancing, what I said in the replica, I'm glad on the expenditure side, I said it two months ago that we should not succumb to one part of the consummation of consumption, at least a state that makes up 20% of GDP, but we should actually increase it, systematically, meaningfully. I don't mean spending on employees, but they're reducing the amount if I'm not wrong about about 300 million, no pardon 391 million 391.7 million less for employees, so it's not something spectacular, we're just going to go through percentages by every ministry, but it's exactly that investment maintenance, the renewal and all those investments where there's added value, and we're starting the economy that classic mini deal whatever they call it, I don't think we can stop that's 20% of GDP. The other 20% is consumption. We're saying that we expect a drop of something below 10% in this year's GDP, what's the main reason for that is consumption, so we say that one of the parameters where we can observe the same by consumption is VAT, most importantly, it decreases by 22%, VAT revenues by 12.1 billion kuna. Income from profit tax by 30% 2.8, income from special taxes and excise duties by 16% or 2.7, and we have now corrected and increased. By the way, they've even increased revenues in this lock down from excise duties to cigarettes but not because I think they're more consummated than because they're less carried across borders. And the revenue from contributions has also been reduced by 15% and 3.8 billion kuna, respectively. So it's obviously going down. That's how we react. The basic reaction was to find funds by borrowing, so in projections, we've increased practically to double what planned borrowings are if I'm not wrong about which ones it's supposed to be, I think somewhere from 30 to 60 billion planned borrowing incomes. I'm talking about borrowings from 26.8 to 63 more than double. Why? Now here they say we're in debt, etc., so there's a lot of suggestions that we've proposed to give to everyone, throw money out of what kind of wonders, planes, balloons, helicopters I don't know what's not heard here, give everybody a hand and a hat because it's nice to hear, people will be found somewhere, recognized and someone will say see this care about me, absolutely clear. I think what he's saying from the field is that this non-payment measure and the non-refundable 3,250 per 4,000 kuna has gotten that people have stayed to work and it's got its effects and that's why we've singled out practically 4.5 billion kuna is scheduled, according to this budget a total of 5 billion. I asked what about the EUR, because I am neither a Eurofil as regards currency nor a Kunofil, I am a citizen if we talk like that, so what is in the citizens' interest is actually the primary goal of all of us should be, without some nationalist neglect that I must say so and pretending who prefers Croatia and beats a stronger heart. And it's good to hear that we've met all the conditions, and the Master's criterion is that.../incomprehensible/... looking at the aggregate level can be discussed, so it stays the way it is. What also concerned me and what I'm commenting on is the export of services, thinking the most about tourism decline of 70% is assumed, that that's what we said 20% of GDP is tourism and we're very dependent on this tourism, not through direct income from taxis, etc., residence fees but also the indirect through increased consumption which then comes with us where we use and sell our products of course not to the extent that we want foreign tourists. Now that and the hidden source, the export is not, is not, will not be possible to realize. So that's where a really challenging season awaits us. But according to these projections, recovery is expected if I can read well 9.4% of GDP growth is expected already in the 4th quarter, it is not listed, but by the logic of things it can predict from these papers. So, what was also a speech, I'm just going to relate to employment, I have to say that I'm not quite clear about it, says new employment and the admission of officials and tenants to indefinite and specific times is prohibited. If they are provided with funds for staff expenditure from general income and income, therefore not if they are from projects or from HZZO funds, it is now a wider story and says the exception that a minister can be granted. We have already been banned from employment since 2010, according to the project model, yes, 2 for 1, yes, otherwise not. But somehow I don't feel like we have fewer employees compared to 2010, but I'm going to ask the Ministry of Administration, hopefully give me an answer on the movement of the number of employees in the state administration. And it says about the salaries for employees, something that is important again for the next government to enter the trade unions negotiations with the unions, so it says a reduction of expenditure for employees at the government 5.2%, the Ministry of Finance 5.8%, the Ministry of Defence 1.7, the Ministry of the Interior 1.3, that's not clear to me, Ministry of Croatian Defence 0.6, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts 5.2, Ministry of State Property 6.9, Ministry of Culture 5.4, Ministry of Agriculture 3.5, Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds 3.4, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 5.3, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning 8.1, Ministry of Environment and Energy 3,9, Ministry of Education 0.3 reduction, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Tourism 20.5, Ministry of Tourism 20.3, administration of 0.3, Demography, Justice 1.9 and the Ministry of Health in its divisions provides an increase of 2.7%, which is logical in all terms. So obviously, here some planning of the increase we agreed on, signed and originally not secured in the budget, are not now and that it will be something that awaits us because we had negotiations and those strikes of the union after the budget and we are not in the meantime if memory does not cheat or have rebalancing. So these increases are obviously gone and I say more or less everyone except for some exceptions that are not clear to me, too, recorded the decline in staff expenditure, whether it's due to the lack of overtime or not, but mostly it's all percentages. As for the Law on Reconstruction, I would like him to be here in this rebalancing although his funding is provided for by the Solidarity Fund and other European funds, therefore not only from my own revenue or budget, I am glad that it is not only waiting for laws but also for other fronts to immediately bring fire-fighting measures and here above all I am thinking about these almost 100 million kunas secured for the replacement and repair of chimneys, or 41 million from the position of the fund for the purchase of water heaters or condensation boilers, because it is practically necessary to ensure people that if we do not already have colder time but that they have at least sanitary water and some minimum. It's also going to propose parallel financing for home design with those yellow and red tags, that it's also coming out, that it's already going to do something, but the general law on reconstruction, the roof law that needs to be decided by dozens and dozens, over 40 billion damages, is not in this rebalancing and cannot be done until there's no law, it's absolutely clear, when we adopt it, then we can hope to secure the funds, so I expect to put that procedure, as far as I know the law, the bill is almost last week, he's committed to the prime minister and we wait for him to enter, go through the government procedure and be put into public debate and be put on the government as soon as possible, because we recognize that it shouldn't be passed overnight, but that it should be brought to, absolutely, and whether it's left to any other government or not, I think that my position is not to bring it to be better, but to the better, not to the best, but to the night. So, as far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, we have mentioned that, in general, although I am glad that this projection of the reduction of 9.4 GDP is more negative than what the European Commission has given us with more than 7%, but I think it is important that we have left the expenditure that we are focusing precisely on that consumption and generation and consumption, and therefore economic activity, and that this is a good direction that we have not been reducing despite the decline in revenue over 26 billion, we have remained at the same level of expenditure, we have only redistributed and we have told what is our priority, and there is also a minister who has the support of our own, that this is a way to keep going, to see that this spilling to these extra budget users, so that they will go to this accelerated investment cycle, everything that I can immediately start and what was planned this year and the next year to start this step, and that way, and that we are going to get back to the crisis that way we are now, where we are going to a lot of financial crisis. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205938	Thank you, too. This concludes the debates on behalf of clubs, we continue with an individual debate, only technical notice to all MPs and MPs, individual debate takes 5 minutes. Comrade Babic, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last November, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget for 2020 in accordance with then defined macroeconomic indicators on GDP growth in Croatia with projected revenue and expenditure almost on a balanced budget. Meanwhile, in the world, both Europe and Croatia have significantly changed the circumstances conditioned by the global pandemic of the virus and the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, and this budget has been a practical result, i.e. a better said result of these events that have significantly conditioned a reduction in economic activity, which resulted in a resulting clear reduction in the revenues of the state budget and expenditures which could not have been foreseen at the time when we were making the budget here in HS. This significant decrease in revenue of around 25 billion kuna is clearly defined in this rebalancing. But what needs to be singled out is the fact that unforeseeable expenditures that are paid monthly primarily for, as support for job conservation, employers' liquidity and for maintaining business activities in the Republic of Croatia and that this is a significant amount as it says in the explanation of around 7 billion kuna, but in spite of that fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance have, within their own redistributions, maintained that level of expenditure of the state budget, so that the deficit of the state budget would amount to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. I am that this fact of reducing business activities defines this macroeconomic framework in the Republic of Croatia, which this year, as we heard from the government and the ministry, will be 9.4% of GDP. But what it says about the exact estimates this government has shown over the past 3.5 years. that these estimates, always at the end of the year, and at the end of the year, the basis of the data of the State Statistics Institute, proved to be correct, even moreover, the government entered this rebalancing with real mathematical economic indicators, which is more so when we see that the European Commission is planning a lower GDP decline of around 0.3% of GDP and, on the other hand, GDP growth in the coming year, larger than the one the government, the government predicted for the next year, which is 6.5%. So far, during the club debate, I have heard numerous objections from the opposition and how they would act in this situation. I have to say that the government, and while not focusing too much on the work of the CZ Staff, is at this point not in the focus of my exposure above all, I am here focusing on the government's response to the many measures, the economic measures that we have taken in two packages, both in that March and in that April package, and in this May package where, where we are planning and already defined around EUR 100 million of reduction, and tax or parafiscal burdens on the one hand, and on the other hand, in negotiations with trade unions, retain this level of budget that is sustainable and which is good and acceptable. And the government of these measures, these two, with this, two packages of measures, I intend, and I am convinced that they will succeed, manage to preserve the economy when coming out of this epidemic that is more painless, which is easier to continue with, the businessmen continue with their business activities. So I have to say that I'm surprised that in a certain way, imputing the government that in forwarding the support for the preservation of jobs, it should have entered into the ownership of certain employers of economic operators because as a result, it might have been that total number, about 600,000 or something less, I wouldn't be counting now, I wouldn't be guessing, but I believe that a number of employers would find out that they're going to be owned for that part. If they were then, I didn't even notice that we had five minutes, so that they would be taken into possession, that way they would have left their employees to HZZ. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205940	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205941	Dear Representative Bačić, I have a question for you, and this question is asked by many people involved in the transportation of passengers, especially when it comes to buses driving tourists. The fact is, the government banned tourists from entering the country, banned them from working on the other side, and on the third hand, the Leasing Houses continued to send credit rates to collect or rate leases, whatever they call it. I wonder why the government doesn't do anything about it. So, people have lost any income, and wars come at the rate of interest. By my judgment, the way you treat carriers is unserious because these people are going to find themselves in large financial delinquency, so I'm interested in your opinion and to tell me maybe the government has really decided to do something to help them, I'm interested in your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205942	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, the government did not prohibit tourists from entering, but closed their borders in this pandemic of the state's coronary. Therefore, we and if we had allowed anyone to arrive in the Republic of Croatia this arrival is not possible because the states that would be... and to the tourist markets because of their problems because they also close borders and traffic, the crossing across borders has been stopped. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for lying and credit at all, you're wrong. Both the government and the CNB and, with, with, with financial institutions aligned, agreed a moratorium that could be up to 12 months and which, the length of the moratorium, is agreed by both the bank and the client. And sometimes it's also in the interest of the client not to be 12 months, but to be shorter and depending on the position of the client, the moratorium is also agreed on shorter interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205944	Thank you. Dear representative Mrsic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205945	Dear colleague Bacic, you are trying to explain inexplicably. If one Germany that has an economy much stronger than we, which has also given its workers millions of euros, owns the structure of Lufthansa and other companies to which it has also delivered millions of euros, if the Croatian state has given 20 or 30 million kunas to certain companies, does not want to enter the ownership structure, in order to one day return those money back to the budget again and use it for something else, then something does not make sense to me. Otherwise, your Minister Aladrovic wonders today and says it is not natural for someone who pays dividends and bonuses to receive support and received support from each other. Therefore, you cannot explain why the state would not enter the ownership structure of the company in which 30, 40 or 50 million kuna will land today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205946	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you should have made little arrangements within the opposition with your own performances, as to whom it comes to mind, so it comes out for a pay phone and proposes measures. Let every country take care of its economy, a few years ago there was a specimen that Germany very richly and generously responded to all employers, so Grant gave them billions and billions of euros. We acted differently at the time, and now we've estimated that this is the most favourable way to access employers. Perhaps some employers would if they knew that they were going to be owned, simply thanked and said that we are not to blame for the economic situation, deliver you 50, 100, 200, 300 000 of our employees while the crisis is going on for you at the Employment Service, so you solve it financially with them, and we will continue to maintain those activities, business activities that we can in accordance with the principle of supply and demand. Therefore, every country chooses its own path, I think this time, which Croatia has chosen best for both the state and employers, and what is important for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205948	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205949	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you should not be overly burdened with your colleagues in the opposition because they have agreed with everything for a month, but now for a month they agree with nothing, it just bothers them because I can't believe that this is happening in Croatia in the best possible way. Let's say that Mrsic forgot while he was a minister that was in one time, I think one 420,000 unemployed, and I remember asking him to shut down that counter at the office because it was embarrassing, today the problem is 150,000 with everything we've been through in the past 2 months, so I support what you've said and the fact is that we did especially in public finances, the maximum possible to keep means of employment but that the system of public finances can normally function, and we who have been in local self-government for years, and we see how that works. All I can say about this minister is words of praise for everything he's done to us in the past three years and in this crisis right now. We can say that what we need comes neatly from the state regardless of all problems. Whoever wants to confirm it will, whoever won't, doesn't have to, but it's in the budget, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205950	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join my congratulations to our Deputy Prime Minister of Finance for managing the financial system of the state above all and in this crisis. I failed Mr. Mrsic, I agree with the number of employees at a time when he was Minister of Government and that dial, today there are 160 or 152, 3,000 unemployed, if I'm not mistaken. If it was possible to go to this model that he said before, we would have crossed that 420,000 very quickly and then to get rid of it later, I don't know. And with the right of counterpart Mrsic, he says that Minister Aladrovic expressed his position when it comes to employers who would pay dividends when the state delivered millions and millions of kunas to keep them busy, preserve jobs. Every item needs to be carefully considered, the employer needs to know that if he pays the dividend, that either that part of it must be returned or blocked, there are many ways to act and react but there will be time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205952	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this budget rebalance is primarily for those who have been playing the unfaithful Tom all along and hitting on each other here, should be put there. So, what does the government have to show for this rebalance? First, if she is aware that due to the coronary virus, due to the disturbances of certain economic activities, the income side will be greatly devastated and at the 3 most important revenues of the state budget, these are so-called. Consumer taxes, VAT and excise duties, contribution to pension, if you look at extra budget users, then you will see a contribution to health insurance and profit tax. So, this is about the revenue side, but what is very important and what has been said very little today is that, despite the fact that there have been some new costs, I think, above all, and this is the highest cost for preserving jobs, the government has decided to ask all budgetary users, insists that every minister, every user, the cost that simply could not have happened because of the reduced activities because of something else, that these budget users reduce their budgets and thus keep the expenditure side at the level as originally planned. And I think it's a great quality. The following thing to be said here, that the government in the talks, by means of agreements, has imported the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensured uninterrupted funding that it is missing in the state budget, and the shortages that outside budget users have and what is very important, this financial sector is preparing for what will come to say, the day after. And today it is later when certain economic activities are to be launched, if these certain economic operators do not have financial resources, they will very hard to do so. And what I said today in my replica, which is what we all have to pay attention to, especially the Government, which is that not only out-of- budget users, but all the companies in which the state is either a minority or a majority owner, have to think about carrying out obligations because simply what the state has any control must not be the indifference generator because that indifference is the most dangerous thing that can happen to us after what we're talking about. And one more thing, reform. So, all of our mouths are full of reform, but no one today has said that the state administration has taken one huge step practically 7 miles in moments when it was practically impossible to function, when citizens via the Internet, through some other electronic means were able to perform their own needs, although it was a long time ago idea when the OIB was being introduced to link the state administration in such a way and that citizens didn't have to go door to door but simply to file a request and then to have the state administration do their part of the job on official duty. Eh, colleagues and colleagues, I'll do two things with that. So when you look at the rebalance of the state budget, when you look at the expenditure side that is the most significant items of pay, pension, health care. Is there anything that can be changed without reform? He can't. And we just have to be aware of that, the ministers who are currently negotiating with the unions are aware of the situation that unions won't give in, no one's asking that with reform someone, some kind of right be reduced. We simply want to pay for those who work, and those who do not work or need to be in the state administration and thus get to a better, more efficient state administration that will benefit everyone, both citizens and economics and everyone. And what I always talk about when I talk about budget rebalancing is out-of- budget users. They are the ones who tomorrow with their financial potential and with their investment and investment from the EU fund, funds can be the generator of that first step in Croatia's economic recovery. Because colleagues and colleagues fall by 9%, 9.5, 10% is not something that won't leave any kind of scar on the RS economy, because we have to be simply aware of that and that's something that doesn't suffer political bickering. It's something that requires the political consent of all of us, to pass the laws to restore that economy, or else we'll tap like the SDP government tampered with 3 years after this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205954	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović's, all right. Then let's go to the replicas first. He's the first respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205955	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to read to you the letter or the announcement of Dragutin Hanžek. It's about a man who's been punished with 8,000 kuna fines because he went in his own tractor to unload the manure on his own field. He says, dear friends, I can't help but tell you about yesterday's announcement of headquarters for the upcoming elections. Mr. Capak's statement that the elections could be made at the time of self-insulation, it completely freaked me out, and then he explains that he was punished for taking the manure into the field. So here I'm asking you, is it normal for you, Mr. Schucker, that at the same time that people in self-insulation can go out to elections without a problem, and on the other hand, that these same people can't unload the fertilizer on their own field and they're being punished for it with 8,000 kuna? Is it economically justified for you, is it in the interest of people, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205956	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You must first know that these two decisions are not at the same time. At the moment when the movement was limited, practically between the settlements because of simply preventing the spread and it is today a confirmation that it definitely gave the results, and what you're talking about now is someone saying something like this along the way but at this point the e-passes have already been abolished, you can travel all over Croatia today that no one is stopping you. Therefore, you speak in two terms at different times. You can't put them at the same time. Because you're talking about someone being able to go to the election you're talking about the future that's gonna happen in a month and a half, two, three, it doesn't matter when, and when you talk about someone who couldn't go to their field, you're talking about the time that practically ended 10 or 15 days ago, and that provision was passed almost two months ago. And it's just a fact, and it's not good to mix and confuse things like that. If there was some awkwardness about those e-passes, it's probably But unfortunately, we're all as divided as we are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205958	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205959	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker when you spoke about the disturbance of certain economic activities in the Republic of Croatia this morning I received some information from our environment, here's SR Germany wondering this morning who will pay the account of the crown virus. They account for over 101 billion in the federal budget, and the drop in GDP is 6.3%, so it's not that small. What they fear is the loss of jobs, or strengthening social giving. So, the coronary virus and what found us, and also about this budget, the rebalancing of the RS budget is nothing new and unusual, no matter how many colleagues today talked about what could be done and how it could be done, but the fact is that not only we but the countries in the environment are actually going through the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205960	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205961	My colleague Babic, first this government said that health and its citizens are first in line. After some indicators were established, after knowledge of the experts, measures on the economy began to relax a little. The government also made it clear that certain activities that, due to the government's provisions, cannot function will help in such a way as to pay wages, etc. So the government has made it clear at the right time what needs to be done. However, now comes the day after which we are expected and the need for social contributions and the need to finance certain activities, and therefore a complete financial sector should at the moment be urged to use the funds available to the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia to be primarily at the service of the economy, to encourage it, as well as the state to finance its commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205962	Thank you very much. He raised his hand, it seems to me for a break, the esteemed representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205963	That's right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I demand a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, the Living Wall, and it concerns our debate on budget rebalancing. In fact, it is unacceptable that the expenditures of the state budget are reduced by not a single lip, and why? Because, respected citizens, over the past month, for a month and a half, minimals have been paid to certain companies, in particular bookmakers, and especially to debt enforcement agencies. This is where I'm going to provide one of the information from one of those agencies that was in 2013. Founded with 500,000,00 kn capital, capital capital, and this debt-to-deposit agency today has over 400 million kunas of underlying capital. So over the past years they have made enormous profits, and today the Croatian state, or this government, is helping them. Dear citizens, are you in favour of paying taxpayers' money to casinos, bookies and debt agencies? I'm sure you didn't. The second thing, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions in the last few days that if we had introduced the EURo, we were in a much better situation because we would have access to unlimited liquidity. In the past month, two German academics have signed a complaint to the German Constitutional Court because the European Central Bank bought state bonds from EUR 2600 billion from 2015 to 2018. The Germans have gone mad and are asking the question, claiming that Germany has no right, means to bear and finance to that end. They gave the European Court of Justice the ultimatum to respond within 3 months. This is the beginning of a great, let's just say, not the end of a monetary union, but the big problems, and they assure us it's security and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205964	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give it to you, and we have more requests for a break. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205965	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I am looking for a break because of the Croatian public to tell the true indicators. So it's not true that the budget hasn't been cut because this corona crisis is on the cost side of the state budget demanding new costs that are nearly 8-9 billion kuna. And if the budget hadn't been reduced then there would have been an increase in the expenditure side by 8 or 9 billion kuna, but since all budget users have cut their original budget for all those expenditures that will not happen because of the situation we are in, the government has therefore shown great effort and thus sent a message that it wants to keep the expenditure of the state budget at which they were voted. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, in finance is the worst ex-wise. We've had twice in the HS debate over government measures about incentives for, to retain seats. No one, but literally none of the MPs have risen, and that's what he said, and that one has no right to do it. But at the same time, you all forget that HANFA has made a decision on some of the financial sectors that it controls that can't pay off dividends. The CNB has made a decision that banks cannot pay the dividend. If someone has abused this government provision to help preserve jobs, the tax administration and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will establish it, punish it, pay back the money and what I think all fellow parliamentary representatives agree, the name of the company should be publicly published and placed on the pillar of shame. But in this way, you can't bid this one, you can't bid that one, you should be brave when measures have been taken, and that word has no right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that. So it's important at the right moment to react, help, because of the little weenie we can't throw away the whole grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205966	Thank you. We'll give you a break for up to 16 and 25. It's 4:00 P.M. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we've run out of time to take a break, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205968	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the respected chief state treasurer, Jakir Bajo, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when the budget agreed for this year, it was difficult to assume that we would also be hit by a pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and even less, on top of that, the earthquake. In June 2017, this government managed to get out of the excessive budget deficit procedure and in the 3rd year's orders, we recorded a budget surplus and a strong reduction in the share of public debt in GDP by more than 11% points compared to the end of 2015. We were proud to read last summer that Croatia was in debt for the first time at a negative interest rate. In 2019, the tourist year, the record year, we recorded with an increase of as much as 17% more income than what this government found and the increase in income, the arrival of 20% and the night of 16%, and it was really hard to imagine that the pandemic of the coronary virus would not stop, but suddenly that all of this fell into the water as if nothing had worked so and that we did not fast. As I said, on top of that, there was a city of Zagreb and an earthquake, few who said today and mentioned that as much as 40% of the income of the Republic of Zagreb or 58% of total profits of the entrepreneurs were achieved. To rebalance the budget in which revenues are significantly reduced, almost gone over the past months on some items, while retaining the same expenditure, is indeed a great skill and vice-president of the ministry and the entire government. In the past, the government has sought and succeeded, primarily to protect our lives, our health, and our jobs. In fact, the first package of measures, we had 63 measures and the second package provided for numerous and subsidies, delays in paying a certain tax, and only one measure, I would say, the most attractive one, with which to pay, is the salary of 4 thousand kuna, with the corresponding fees, was the most popular one, and only this measure last month will save about 600 thousand jobs, i.e. assistance from nearly 96,000 entrepreneurs. When I listen to some colleagues today when they say, we won't support this budget rebalance, I wonder if they represent any entrepreneurs at all, whether they represent any workers, employees who would have found themselves at the Employment Office if there hadn't been this measure by the Government, and precisely those measures are contained in this budget rebalancing. Only to support job conservation is 6.7 billion kuna, from the EU funds 1.6 billion kuna. Citizens' and households' fees increased by 327,9 million, subsidies by 5 billion kuna, we have also heard a lot of criticism about EU funds. The criticism is, in fact, how the amount is reduced. We need to know that there is a shift in public procurement plans, prolonging and changes in planned labour dynamics, however, it should be said when we talk about EU funds that incorrect information that we have paid more than we have received. In fact, we're on the plus with March 31st of 25 billion kuna. All those funds that we are obliged to withdraw by 2019 according to all the operational programmes we have also withdrawn, so the goal is met, and many more funds have been received, or redistributed, around 400m euros from EU funds, which for the purchase of medical equipment, which is for loans and financial instruments, and also for job retention measures. Once again, given that the actual exposure of 5 minutes is extremely short, I call on all colleagues and colleagues, if they want to protect one worker who has applied for this measure, i.e. entrepreneurs, to support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205969	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205970	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. This calls for the number of unemployed, etc., and it is not said that it has not responded so quickly and prevented this very number of unemployed from happening two months ago. In two months, much has changed, conditions have been created for both economic recovery and work, and something better can always happen afterwards. So, in general, why do they cause what is not to be caused, when these measures have already achieved a great deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205971	Thank you very much. Answer, the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205972	Thank you, colleague Peric. Well, the truth is, it seems to me that all those who are against this rebalancing are against the funds that these many of our workers have received. Looks like you'd rather have 600,000 people at the Employment Service, so we'd have more reason to call this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205973	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205974	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Get INAs and HT and HEP, etc. It is also accomplished in your Vodice and in my Pula, just book in the city of Zagreb and it would be good for you to mention it as former mayor because this is just another example of how centralized Croatia is. But what I wanted to ask you was something else, and I asked that this morning and the Honorable Vice President of the government, but he didn't know or didn't want to answer, and the question concerns the pausals paid by our tenants. I'm asking you why you and I come from a region that is dominantly touristic and I'm sure you understand that problem. So I'm asking you if you consider this flat tax to be for the second quarter that's up to 30. 6, should I charge or write off after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205975	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205976	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, I would like to say populistly, I am so that all these taxes are deleted and that none of our citizens pay any taxes, but we need to know who earns a certain income or a certain amount of membership or tax, and there are some people with personal incomes, some families are fed. Therefore, there should be a good measure of forgiveness and delay. And as for the city of Zagreb, I agree with you, I would also agree that the VAT that is coming to the Plodines in my Vodice will be the income of the town of Vodice, but we know very much how it works because 35% of the population lives in the city of Zagreb, it should be said that 48% of the exports leave the city of Zagreb, therefore, are all facts that should be considered when it is passed, perhaps in due course, some other bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205977	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205978	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you referred naturally to the priorities that were and the priority of this government was of course to protect the health of citizens, then to preserve the jobs that are both the government and the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance but also the entire ministry made in a quick reaction but of course you also referred to the withdrawal of EU funds and funds, and in your debate you said that in plus 25 billion kuna and of course on March 31st this year. Of course, this is one normal sequence and we all couldn't plan this crisis in November last year, and I thank you once again, of course, to the rapid reaction of the government, but also to the Minister of Finance and the complete ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205979	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205980	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maksimchuk, it is true when speaking help from European funds, is said to only one figure which, in my view, only prolonged or moved plans and public procurement, and there has been a change in the planning of the dynamics of the works done, however, is such as a refund from EU aid increased by 120 million kuna, other EU programmes by 53 million, EU aid to 29 million and 625 000, which means that there have been some changes in both terms and internal excesses in a different way in order to give priority to helping the economy, jobs and health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205981	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205982	Thank you very much, Vice President, just a brief intervention, I don't normally get to interrupt the debate in this morning's replica and now at the replica of my colleague Martinchev Juričev as regards private tenants and this is about the second quarter, the second quarter. In the rules of the General Tax Law, I thought that this was how I responded because we had already signed the criteria, a greater exemption as foreseen. So it says very clearly, obligations for the second quarter of this year will not be charged, so private renters have been released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205983	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205984	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you for having responded very clearly now, but I will read to you what I did this morning before I asked you, I found on the Tax Administration pages, which is the tenants who have submitted a request for a postponement of payment for the commitment made on 31.3. Please intervene and tell your colleagues from the IRS that they are correcting this because it creates a confusion among everyone visiting the IRS official website, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205985	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205986	Thank you very much. All right, let's make it clear to each other and to those who are watching us, or to those to whom we are going to deliver these messages. 31.3. refers to the commitment for the first quarter, this is the first quarter, so the flat-rate borrowers pay quarter or quarter, at the end of the quarter for that previous quarter, so 31.3. for the first quarter, 30.6. for the second quarter and what is in the general tax law is intended to be released precisely for that second quarter that should be paid 30.6., this is released, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205987	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205988	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, yes, a large number of small tenants have this problem but there is an even bigger problem with a large part of Slavonians who were the seasonal labour force on our sea and were left without a job and a question on their behalf, which they can expect since the announcements of the tourist season are real, are they likely to run out of jobs and 5 and 6 and 7 months? So, because of them, models need to be found to help these people who were seasons, this is one thing and the other, it is certain to continue investing in the tourist development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, there have also been announced major projects of tourism promotion of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, whether in the rebalance and that part is being reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205989	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205990	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, well, I think that you are, as of course, a talkative advocate, my God, from there and you come as I do, for the development and development of Slavonia and Baranja and, in general, our geographical view of the East, I think we can agree and then I'll use the answer to your replica, a word exactly to remind everyone. Until some time ago, not so long ago a survey among entrepreneurs who are the first factor of the restriction of further economic activity, which limits you most in further steps, etc., a labour force, a lack of labour. Among other things, of course, now that we are talking about the problem of keeping jobs and preserving jobs, we need to sort of remind everyone of that not so long ago. So even seasonal workers from Slavonia who went down to Dalmatia to work during the season must surely work in these circumstances as such, of course, should not be neglected, but at the same time we repeat, so we put the measures we put into operation in the circumstances that they are and we will see how and how to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205991	We have another replica of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205992	Dear Minister, please answer the question precisely, in the last month in order to save the economy and help the economy, to what extent did you charge us at a fixed interest rate and at which, with a variable interest rate on loans and bonds? And another important question, did you negotiate these loans and bonds with the currency clause? Because if you accidentally made a deal, you never gave us that information, not you, not the Prime Minister. If you've put us in debt at a variable interest rate of 10 years. e.g., but for 2-3.g. The interest rate comes back to 4.5.6%, you've done a lot of damage, and you could've put us in charge of financing Kunski through the CNB at 0%. If you've negotiated a currency clause, you've done the same great harm because it increases the eurorization of the entire system, you're putting us at currency risk. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205993	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205994	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In particular, a concrete answer is available to you publicly anyway, but I will try to sum up those 6 billion and 100 million kunas that we have agreed with the 6 largest Croatian banks, bilateral arrangements, each of them of course details are known, I think that more than half of these arrangements are at a fixed interest rate, some of them are bound to a six-month vault record, so they have some variable component, but I repeat, more than half of them are fixed. The bond and vault records know that they are always practical at a fixed interest rate. So, the vault log that we've refinanced at an interest rate of 0.06 per year, that's the one that's reaching and will be reaching for now a little less than a year. And this bond that's recent, the last instrument that we've issued as well as each one is at a fixed interest rate of 0.75%, it was also a contribution, so we've issued it with a pair, per pair at 7.g. That's it. What? [[The bogeyman from the bench is heard.]] This last one is a billion EUR 445, so we're talking about, that's exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205995	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205996	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I would like to say a few words about the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. with projections for 2021 and '22. Because the basic question was whether or not to change the budget now or not to change it, the responsible Government made it clear that a budget rebalancing may also be taking place as part of the measures for the month. As the March March measures went, the March measures, so this is one of those parts of the March 2020 measure, and as a result of this pandemic that surprised us all. Going back only 3 months or 70 days, it's clear that we've all lived at our own pace, and no one has thought that we're going to talk here about budget rebalancing, we've all seen each other in different relationships, and there hasn't been any debate about whether the state is going in the right direction or wrong, we've mostly been dealing with some other topics that weren't at all about finance. But there was a virus that apparently locked not only us but the whole world. The strongest states, those that can on the moon, simply stand today locked up and fight for their population, i.e. for the health of its citizens. We do it now after this situation that we started to verify, for reasons unknown to me, because everything is comparable, and the data is all out there, I just don't understand why we're doing it? Why are the hardworking people on the front line being valued in a way that we now question them in general and their expertise and anything else in terms of some kind of politics? For what? So we have EU countries with which we can compare, our sizes, 4 million inhabitants, a little more population, so let's compare, it's not a problem at all. Let's look at Ireland, do we want that scenario? 20 and how many, 23 135 infected, 1500 dead. Or everyone's talking about some Swedish guy. Here's a colleague here who advocated a Swedish model. 27 000 infected, 3300 dead. Today we're creating a problem here, unfortunately, for the deceased in the nursing homes, and it didn't have to happen, it happened. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a problem or a virus that we don't have a solution for, but we're very easily earning efforts and all the citizens who were willing to lock themselves up or stop their lives to get out of this situation. I'm coming from the island, we've been locked up for 50 days, four ferry lines a day, just delivery, just delivery. Until recently, three regions within the county, here from Monday last we travel freely without passes and it's like all normal, nothing was normal. And I wonder by the reactions of everyone, for what? Why are we underestimating this effort that everyone has made to have the situation that we have today? We have 300 I think and 8 active people who are infected, 308, there are no countries in the EU that have so many. And that's too much for us. And it needs to be reduced, it'll shrink safely if we're responsible. And this, the government's reaction through the March measures, for April, so we first had the universal enthusiasm. General acceptance and now that we realize these measures, we are all against them because the opposition can and we know and accept it as a reaction because the goals are now quite another. They may even be imposed in some way on the side of the opposition. We wanted elections first, now we don't want them anymore. Okay, everybody's fighting for their own politics. . /. And I'm looking with And I'm looking from the local level, what are our calculations now? On communal compensation and pay contributions. We stopped everything else, especially those who live on tourism. No public area, no concession approvals, no concession revenues, no revenue practically from construction, here and there some contributions. There's no payment in the budget. Of course we've been reacting with rebalances, and we're waiting for what the government is going to say that we know what we're going to do, we've tried to do what we can. If a construction worker can't make it to the island, what can we do? We stopped all the projects. And these are situations that are real, they need to be looked at that way, not all politics. And let's be realistic, according to this effort, to reduce expenditures, but those 8 billion more that have been incurred as expenditure in the fight against something. And we can't underestimate it and say nothing has been reduced, not even by lime. Yeah, it's getting smaller, it's just a question of how anybody wants to read it. I know that every 150 of us here would put together a budget the way it suits him and no one would be satisfied. But I think this budget shows that we have a measure of optimism. What happens in the 10th month? I'd like to say we're gonna have a great season from 15.7 to 15.8. Maybe it's possible, and maybe it's not, it's not all up to us. I think we're showing responsibility and what people want from us. And it's to feel at least safe, as safe as it can be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205997	We have several replicas again, Mrsic's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205998	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, so no one doubts that the results are healthy, but here we are talking about throwing money without any criteria, and among the 10 biggest companies that received support from the state are hotel companies that have a permanent season, some baker's companies that were selling at the time, until we have companies that had a delivery, so we've seen rows in front of these companies. Also, those owned by the pump, therefore, were seen to have been thrown in such a way that there was no control and you had no answer. Yes, we started with 420 thousand unemployed, we ended up with 285 thousand 31.12.2015, 135 thousand less, you started with 285,000, before the crown you had 143 thousand, so net 142 thousand, so the same thing we did in four years, so when you criticized, look at a little bit of numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u205999	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206000	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I come from an island where we have a hotel house that owns Valamar, and has a daughter who owns it, named Imperial and your way, and these companies should not receive any compensation even though they are locked up, so today there is no activity, no hotel is open, no camp is open. Last year at this time of the 12.5th, everything was open, working in it 200 people. If you think and represent the the thesis that these people should have lost any help or that they should have received nothing from the state, you continue to do so, as well as in the campaign or any future time. I think the state should have done it and done it the best possible way. How the question of evaluating everything that happened in the fast run will be addressed, let's say the procedure to reach the time because a month is not too much time to solve everything, by the more we were halfway through the month when all these different measures and behaviors started, I know that it was responding to help all of us. Is it fair to everyone, I think it was probably the ones who They made something that they shouldn't have, but there's a state to determine that in later times. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206001	The next replica is the respected representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206002	Dear colleague Boris, you said you didn't understand why we're acting like this. At first, we all boasted, and now he's attacking himself and he's looking for guilt. We'll remember, we've heard it countless times, they've waved at the savior of the olive branches, they've worshipped him, they've yelled at him in a few days. But here is the fact, the fact that no one can deny, the fact that all those who have requested, received, the fact is that the businessmen in that part of which the work is banned, not only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but from all the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have received numerous benefits and have all been one goal and I think that this is a legitimate goal and that it deserves all praise. Save the job, save the economy, because that's the only model we can think about getting out of this situation. There is every praise to the government for its determination, as well as to the Staff, and all that is going on in the future. It will show how correct these measures were. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206003	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206004	Thank you very much. I, my colleagues or the staff, understand when they said they were the same people as at the beginning, and today after 77 days. Some understood that at the beginning, but after 77 days, unfortunately they didn't and tried to insult them, which I disagree with, but it's obviously their right, which was before, we've been through a different time and we remember them all. We also remember the migrant crisis and the crisis headquarters established by the SDP government to address the activities of the entry of immigrants into the Republic of Croatia. Who was in charge of this Command? Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Who were the members? All in a row, deputy ministers from the new ministries. But we hear today that it wasn't a political body at the time that this crisis headquarters was just today a political body, it was probably all HDZ's, and unfortunately there are no SDPs here anymore. I mean, it's so below the level of anything, they've dealt with one problem, this Staff is dealing with another problem and there's a law that solved them in terms of who should be a member and who can join it. But I'm saying, everyone has a chance to show up next time what he's been doing. and how he acted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206005	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206006	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I agree with you, fellow Boric, that we must watch what we say in HS and not empower those people who are in the Staff today. The fact is that before this crisis we had a balanced budget, that should be said, with a surplus budget. Unfortunately, this situation that has now happened has wiped it out, which is why this rebalancing. You may also need to see how and how certain problems are being fought or solved, including the economic problems of the country in our environment. Today, we compare a little with those we used to be together with, but we should also see that perhaps more with those who are members of the EU. Even EU members do not have the same access to the coronary virus, many have made mistakes. For example, one Switzerland experienced a disaster, especially some cantons that were toward Italy. The Sweden you now mention, so didn't we have yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the arrival of our people from Switzerland who were infected on the plane and after 3 years, a coronary virus appeared in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206007	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206008	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, but it just seems to us, and we tend to hurt everything we do well, so we've had it for the past 20 days, I say especially by the opposition when it started to question everything. So we're comparing ourselves with a Danish who, say, has ten thousand infected and over 500 dead, when they open schools we say and we want to open schools, we open schools now the kids won't go to school. That's the problem. Why? I spoke to the teachers at my field school yesterday. Not one child of them 40 and something didn't come to school, 77 days on the island we didn't have any infected. The night before, all the kids were playing at the playground. I ask why, she says, I don't want to be the one who wants to determine which nine children they need to go to school or don't need to go to school, as if there's no other options or divisions in any group, etc. And the conversation, the easiest thing to say is okay, but then let's not compare ourselves to anyone. Then let's say that we did something ourselves or that we're better, but let's not keep saying that we're worse if we see if everything else indicates that I think we're much better than many.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206009	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206010	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Treasury, colleagues and colleagues, so until the announcement of the pandemic itself and by the World Health Organization that took place in the 3rd month, more precisely on 11 March 2020, the Republic of Croatia had a balanced budget, had stable public finances, had a reduction in public debt, lower unemployment, higher employment and a budget surplus. In the very health crisis we entered from one significant surplus position in the current and capital account other words of a larger export than imports or a larger inflow of capital than the outflows of the capital itself, and we actually used that surplus during these past years to deleverage to the abroad or to strengthen the foreign reserves themselves. The government was following global events, and knowing that we had already 25.2. had the first case of coronary infection with the virus actually also brought that 63-measure package where it was actually intended to intervene or disperse wherever at that point and what the government and headquarters had concluded as such. This package has been very helpful to the economy, and only to prevent the dismissal of workers. Imagine if there had been a discharge of workers or if the government hadn't intervened, we would have at the Bureau instead of what I know today, 152,000 unemployed, maybe 250 or 300,000 unemployed. At that moment there would actually be a social depression, and we, you on the street today in your places, we can't feel that depression in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the results in the economy that are actually conditioned by this coronary virus. The state has done everything primarily to save people's lives, to preserve the health of its citizens aware that after the pandemic of this virus that cannot be contained in such a way, at least reduce the number of infected persons and that the health system as such does not come into question. This is why this budget rebalancing is here today in the Croatian Parliament, from which it is clearly visible, and these are the figures that are not being hidden, in fact, the revenues that fell by nearly 23 billion kuna, but the government is sending a clear message to both the economy and the socially endangered groups and individuals, cultural workers, farmers, pensioners, in fact to everyone. And when you look at certain items that are related to this budget rebalancing, or those who, for example, have lost it, and these are all those who had to cut their items on the revenue side of the budget are certain ministries that are exclusively related to workers, jobs, subsidies in agriculture and health only. As far as expenditure is concerned, so they stayed at the same level precisely because of the reason and that is the clearest, biggest message from the Croatian government. Some colleagues today have said that the EU has not been involved in this, but it should be said that these EU-related funds are, in fact, made possible by a more flexible approach to be allocated. What I'm trying to say here right now, and there's been talk about it, and some MPs have been talking about it, and I've been getting some kind of, uh, some messages from some of the companies, and I'm going to mention them. So it's 1,200 of our companies that are related to domestic licenses or 800 international or those carriers that don't work in inter-urban or inter-linear traffic but are exclusively focused on tourism and they haven't had any income and have complained of, of course, banks that have been taking credit rates, or they've been getting notices or costs, and one lady told me, the government, the Croatian government, literally said, has done a lot for us entrepreneurs, but of that part we have to give to the banks. So we have to give some of the money to the banks which he doesn't think is good because, now that we're here on interest and expenses, they have absolutely no income. She begged me that the government of the Republic of Croatia intervened in that part, and the government really intervened, and I got it from her this morning, and they said they intervened, the banks lifted all our costs, and they said that as such we don't have to, we don't have to commandeer. So this is extremely valuable and commendable because the government has actually engaged in the best possible way in all segments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206011	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Klaric will be the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206012	You mentioned that so much depression, given the magnitude of the crisis and everything that is happening and compared to our environment. You also mentioned cutting items. Sometimes you have to pay to get more. So what's more is that every preserved workplace, what's more, that's what you're right now going on in the field right now, to keep under the control of the epidemic. And what will be more is what will allow the economy to continue to function normally as it does. We in my town when we were making a decision to release entirely from the communal fee or 50% of those production activities or all those who are a decision of the headquarters, we made a calculation, we lost in this month and a half 2 million and a half kuna, aware that this deficit would get us something much more in the coming months because all those we released now with relief measures continued to function normally, and that's the point So it's not just cutting items that will reduce income, it's what will increase it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206013	Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206014	Thank you very much. That's right, my colleague Klaric, actually after the government's measures were adopted, I needed all the county, all the municipalities and cities to act in the same way that you did. In fact, in such an act in the city of Bakru, you have actually shown that you care about the economy, that you care about jobs, aware that there is no sudden departure of such workers to the Employment Service, which would only then create a certain depression. Do not forget that Croatia is also a country, an broadcasting country and that in fact all the counties in this area should be very careful in this crown and should actually be sort of free of charge of the county precisely because we should welcome the first tourists at a very reasonable time. So, we all needed to be in the interest of getting more involved, far more than the national headquarters, that we would also hire ourselves in local places to keep an eye on such things so that we wouldn't have that happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206015	Thank you. The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206016	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Babic, you are, I understand that you are praising the government and that we are now going ahead of the elections and that you are all delighted with the actions of this government, I missed my colleague Boris for the past month and a half while he was locked up on the island of Rab because we have not listened to such discussions, we who have debated these months and a half obviously have not heard us, I would have preferred that you were here so that you could listen to us. So, we've all given the same solutions and offered proposals from the opposition that you didn't accept or accept afterwards, it doesn't matter, we'll talk about it for the next few days, then two months. So people will weigh but you're looking at your colleague Babic, don't overdo it. So, you said now that there was no measure of government, that a large part of the people would end up at the Bureau and that there would be general depression. Are people happy and not depressed, do they call HDZ those who had a little more pay, say 5, 6, 7000, and because of these measures, the government fell on the minimum? Do you get calls from people whose employers put them on the minimum, they get from the government 4,000 kuna and those 750 in their pocket? So, I'll talk about it in my individual debate but don't make too much noise. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206017	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206018	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, it is good to know how to turn things around in a good way and make it so populistly acceptable to the public. And who's happy who had a salary of 10, 12, 13,000 kunas to pay 3 or 4000 kuna? Nobody's happy. What you're alluding is that the government produced this virus. The government didn't produce the virus, so she's lucky it happened. The government has only acted in the best possible way at the moment. The measures you were taking were too late, they were not acceptable, they were quite populist, so it was necessary to find that money, it was not found and you did not explain it in the best possible way to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206019	Thank you, colleague Djujic. You've caused a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been injured... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206020	Yeah, yeah, I did, uh... Art. In 238, therefore, my colleague Babic insults me when he says that I am alluding to the fact that she produced the virus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, it's not either I'm alluding or I think you're happy about it, maybe you're lucky that the virus showed up because everything that's wrong in Croatia, you say it's the virus. Maybe it's the virus that didn't, say, your ministers couldn't fill the property cards, so 15 of them left this government, it's the virus, no one's guilty. So if anyone's happy about the virus in this country, it's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206021	Okay. Comrade Djujic, of course, you know it wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if it was, then you've done it now, exactly the same. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm still tolerated, I'm probably going to take time, I'm going to become less tolerated. So let’s not use it instead of replicas. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206022	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, here you heard fellow Djujic, he says I was locked up, I watched him on TV, he and his discussions, which were all in order when the measures were taken to increase the budget spending item by about 10 billion kuna, I was surprised that they had no measures for pets, and that was the only thing that was missing so that they would get some compensation. But today we're listening again on behalf of the club of colleagues of Greeks and Lalovec who say you haven't cut anything on the expenditure side, it's SDP policy, I'm lying today, I'm fixing myself tomorrow, and these are the moments we need to go out on some kind of megday ahead of the voters, right? They say we talked to the Most, then this one says we didn't talk to the Most, then I talk to someone on behalf of the Most every day. They've increased the budget expenditure rate by 10 billion and today they're asking why it hasn't been cut yet. They'll probably sort of do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206023	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206024	Thank you very much. Most of the replica was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206025	And I'm sorry, just a little while, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms has, I haven't seen, raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206026	Dear colleagues and colleagues, an officer has been injured. 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Future Honorable Representative, Boris, did not replicate the representative who spoke but, above all, replicated fellow Djujic and then defied himself and you missed him by warning him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206027	Well, of course it's not because if I were to react to it, then I'm sure everyone would have a warning very soon. All right, here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206028	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It's true, fellow Boric, you have partly referred to your colleague, Djujic, but rightly so. His escapades, which were through individual debates, partly cheered us up here in HS. But I don't want to believe what my colleague Djujic said, but even now what you're saying, I don't want to believe that the government had any space to help the economy more, and to developmental social groups. So, according to financial opportunities and budgetary opportunities, the government has given its maximum because of the absence of certain social disturbances, especially those economic tectonic disorders. For 30 or 40 days we were witnesses, it wasn't easy to endure, but the fact is that we didn't get depressed, it's extremely important for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206029	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I'm about to start with may not seem to be related to today's subject at first sight, but it's very much so. And I will begin by congratulating all the nurses in the Republic of Croatia on Sisterhood Day and reminding them that last year, during the summer, nurses fought for their material status, but also for the status of other healthcare professionals, especially doctors, since the doctor is not representative of the medical union and could not participate in collective negotiations. And those rights that the nurses had won less than a year ago are reduced by this rebalancing that we are talking about today because if you look at the rebalancing amount relating to receiving all public sector employees, and that means that the reduction and receipts of those we have been beating for the last two months are on the front line of defense, nurses, doctors, technicians, firefighters, cops, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that this is wrong, not only because we are hitting on the material status of those who have suffered a tremendous burden in this crisis but also because we are jeopardising the speed and possibility of recovery of public finances. The Institute of Public Finance, about a month and a half ago, made and published an analysis that clearly shows that the reduction of wages in the public sector, in fact, has a negative impact on the budget in the short and medium term and in the long term. So in short, we cut the branch we're sitting on. I know you're gonna vote this, but it's still my duty to warn you. The other problem is that many colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me have pointed to the question of support. We have spoken, we have warned, yes, we have spoken, and we have warned both in the assembly and outside it, although it was about the measure that the Government has brought and which has not been appointed by the Parliament that there are no criteria, that money is divided by hand and hat and by those who need it and those who do not need it. And today, colleagues and colleagues, we found out where that money came from. In particular, nearly half a billion kuna has been taken from a fund designed to help employ people with disabilities. For the help of the disabled, for those who suffer in every crisis, and for this one, the hardest to suffer, are the hardest to suffer because they will surely get no job without such help and support. But from the fund that all employers in the Republic of Croatia have over 20 employees, we seized the fund to share without criteria those who pay dividends. And Mr. Aladrdovic can complain today that it was bad and can say that this money will return, but given the way the government acted, unfortunately there is no legal basis for it. And why is that? Because the criteria were prescribed in such a way that they were fulfilled by those who did not need the money. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about the need to react quickly in the crisis and that sometimes it takes away mistakes, but this wasn't a mistake, this was a disaster. A disaster decision that has resulted in catastrophic consequences, and the money for it is on the account that was intended for the most needed in the Republic of Croatia. I won't raise my hand for it, and I can't. And let me just end up with a brief review of the City of Zagreb, despite not living here I have a lot of friends living in those parts of the City of Zagreb who are particularly affected by the earthquake. And almost every day, one of them asked me what would happen to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. And I can't answer that question, probably not you who sit here and look at me, what in... And if you look at this budget rebalance, you'll see that the money for that kind of renovation is not foreseen. Smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206031	Thank you very much. We have replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206032	Thank you very much. You said at the beginning of your debate that perhaps at first sight your debate would have nothing to do with today's topic, but it certainly had something to do with it because do not follow these HDZ people, their discussions today have nothing to do with today's topic, but they are in the campaign. Here's my colleague, Boric, hasn't been here in months, and now he's making up for that part, so I guess he's talking about all the topics we've been talking about for the past month. And these five, six days we have to talk about everything. We need to talk about the reconstruction of Zagreb, we need to talk about 15 ministers who left this government, about property cards, about the Most coalition partner HDZ who brought them to power twice, all of this is a topic. We're in the election now, and it's all about this budget rebalance because he's pre-election, because he's like this, because he's pre-election, and that's why there's no spending-side drop, because we're probably going to have one more rebalancing, some new government, and we have to talk about it, and I'm sick of this situation, so we're not happy, so we're going to be 2 months from now. Being in power, we'll have to pay back your debts and what you've already destroyed three times, so we're not happy about it, don't tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206033	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206034	The Honorable Vice President Reiner is today benevolent, so perhaps I shouldn't have been introduced but used to some stricter criteria, yet I wanted to fence in advance so I wouldn't be warned that I wasn't holding the subject but a joke aside. Yes, this budget is pre-election. Well, it's pre-election that everything that's been going on in Croatia in the last few weeks, pre-election is the press of the headquarters, it's pre-election to pass a Voluntary Health Insurance Act where we claimed that the censorship is rising for some 200,000 Croatian citizens, although in reality it's 12 to 15 000. Pre-election is what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia does, it is pre-election what the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia does. It's all pre-election and what's best of all, and it's legitimate to be pre-election but it's not legitimate to lie about it and that's the biggest problem. They pretend this has some kind of epidemic or some kind of background, but it's actually pre-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206035	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206036	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am glad that you mentioned this and indeed used the right words "abstained" on the portal in Index, in which all employers who do not meet the quota are paying. The lawyer says nothing has been notified or questioned about the fund, thus ruining or preventing it, reducing the possibility of hiring the most vulnerable groups of this society. It's not good and if it wasn't an accident, it shows the fact that the Index portal that the law was amended last month, it's already past the month for such a transaction to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206037	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206038	A respected colleague, right, and that's the problem. All the crises we've been going through have taught us one thing. In them, the first and most people who suffer the most, the migrants suffer, are many Croatian citizens who have gone to Germany, Ireland and so on. They felt because the migrants were the first to start losing their jobs, the minority groups died, the disabled, the disabled. But that the government can stand and carry it in this way and directly grab the fund that is intended, in which it is paid exclusively for the purpose of helping those who are in an extremely difficult life situation, who need help, and I didn't expect it, and I have to admit that I'm surprised by the amount that needs to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206039	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Malacans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is only partly an insight into the financial situation that hit Croatia at the time of this crisis, both central and local finances. This crown crisis in Croatia has invented a lot of hot water, and one of these revolutionary discoveries is that Croatia needs reforms of local self-government and territorial reconstruction. The media, politics, are telling the public that local self-government in this crisis has not acted responsibly, how it has been handled under-disciplined, and that it is, in fact, the worst link in the pandemic fight system. So because the local self-government has so responded, we need a reform of local self-government. The conclusion, however, is true, but the premise that led to this conclusion is entirely to blame. One of the logical arguments offered to us for territorial reconstruction is that, at a time when they were still in force of the e-pass, when communication within local self-government units was limited, the media talked about how there are municipalities and cities that don't even have mail, have no ATMs, have no kindergarten, don't actually have enough residents. So is it local self-government's fault that the Croatian government, that the Croatian post office was rationalized and that they abolished businesses throughout a series of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia? Is that the responsibility of local self-government? One of the following arguments they offer and that tells us about how bad the local state is in this crisis is that the local state simply has no financial capacity to deal with this crisis, that's absolutely correct, but who's responsible for it? This Government, or the Law on the financing of local self-government units, is responsible for focusing exclusively on income tax. So even then, it means that the capacities of the sub-disciplined local self-government as far as finance and administration are concerned, have suffered a huge burden of this crisis because almost 30% of all these gifts we've given to the economy, went to the back of the local self-government. The local self-government is also the first to start layoffs, and it is the local self-government that first began to forgive local taxes or communal fees, communal contributions and all that, therefore, filled its budgets. When it comes to the effectiveness of local self-government, then from all of this is visible and the next is that territorial reconstruction is important, it may be necessary but it is not the most important. The most important thing for the functioning of local self-government units is the way of funding, and right now it is actually showing that the way to finance local self-government is bad, that it is insufficient and that it does not give sufficient capacity to local self-governments to deal with, to deal with these crises. Although, colleagues and colleagues had it not been for the 100th and 100th community of civil protection, there were not 100ths and 100ths of volunteer firefighters, if there were not 100 members of civil protection, the measures proposed and ordered by the National Civil Protection Headquarters would not have been carried out so successfully that they were not implemented locally. It was all on the back of the local community, municipalities and cities again. Not a single kuna still based on the Fire Department is paid to firemen, voluntary firefighters for their expenses during this crisis. But to conclude in the end and these five minutes, that we really need the reform of local self-government, but in this way ad hoc solutions it will actually lead to a completely wrong and even worse situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206041	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206042	Thank you very much. Col. Mateljan, you have well warned that through these measures, and through rebalancing in many ways, it was going to reduce the incomes of local and regional self-government units and not to see models and ways to compensate, and most of these municipalities, cities and counties went with their own measures, support to the economy and among the first to react. Obviously, they will not be able to monitor this in the future unless a model of funding units of local self-government is found, and thank you very much to all volunteer firefighters, because without them many local self-government units could not carry out either the protection of the property of citizens or many other humanitarian projects. And we should also commend the firemen Orubica and Davor who put out the fire last night at the dump site of Bacanska, where there was another fire because of the lack of concern of the local chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206043	Your Honor, Mr. Mathelan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206044	Thank you very much. Yes, a colleague of nearly 70% of all local self-government's original incomes is being taxed on income. With no income tax, we lose 70% of our income. The projects that we are doing, which we must bring to an end, are primarily EU funds projects under measure 7, in measure 6, in this way beheaded financially very, very difficult to bring to an end, and I wonder how we will finance these projects that are the corrections that the authorities will impose on us, I am simply afraid of how local self-government will survive this year. If the government's goal is that local self-government dies on its own then this is a good goal and then this virus will destroy us all together and then these reforms, that reform won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206045	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers, this is what I'm going to begin my debate in a way that I'm surprised that this rebalancing went now in the last week of practically sitting this way, but it's clear and it should be made clear that this is one pre-election rebalancing and unfortunately this is not the last rebalancing this year. None of us are happy that he's coming, but this is evident that when we look at the structure of this rebalancing, so that there's no fall on the expense side of the serious, that government forecasts are what they are in relation to the whole environment, I would even like to say that I have to do it, but this is the fact that this is one pre-election budget and that we need to talk about it here right now. But here I am encouraged to change the dynamics of the debate because I was encouraged to do so by my HDZ colleagues who, in fact, today, especially my colleague, Boris, my colleague Babic, are discussing me in a way that praises my mouth, this one, but it is unfortunate that they remain in that, not following Prime Minister Plenkovic, who says new normal, they stayed in that old fashion because they were gone for a month and a half, so they were set up, their chip to the one before this corona crisis. And we've entered this whole crown crisis into a new, new model of functioning, so new normal, and in a month, two of us are going to enter a fully rebooted, rebooted model of governance. So, what's this about? We have all the time as an opposition to the full mouth of the Government on community, on calling for consensus, on all of us to be together, propose certain measures, offer solutions, offer ourselves to include ourselves in the interests of all citizens solving these problems together, but what we warned about a month and a half ago today is proving to be true. So that's when we said that the HDZ is essentially this crisis, it's like it's only about HDZ and who's the issue of just the ruling coalition and who's not concerned with all the other citizens who aren't HDZ's. Let me remind you that on another package of measures, Prime Minister Plenkovic presented only to coalition partners and the second day brought him here to the assembly instead of presenting it to all parliamentary parties, that we were supplementing ourselves, that we were all giving some sort of solution in the interest of Croatian citizens, no, you're acting unilaterally all the time. On the other hand, we're seeing with this headquarters today, and here it is trying to impute us that we want to degrade this headquarters. You say here they were the same people before, they're the same today. They did, they used to be, they're the same today, they're just saying one thing today, and yesterday they were saying another thing. So, yesterday whoever was breaking self-insulation was a bioterrorist who took a rifle and went into a shopping mall and shot people, and today it's a person who's not infected, who's not dangerous just here is a little bit at greater risk because he might have been with someone else in touch. So this is an indicator of why the devastating political staffing of HDZ is doing. And this is the time when we have to remind the citizens of that, we have to file accounts. So he can't die somewhere 20 people where he's headed by a political key and to say guilty is a virus, nobody's guilty, alive, alive, alive, who's guilty of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206047	And yet it has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206048	So there is, there is, there is, look, so we're afraid in this rebalancing isn't, say, compensation for people who are traumatized. Who's going to pay for these people who buried the wrong woman? They can sue the state, they can sue the hospital, so it has something to do with academics, so in this rebalancing these things were supposed to be envisaged, I don't see them, which is why I'm appealing to it. As for the measures, the government reacted quickly, the first package wasn't, it wasn't so perfect, and by the densest of entrepreneurs, and after their intervention came the second package and ok. I personally have no major objections to that part, but what I want to say. That didn't save jobs, unfortunately, as HDZ colleagues say. It was an artificial breathing to a drowning patient, now that patient, and that patient is a Croatian economy, is currently on the respirator, and if he survives, we'll see. In the interest of all of us, it would be good to survive, unfortunately we don't know what the season will be, or if all these economic operators will survive. Now, I'm already seeing after these first five, six days of some kind of return to the economy in normal, and we see that the revenues have fallen terribly, and the question is, how is this going to end together, and then eventually we're going to see if these measures have had an effect or haven't. Unfortunately, here's my time, it's a little bit of that five minutes to talk about it all, but this Well, yes, I'll respond to the replicas, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, but you will now be able to respond to colleague Leakovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206049	Dear representative Leakovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You warned your colleague, Djujic, that we are being imputed to the demeaning of the professional work of the civil protection headquarters, that is absolutely not true. What is actually happening is that this professional part of the work of the headquarters has been kind of overshadowed in the last few weeks as we have already warned and as visible from the daily presses by a political action of the headquarters, so sometimes it seems to me that experts and experts at headquarters actually degrade our common sense. However, what I am particularly concerned about is today's situation when Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozinovic in fact prevented Mr. Capak from answering the question asked by journalists, so I wonder whether Mr. Bozinović, in fact, is being demeaning, for example, the professional work of headquarters and the expertise of Mr. Capak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206051	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206052	Well surely fellow Leakovic, belittles, Mr Bozinović was what patriotic this was today you can speak, you can't, journalists ask one member of the headquarters he says I'll answer that question, it's not a topic. So yesterday, Mr. Capak said we'd go to the polls with, uh, self-insulating people with a mask and that's normal and that's okay. And that's contradictory of what they said a month ago, that's the problem, that's what we're warning you about. And then today, when the HDZ doesn't like Bozinovic there, it prohibits them from speaking and prohibits them from speaking. Look, that's the problem, Mr. Capak is a member of the HDZ, so it's not the devil that in this country all experts are in HDZ alone, that there are no other experts, I'm not saying that they have to be from the SDP or any other party, let them be impartial, I believe there are. But the problem is, let's say, home in Split, home in Koprivnica, the problem is when they're on that political, Mr. Capak is there because he's politically placed on his post, that should be clearly said, the Emperor is naked, we go to the elections and he is there not because he is the best in Croatia but because he is a member of the party. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206053	Now, now, you've exhausted my tolerance and more of it's not a replica, and I'm not going to tolerate any responses to the replicas. I'll make warnings. which has nothing to do with the subject. [[/Intruder: What?]] This next individual debate was supposed to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate, so he will be the next respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately in the beginning that this very important topic should be spoken of here without any restraints and pointed to all problems because the budget is a document that covers all aspects of the political action of the Croatian Government and when you see this document you must be concerned about what will happen at the end of this year. So, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that already in these technical changes that we have made possible by Minister Marić over the past few months, the crisis has been all sucked up, for example, from the economy and the promotion of certain business activities. So these programmes are almost all deleted from the budget for the past two months and you can see that they are not even returning to this budget rebalancing and then the question is how do we and what do we generally expect from the Croatian economy and how we are going to help the Croatian economy to get on its feet and make sure that at the end of the year there are no more than 400,000 unemployed and that people start working as soon as possible. Because I will tell you colleagues and colleagues the problem is, and it will be very soon for Minister Maric to see the consumption and rework of part of the Croatian economy that will not start working quickly, nor will these traffic be so generous, that it is likely that one large part of the hospitality will fail, and on the other hand, the country's income will be much less. And now that it can be done without talking about the unemployed who will further escalate when we remove this measure of 4,000 kuna, which, by the way, is no longer planned in the budget for the next 3 months, what was initially announced 3 + 3, unfortunately, is no longer in the budget. And what I have to say is that this is the budget and this whole story and announcements and talks of the Prime Minister who will discuss certain reforms, the savings in the area of salaries in the state sector, all together only in terms of elections. Because when you see that in 2 months he has failed to agree and eventually the unions do not agree, and they can understand why the unions do not agree, since they see that there is no coherent policy or any special policy, it is clear that Plenkovic wants to hold elections as soon as possible, try to renew the mandate and then do what he was supposed to do in the talks at the moment. Prepare the state for a few years of major crisis. His only problem is that he won't be able to do it, and we're going to lose months and months of time, and that crisis is going to be much longer than it's supposed to be. And no one here can argue with that. Neither can Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Perić nor Mr. Šuker from HDZ who are the only ones left here and not Minister Zdravko Maric who is aware of what kind of ambition Croatia is falling into, and primarily because of the subordination of Mr. Plenkovic's mandate and not only what he said and fellow Djujic, it is terrible to watch these people now every day explain something that is not explained to us. They started with why they can't do theatres and cinemas and they can hold Masses today, yesterday tells Mr. Capak that people who are in self-insulation can go free to vote and, of course, people no longer have absolutely no confidence in that company, and it would be best if they stop working. Here I suggest that these "missions" at 2 o'clock that we watch every day, or we watch, I haven't seen it in a month, to stop because they're starting to bother people. That would be best for those people themselves and HDZ. Here's a tip, give it to Plenkovic, if he's smart, he'll take it. On the other hand, it is a shame that the city of Zagreb is not even touched by this budget in this situation. 100 million kuna of 40 billion damage, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing, zero. I have proposed an amendment that would increase this to 400 million kuna to try to start to rebuild it, that the state start rebuilding its facilities, that KBC Zagreb start renewing its facilities, Traum, Petrova, so that schools can start working from the state level, given that Bandic's not even beaten, he has spent everything on his godmothers, and it is embarrassing that there is no Rehabilitation Act, that if he is in the Government, he will not be in the Parliament, and it is shameful that the Government of the Republic still has not stood behind the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Plenkovic's chair is important, the minister's chair but the citizens of the city of Zagreb are unfortunately not important for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206055	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206056	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you spoke in your debate you said that unfortunately despite the government's measures, after all this, one large part of the entrepreneurs will fail. That's unfortunately true and that's what the same attention should be about because now that we're going to open the economy doesn't mean that everything will come back as soon as two months ago, three, unfortunately not, we look at every day that people have less income, that one large part of the people haven't opened up at all because they have higher labour costs than to open up, but you know what they're not going to fail? It won't fail those entrepreneurs leaning on HDZ, e.g. who this company founded three, four months ago. from Istria, which by direct decision of Minister Horvat, received a million-dollar job to obtain masks. She was supposed to get 20 million in government, so when the public got up then under the table they agreed on the job without a public tender and then we see that the nephews of the influential HDZ from Osijek, you won't fail, let's say, and these are the same forms of incentives from this government that should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206057	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative. The answer, I'm sorry, is the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206058	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you are absolutely right, unfortunately HDZ is also using these situations to help with its interesting lobbyes, which are likely to finance the HDZ campaign tomorrow. So not only do they use the crown to put citizens and elections at risk when they think the most answers are selfish, but they use the crown not only them but also their Bandic flock in the city of Zagreb to check out some HDZ builders who raised chimneys at multiple prices, I got this information, to see why and how this situation is used and why there is no law. There is no law so that it can be hunted in a blurry, that citizens earn hundreds and millions of kunas on accidents, and that's the problem of colleagues and colleagues, and that's what we need to talk about here. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic to listen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206059	The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206060	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, here's my colleague Maras, I share your thinking here that we shouldn't have put things under the rug and all these structural problems that the Croatian economy has, unfortunately, now that we're just going to feel these consequences of this crisis that hit us and I agree with you in that part when you mentioned the city of Zagreb, the damage from the earthquakes that exist here but I'm going to fill you up a little bit, and I'm going to say that the great parts of the Krapina-Zagorje County are a special pillaric area, affected by the earthquake, and I also don't see any aid measures in this budget for people who unfortunately lost their fault over their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206061	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206062	There's no help, but unfortunately there's no law. So these HDZ, HNS and Bandic games have already made everyone sick. So now there's going to be some chemistry going on again, like the government law, so he's going to be released for debate, so ask God if he's going to get to Parliament, scary. If it hadn't been for two months. Enough to pass a legal solution? So when HDZ needs campaign money, the election law changes in a week, remember that, Mr. Rainer? Remember when it was raised to enable HDZ Yeah, that's the theme for two months. There is no law on Zagreb and when HDZ needed money for the European elections campaign [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Maras, this is not a topic, we are talking about budget rebalancing.]] Why are you guys after me right now? [[/Intruder Reiner: I am giving you a reminder based on art. 239, because you're not talking about the subject, please talk about the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206063	Thank you very much, we have the next replica of Honored Representative Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206064	Here's colleague Maras, you'll now have a chance to say something and I hope you respond to this replica, thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think I know anything about the economy, colleague Maras, but I heard something about when the crisis is then to be spent, and especially that we need to invest in the state, so now we need strong state investments, and I don't think our generation is going to have this opportunity to make one simple and structurally different view of whether it's state, economy and state finances, and that's this opportunity of double crisis. Is the crisis caused by Covida-19, and on the other hand the crisis which could be an exceptional opportunity for the recovery of the domestic construction sector, industry, etc., which is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and, if I remember correctly, I will not quote, exactly but something about it was said in his own time by one famous macro-economyist John Maynard Kaynes when he said that Let's say for the recovery of the building or industry, we really needed this kind of crisis... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206065	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206066	Well, I absolutely agree with you. So this would be a chance to have a normal situation in the City of Zagreb to help and move on to a certain investment cycle, together Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia and to go through the crisis more easily. They'd hire a branch of industry. The problem is, of course, what is always in Croatia in such a situation is that the dishonest people associated with, for example, HDZ or Milan Bandic's party who are then trying to make extra money, not to work fairly, to earn, but to earn 2-3 times as much as they should. I agree that we must also enter this crisis with additional state spending and public spending, should be very careful with certain pay regulation and in the public sector we should go to reforms, those who work should keep their status, those who do not work should be rerouted to the real sector. So I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President for another replica, no, well, okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206067	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Zekanovic, he is missing, and then the next one will lose the right to speak, of course, and the next individual debate will be representatives of Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the library finally opened on 4 May and a half, many were amazed at how many lines were created in front of the libraries, let's say one of them was a booklet in Zadar, and that's a lot of them, which asked many people how it happened? However, this did not surprise those who are engaged in culture, art, who follow cultural policy in isolation in which we spent a good part of this spring, we survived because of the book, because of the film, because of the poetry and because of the picture and there is no really negative answer to the question whether we need culture and art in crises, it is exhaling and asking, we need culture and art even more. However, in the proposal for amending and supplementing the budget, unfortunately I do not see that the HDZ government and its cultural administration are actually leading to this. So, with this budget rebalance, the budget of the Ministry of Culture is smaller if I have calculated correctly by about 8% and it actually at the end of the term of the HDZ Government seems to be approaching again the 2017 amounts instead of just following what I was saying earlier, and this is a strong public consumption and the need for state intervention of investment in culture and art are increasing by confirming that work in culture and art is important, necessary and valuable. The example for strong public investment in culture is today in some EU countries, as have inspired examples, even nearly 100 years ago. So, for those major depressions, the major economic crisis in the United States when it was defined there as a kind of new transaction and this wide procedure of Roosevelt's then administrations of culture and art made widely available creating conditions for the work of American artists, cultural workers on the one hand, and making culture and art available to the other so as to enable them to participate freely in various cultural and artistic programmes and, in fact, here, for almost 100 years, it does not differ from what is in some way the priority of cultural policy or cultural policies of the EU, which is participation, participation in culture, and in this way, the fight against social exclusion and economic inequality, intolerance and prejudice. Of course, the American administration could have said it, so look, it's not a priority, so change your violins or saxophones or ballet slippers, shovels, hooks or rubber boots and you do agricultural or construction. Fortunately, it wasn't like that, and I think it could be such an inspiration from history for us to learn about. I think that workers and workers in culture and artists and artists certainly expected Minister Obuljen Koržinek and Prime Minister Plenkovic to do both in work, not only in principle and gently as they only know how they trust and respect Croatian artists and their work. I can't even believe that the minister, or that Prime Minister Plenkovic, doesn't want in this crisis and the one that's just followed by Croatian artists filming, pretending to write, dance, produce, and in this way we actually have documented this difficult situation, this disaster that we found ourselves in, that in a few decades or just a few years, we can actually look back and say how we lived in Croatia and survived the crown and finally the earthquake and how we got away with it. I don't have much time today, I have submitted several amendments to the draft of this amending budget, but I would still like to warn that I don't think that I should have cut myself on the means of an operational programme of effective human potential i.e. Social inclusion funds, cultural participation. I do not think the first to hit should have been the means for innovative artistic practices because just such artistic practices can now be expressed in new circumstances when there are still no live performances but are also transmitted through some new digital internet platforms. I also warn again that it is indeed a generational project not only for citizens and citizens of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but also for all Croatia and all artists and artists. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be accepted by the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206069	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206070	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am only interested in the fact that you have beautifully elaborated on how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced funds for culture, are you aware that it has also reduced the cultural resources spent by local self-government units since it has reduced income tax resources, which are actually the source of funding for cultural events at municipal and urban levels. And now one inconsistency, so the Ministry of Issues CRO card or card and hints at attracting domestic tourists and I'm now asking a question, and what are these domestic tourists going to do on that sea, or are they going to sit in their apartment that if they manage to pay with that poor money they've secured on that CRO card system in the first place? Is he just gonna take a bath? Will they be allowed to bathe from communal directors who should separate bathers who are not far enough away from each other? Please explain to me who's going to make it up to everyone if we can't at the local level and in the state they don't actually want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206071	Thank you, esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206072	Yes, colleagues Ahmetović, and you have just warned about what we saw in the city of Zagreb already happened and the city of Zagreb has, in fact, the largest budget for culture, and there it happened that in April, in fact, the mayor of Zagreb, M. Bandić, has completely suspended the payment of funds that are related to public needs in culture, so that in the capital that has the most cultural institutions, and I am sure that both the most workers and workers in the sector, we can now see especially when it comes to independent culture, the consequences of such a destructive policy. And of course we can't expect that the tourist season when you talk about it, and you come from Krk, so it will be successful and that we will attract more tourists in favourable epidemiological conditions than otherwise if the sea and the sun can't offer them what is popularly called a cultural product. So culture in any case is not just a cost, culture represents investment and, of course, it is also a job for many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206073	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Panenic, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he's going to speak to the respected representative Marko Vesligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206074	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is every time we discuss the budget, when we are discussing budget rebalancing, this is the first time actually, at least now I think in this mandate that we are discussing budget rebalancing, in this half-year period we usually had rebalancing at the end of the year, but we are all aware that the circumstances are extraordinary, primarily because of the crown of the virus, but also the second thing of course why we are doing today's budget rebalancing are the upcoming elections. As some of the most important documents that this High House always brings, there are always some budgets, there's always some kind of winners and losers, what we can see first from this I'm going to say to the extraordinary budget is that this time the loser doesn't get too much at least when you scratch a little bit, yet there are, a colleague now mentioned a culture here, I'm going to add that a certain loser is also a sport because it gave up some infrastructure investments that were supposed to go through the State Order for Sports but I'm going to say even understandablely in this situation. Obviously, we are also changing a certain economic paradigm not only here in Croatia but also at EU level, and that deficit is obviously not as old as it was, so when we get into such a situation, then we return to certain postulates from the past that some economists sometimes like to call out of date, that they are anacrons but in these situations, we need them very much. Already a few colleagues have mentioned here on both sides of the assembly this one will say a problem that has local self-government, which by freeing the income tax really lost a lot of its assets and will not be able to compensate them through any unambiguous loans or through any other measures because indicators are as they are, but the situation on the ground where you are some kind of line I will say to the citizens, that citizens first address local self-government is anything but easy. Since there are some very vague instructions that come from the national headquarters, from HZJZ, here I will mention a concrete example of kindergartens that you have a situation that if one parent does not work, then can't have his children in kindergarten, that you have a situation so that those who haven't given children to this week in kindergarten can't now give it 2 i.e., then you have the demands of course parents which is why we now have to pay the kindergarten in this period when we don't give children or can't, we can't give it, of course that local children are expected and certain support to the economy, that we will have to help the citizens and we haven't helped them through these measures of government which I must stress that however the opposition here has supported them with certain proposals that were unfortunately not supported, then I would like to see a little bit more sensitivity for local self-government, for all of all the people who do so much in the civil work, but who do not make it in the same way of the civil service to the public service. I'm going to mention that here's something like this from a local point of view, with a regional little regret about this measure for mountain-mounted space that I see that they stayed at some level despite the fact that we've been looking for a certain increase here, but what makes me even more sad and more convinced that we need one change, that we need a different law on mountain-mountan space when you see one of those funds where for mountain-mounted areas you're giving us the means of setting up squares along the seashore itself, for some monuments in Slavonian plains, for editing office spaces in certain cities or municipalities, that's one bad direction in which we go instead of supporting agriculture, I'm pushing that people to live in those areas we've set up funds on an absolutely non-transparent criteria and political likeness. It's bad and we should stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206075	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206076	I'm interested in you talking about the budgets, the budget and the budget of your unit of local self-government in part. I am interested in what you will finance or co-finance kindergarten, which will be co-financed by the school superstandard, from which you will co-finance or finance scholarships to students, you have given up municipal fees, communal contributions and many other measures you have taken. What we've heard here is that the government hasn't given up the projects, but the government hasn't given up suspicious public procurement because there's money, but money that doesn't go where it's supposed to go. Here, explain to me, colleague, is it possible that no one in this country understands that the government has given up 60% of the income of local self-government units, not its own income, is it possible that these revenues are what our parents count on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206077	Thank you. Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206078	Thank you very much. So here, when we discussed measures here, then I said that these measures that the government represents which of its own that it should nevertheless present them as, at least partly as measures of local self-government, given how direct the losses are due to the primarily tax-relieving income were units of local self-government. Look, this year, we're gonna hold out, we've got this loan, and we're probably gonna be able to finance it. My only question is, then, what's waiting for us in 2021, people are used to a certain standard that I'm going to say to smaller environments much less than it is in big cities. However, if we are not able to provide adequate accommodation for children in kindergartens, unless we provide some education in elementary schools, arranged homes of health, I wonder how many people we will be left with in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206079	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206080	I thank the esteemed Vice President. So, Ministers, I want to talk about the proposed rebalancing through positive things, through those I consider negative and ultimately in the light of the elections being announced. So, what is positive, and I particularly welcome is the fact that there are still other means to continue building fast roads that is 160 million kuna for 5 km from Farkaševec towards Bjelovar and 325 million kuna 7.5 km from Križevci to, according to Koprivnica, where public procurement must be opened at the beginning of the 6th month. I also welcome the fact that this budget has found a solution to help the economy that has covered the salaries of employees in those entities who have suffered the economic effect in this crisis in 3rd, 4th and 5 months, and that is what I find positive. What I want to point out to you is that about this help to the economy that has been assessed about 8 billion kunas that you have actually managed to move it, to settle the redistribution within the budget itself, and then I don't like the way you've done it, we don't know how you've been communicating with other ministries, but you have a situation that, let's say, Croatian roads on their 3 billion kuna budget have reduced their budget by only 202 million kuna while, say, one very important segment, and that's the Central State Sport Office, which had really miserable 16 million kunas for the construction of sports infrastructure and 14 million for local sport and the project Croatia swims without that 30 million. So, did it really take one project that was already in the selection phase to which 400 clubs applied, 400 small sports communities to the full? I think you made a mistake here and you had to do a checkup so let's see if the roads on the islands were cut by 812 by just 10 million kuna. So you took all the sport instead of taking the roads to the islands instead of 10, 40 million kuna. Just to see what's important is how much we like to present ourselves through sports in Europe and the world, how much politics and politics are full of sports from national stadiums to I don't know what kind of investments, and you don't even have negotiated funding of such objects from the EU, and neither from the national budget and at this time the crowns when children are on computer classes, when they're too much for computers you've managed to leave them without those basic material conditions, and I believe you're aware that they're objects that were made in the '50s, same after the war, same when there was no money and when there was a crisis. What I consider to be the greatest minus of this proposed rebalancing is the fact that you do not project in it, nor do you foresee potential aid for the economy by 6th, 7th, 8th or 9th, 10th, 11th month when the possibility of returning the crown is mentioned, but also the embarrassing amount of 100 million kuna for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, so much for the reduction of income tax at the monthly level and here is shown one contempt for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. You see here there were broken chandeliers, chimneys in the government and the assembly, and it wasn't waiting, but it got rid of it right away, and all these people in the city center, in the area, waiting for their chance to rebuild, you gave them 100 million and you didn't tell them if this is a rebalancing for this year that you're going to give them anything more and we still see that there's not even in the procedure of the Law on the City of Zagreb. I believe that this is a budget called the fog with which no elections are allowed, that the key basis for future elections should be precisely the key objectives of the 2021 budget to see if there will be a reduction in expenditure or if you will continue to hold the expenditure, whether you will be in debt and whether you will again as in previous crises equalise all tax, single VAT rate or even raise VAT in order to settle expenditures or that you may be able to repay loans if you maintain this level of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206081	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206082	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lacković mentioned the sport, in fact you prepared it in context or compared it with the revenues of Croatian roads. So, actually with the reduction on Croatian roads where you said it was only almost 7%, these are the revenues that they count to have less on different grounds, so they did not deny anything.../incomprehensible/... as well as Croatian highways and other extra- budget users will have slightly less income on a different basis. And as for sports, I've repeatedly stressed here that we should use this now to change things structurally. It's not just about infrastructure, the thing and the cost of keeping it, it's about how they finance sports that primarily run units of local self-government, and we have to turn to people, to children, and put it as a basis for funding each sport. Working with children and how many children are involved in sports, not how the senior team works or whether someone.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206083	Thank you. Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206084	So, thanks for the replica, I agree with you that the question of sports and sports infrastructure is very important. The fact that they had a slightly reduced income was not a reason not to complete the competition, a project that was called upon to register 400 small clubs that wanted to paint their locker rooms, which wanted to buy aluminum goals so that no one would get hurt, who wanted to improve their capacities, people invested in the funds they hoped for something and now came the crown and said no more. So that's how we can really see how long then the redistribution space is going to be, so we've spent, if we took that, then we've taken the last funds that we can redistribute. So I'm asking the question, well, where are we going to keep 147 million kunas of expenditure, we're going to re-indebt, and if we're going to borrow that revenue if we don't raise taxes, if we don't go over to the real sector, what are we going to pay back from?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206085	The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206086	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, I'm very glad that you mentioned sports, since I also said in my debate that it's very strange that it's not in this draft budget and that it actually gave up some of the investments for sports that are extremely important in small areas, you have to realize that there's a playground in the smaller environment that means a lot more than it does in some big city center. I also think it's an opportunity for one reboot to us in this area, and we're not about infrastructure, but also about one expert staff that I think we should have at all levels. So this is not a good one and it's not one nice message that's being sent primarily to young people they're the biggest users of these kind of sports fields, sports content team more than that if we look at the government a little bit of these infrastructure other projects, they haven't given up much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206087	Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206088	So the message that was sent is clear, so we took the most sensitive ones and then what can we expect in the budget proposal for 2021. It is reportedly needed by the new majority, the new government should bring, and the government should, on the basis of the number of patients in Brač, so that is the issue of Brač. So, we can't go with the local themes and the cores of the virus, into an election cycle where citizens should know whether the real sector is going to pay back the cost of this crisis, what is going to happen to the economies that haven't fired for three months now, now they're going to fire, how many people are going to be, what are the projects and projections, where are you going to be in debt and how you're going to approach a serious problem? These are election questions, not questions, whether we are defending ourselves from the crown or not, and what relationship we are with Sweden or Denmark. This is a key question, so who will bear the burden of the crisis? And that's the main issue of future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206089	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206090	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm just going to take a quick look at the extra budget users, namely when we move HZO where we took them and secured a special loan of 2 billion kuna, and we know that we freed people from paying contributions then we get some balance of 400 million kuna for all the others less. Taking into account that Croatian waters plan to cut revenue of 900 million kuna, they also cut expenditures by 235 with something that needed 140 million kunas have gone to 500 almost 530 million kunas of loss. And then there's more or less of it left around here somewhere. Let's just say HAC plans to cut the income of 770 million, and parallelly means 1 in 2 or 50 lips per kuna goes and cut the expenditure, so even less than 320 million, which goes directly to the loss planned by 450 million kuna. And now I'm wondering that 320 million kuna that's going to cut costs, that's most likely non-preservation because everything else that way has to work. You've got people working on a checkout house, either 100 or 10,000 vehicles, fewer of which, of course, may not have been so much, but some base cost remains. And then we come up with that question that we need investment, that we need that stopper, that we need it not to stop and not to maintain it, don't stop and hire subcontractors because they certainly don't do it on their own, but they also have certain competitions that they're contracting to get jobs right now and to finance it from exactly what we've made possible, new borrowings. And that's something that's actually done the opposite of what the state has done. So the state remained at the level of the same expenditure so that it wouldn't generate indifference as well as to generate a certain offer with both this and demand, here they out-of- budgeted themselves and maybe this was the same opportunity, so when we talk about HAC, that a new way of managing and new way of charging, what we've been saying all along, uncontactively and vignettes, etc., etc. Now it's an opportunity, maybe we're already late, but now maybe it was an opportunity to restructure a lot of things. And what I was going to say, which is a lot of times mentioned by the Earthquake Recovery Act, which is why I also submitted one amendment to better fix it, nomotechnically, nothing dramatic, so that the position that is now new to this rebalancing that is opening, which was a damage recovery, is actually to leave it the way it is, to be the position of rebuilding buildings and recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake, which remains 100 million to be used from that position for all the funding that will be covered by the special law that we have talked about today, by the World Bank loans, by using the Solidarity Fund so that we can and the redistribution of the law are already using the same position and having our share in financing and using these funds. So there is no confusion that this position is precisely the one that will be restored and used and paid for everything that is necessary. We can't talk by heart now until we have the law, but we can have a position, we can call it that, and I think it's just clear and loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206091	Thank you, we have two replicas, so you're too late. He is the first respected representative of Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206092	So, fellow question for you, do you think 100 million kunas are foreseen for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb due to the earthquake, is that serious money? If you think he's serious, then please explain how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206093	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206094	I can ask you the question, do you think of a family who has lost their incomes, that 10,000 kuna is serious money? Maybe not to you, it's a lot of serious money to them, or 20,000 kuna. One family to make a normal life possible, that's a huge amount of money. Is that money for all the damage we've suffered, so it's nothing, but when we look through one family, and these are the funds, I just said, so I went with the amendment, to leave the budget to be 10,000 kuna item on the budget, but the law to arrange that we have an item, that we can act immediately after the law is passed, and this 100 million is precisely for these families to allow them to get rid of the chimneys, to allow them how much they are so much that tomorrow when we go to co-finance the costs and designing those damaged buildings, we also have a budget item that we can tie up all the payments. So we always have to look through the prism of one man, and there are 1,000 kunas today very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206095	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. ... You used a colleague of yours, Pernar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206096	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to pick up where I left off with the replica, so a few more facts about health care that are very important to me, and in this budget rebalancing, you probably haven't been able to deal with them enough. Therefore, after this crown of crisis, our health workers who have done a great job, we can all agree, waiting for a very difficult time because a return to regular activity will be a meeting with the biggest debt in the history of health care of the Republic of Croatia. Before the crisis, the total debt was more than 9 billion kuna, the liabilities of 4.3 billion, are now certainly closer to 5 than they are to 4, and given the increased work due to the never-long waiting lists that have been extended in the meantime, the health care is waiting for additional costs and if no concrete steps are taken by Mr. Minister, the health care will certainly be ahead of the collapse in the case of a new epidemic wave which, fortunately, has avoided us in this first wave, however. The direct costs of the health system caused by the current COVID epidemic 19 are now slightly more than 100 million kuna. So these are HZZ data, including costs of testing, hospital treatment and self-insulation disease. So this 2 months. It is an additional 100 million kuna cost of the health system. The new additional cost will come safely if I adopt a legitimate epidemiologist's proposal, that all who are going to go to surgery or search for hospital stay must be tested at COVID 19. According to HZZO data, there are about 700,000 hospitals in Croatia annually. So now add to that the cost of testing and all the additional diagnostic tests that all those who will come to the hospital and have to be COVID negative, so this cost has never been calculated anywhere, never existed before and will be an additional burden to our health system. So for the next eight months. We need to have increased work of the hospital system that has to compensate for everything that's been missed in this 2 months. and it's been missed, Mr. Minister, a lot. So, 40% less examinations were done, so HZZO says it's in this 2 months. a million 711 234 proceedings are carried out less. So we must be aware that this delay will certainly further increase mortality probably from malignancies if not some others. Here's an example of a pulse hospital, it has to make up for 13,000 hits. So the necessary material will be spent, healthcare professionals will work overtime not only in Pula during all of Croatia, and I hope that this will finally start to pay them. Therefore, these are all additional costs and at the same time the health budget is understandable, expected, due to the problem of the economy, is not being charged according to the plan, and it is expected to be more than 2 billion kunas less on the HZZO's income side and will not achieve the planned budget of 27.5 billion kuna, which means that this will further prevent the repayment of debt that is not calculated anywhere. In February, therefore, Minister Beros said that the total debt of health care had reached 9.4 billion kuna, out of which the debt of hospital health was 4.3 billion kuna. Hospitals were making 145 million kunas of new debt a month, for the next 8 months. That amount will be even bigger, just for these reasons that I listed. But none of it has any figures and no letters in this rebalancing, so please, since we or some other parliament will probably have a new rebalancing soon, to finally try to use this crisis, I will say that for the reboot of the health system. So that the health system starts working on different principles, that hospitals are financed differently and that we provide a financially sustainable health system. If you did not pay attention to the health system, it best shows the following example. The Parliament recently adopted amendments to the Law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which said that 200,000 new insurance companies will need an additional 160 million kuna in 2020, which would mean for the remaining 8 months, 93 million kuna, nowhere in the plan of income and expenditure of HZZO where the figures remain the same as before this law. So either it's a pre-election story or you forgot that you had to enter it into the HZZO fund those additional funds that the state would have to pay HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206097	We've got a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206098	Thank you. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I am pleased that you mentioned this question, so during the parliamentary debate, we warned that it was just a pre-election law, a voluntary health insurance law, in which the claims on 200,000 citizens and 160 or 170 000 kuna were put on the table. HSU then had a good bill that would cover, which would significantly increase censorships and probably cover most of the citizens but on a realistic basis and therefore would be sufficient. What was astounding in that debate was the minister or secretary of state here said that he had the oral promise of Minister Maric, beware of the oral promise that he would find the money, however, as you now see no money. It is an unserious preparation of the law, unserious behaviour towards the Croatian Parliament, towards Croatian citizens and, therefore, as we now see, there is no money and it was just a pre-election trick to convince people that their situation will be better and it is the poorest layer of Croatian citizens and pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206099	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206100	Thank you very much, yes, colleague Sagar, that unfortunately shows indifference. I even believe that Minister Maric was not even aware that the law was passed, that changes were made and that it should have been introduced but was needed by someone from the Ministry of Health to report it. Therefore, now to ignore this part of the problem not even for the part that they wanted to show through this pre-election story did not provide funds in the budget, which is only an additional debt that will have health care because the state does not now meet its obligations to the Ministry of Health, based on the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, where every year they pay about a billion kuna less than they should and equally, one other resort that also covers the needs of health care, the health needs of the protégé, the social resor, did not provide funds for increasing the salaries of nurses and the purchase of protective equipment in retirement homes which are particularly risky and should be further prepared for the next wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206101	The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206102	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for amending and supplementing the national budget for 2020 provides for a reduction of expenditure for police employees and for other expenditure on employees and a reduction of EUR 65 million. In a situation where these employees, police employees and, of course, healthcare professionals, along with civil protection and firemen, have exposed their health and life to defend and preserve the health and life of 4 million inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to break the consequences of its inability to maintain such stability of the Croatian economy. Until yesterday, the government boasted of an unprecedented budget surplus, misleading the public with incorrect projections of GDP growth because it was counting on elections in the fall and it was worth starting with an optimistic story to actually justify its successful mandate by autumn. But the corona came to the government as an order to justify everything she had deceived the public with that very crown. I remember, Minister of the Horvat Economy very knowingly in a live show, he manipulated that the requirements for wage reduction and expenditure in the public sector meant and the reduction of wages, and, behold, the miracles, the police, the fire department and health workers, and he asked rhetorically whether it meant that we should reduce their rights by putting ourselves in the role of the great protector of the rights most responsible for the defence of health and life in this corona crisis. As an economist, I have not heard a relevant talker who has advocated a reduction in the rights of healthcare, police and emergency services, but I have heard that the total mass of salaries generated in any agencies that are themselves or just that mass of mercenaries or subscribers I would say, the purpose. From manipulation to execution, according to the government's prescription to the execution of the existence of those whom Minister Horvat manipulatively singled out to differentiate political insinuators. But let's get back to the budget rebalance. With this rebalancing, the government proposes to reduce the expenditure on police employees of 65 million kuna, and this applies to the material rights of employees, jubilee awards, goddesses, gifts to children and regressions, and I could support that reduction and even if I didn't know how much the average salary of a police employee who is exactly the one from the beginning of my first line of defense, not only in this situation of the health crisis but every day, for 4500 kuna a month that policeman risks his life and his health, at the daily level suffers the threat of not only physical but also mental health even when there is no such sinister pandemic. Then when most of us don't suffer from anything, that cop's terrified that we wouldn't have to worry and earn a salary of $4,500. Any addition to that salary to it is a fire in which you will-not, people with that level of income are found every month and are now left without it. We all know Croatia here, there are chronic lack of police officers. And despite the lower criteria for hiring these cops, does anyone think it's normal to agree to this kind of crying, 4500 kuna, wearing a head in a bag every day? You call for the solidarity of the whole society, so not the solidarity of those who do not have but those who have or have too much. Those who don't have, have nothing to solidarity with. By reducing the material rights of police officers, the few police officers who still stand on the defender of the country's security regardless of the crown or without it will not stand for long. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia police officers are not needed but are some others, it is essential that an employee in the administration of a regional fire department financed from the state budget. It takes so much to be paid out of public funds by the university and there are essential employees but they are not police officers. An essential employee, ladies and gentlemen, is, say, the chief advisor to HERA. The basic gross salary of that advisor, listen, 26 500 and he is so essential that despite meeting the conditions for retirement, he will not retire yet but will continue to work at HERA. And there are a number of other essential employees who unfortunately collect their loyalty to one foreigner, the money of all taxpayers, the essence of this rebalancing which is nothing more than stroking our eyes to all of us, cutting off those who really work and leaving or deepening the syncure to those who have been squeaming us for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206103	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206104	Thank you very much. So, fellow Ahmetovic, you were talking about a completely reckless reduction in the salaries of police officers, and I have to rely on that because when we have all realized that the oldest in the case of the COVID 19 epidemic, nothing is done to protect themselves and that in this budget, funds are already being put in place to ensure better protection so that 1800 nurses working in retirement homes have insufficient protective equipment, one sister comes to 89 wards with mental impairment, employers are taking away their vacation days, homes are without computers, sister lists are being held manually and no funds in the ministry. Bedekovic is not expected to, however, avoids responsibility because the chamber has asked her for an urgent suspension in the payment of nurses' salaries, employed in nursing homes. So another example of how this government doesn't recognize the right priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206105	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206106	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I would just point out and add to what you said and the fact, I was hoping to find in the budget the increase in salaries to police officers when the material rights had already expired, but I didn't find them even though the officers were hoping for a 1% increase since 1 June, and they were hoping for an increase of 2% since 1 January 2021, we're talking about the ESS, and they were hoping for a 3% increase in the 3% of the 1st of September for the VSS and we understand each other, and that's nothing compared to the absolute amount of this percentage is nothing, given how small these wages are. However, no, they will be left without it, but even without what it means to them, this is the kind of patching up of their poor budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206107	The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, I am very pleased that you have actually mentioned how miserable this salary is in this case of a police officer or a police officer, so it is some 600 euros because in public space very often it is said that our public and state officials are etc. Prepaid, that there are too many of them, that they don't do their job well herl. And then where it goes to cut, it goes to cut first, so on these public needs let's say so. I think it is extremely important to point out constantly how important it is to maintain a certain level of wages and material rights in the public and state sectors, why? Because if we're going to strip down to the end of a really strong anti-corruption element, how important it is that judicial employees, that cops, cops, get paid well, it's certain that corruption has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206109	The answer of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206110	Thank you very much. counterpart Leakovic, yes, I agree, may need to reduce the amount of salaries in the public sector, but the amount of salaries that were made to the agencies only to be set up, to the state institutions that were founded only to form, the people who have from the secretary of the secretaries of the secretaries. These masses of wages are the ones to be cut and not the masses of wages or salaries of those who have the lowest wages and their safety, their health, their life most exposed to this country in order to preserve the lives of those and the health of those who do not care about the health of those who safeguard that health, if you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206111	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206112	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, you mentioned police officers and police officers, I join your warning there, and I would like to add to this situation where we see Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers in the Government, Maric and Minister of Labour, trying to force teachers, teachers, as well as to reduce their wages, given that as well as the lack of full work and the crisis had ruled and were not at the disposition and I know that teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers in schools are working now and more. Here today, two, three kids in class are in class, and then when they come home, they work with the other kids online. So it would be a great injustice to cut off those personnel that have been paid for years now that they've finally got certain rights, now they're using the crown to take it back, we can't let that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206113	Thank you. Dear representative, nothing. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206114	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, it is good that you have mentioned that it is unacceptable to reduce salaries and the rights of employees of the MUP or police because we have repeatedly debated and asked that they have higher salaries, that they have better equipment and that they have more rights and are not only a problem of wages but also material compensation for their other rights, for example, a large number of police officers from Slavonia are working in Dalmatia and with such a small salary they cannot afford to pay for either the apartment or the accommodation or the food, and many are therefore giving up and leaving the police, and it is unacceptable to reduce their wages when we talk about the need to invest in this system. And secondly, you were talking about agencies and that some should be abolished, so here, this government has abolished about 20 agencies under the parole of savings, the selection service has been abolished, the Croatian Agricultural Agency has been merged with the Ministry of Agriculture, we haven't seen these savings, and on the other hand I have information that these employees have also been paid an increase, so one is abolished, others are still paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206115	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206116	Thank you very much. A colleague, so I would like to demystify the amount of these material rights, these jubilee awards, these Christmases or similar let's say firefighting measures that people survive that month for which they actually did. So these are the miserable amounts with which the government will save absolutely nothing. What's the fact that these people consider themselves and call each other public arrests just because they wear an official uniform and no one thinks about how these official uniforms actually force them to be on the road, force them to be happy with such a small salary that they work on Sundays or nights that some fund makes hours thicker and some kind of salary such a decent profit they haven't been able to feed their children, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206117	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206118	Dear chairmans, they say the crisis has come, say we must all bear part of the burden and that we should all bear some kind of sacrifice. I know that many owners of space didn't charge, say, a full rent or the same thing with landlords. I know that certain duties have been reduced or suspended, but there is one category in society, one sacred cow that gives up nothing. These sacred cows are private banks that even the conditions of the moratorium continue to account for the loans of their debtors. Of course, it should be noted that certain groups do not even have the right to moratorium, such as those of tourists who travel to Plitvices from e.g. China, they have buses, they're banned from working, their tourists don't have, but the rates of lying come on the charge no matter what. And what happens in the end? Finally, we have a situation where debt is growing exponentially, that banks have actually profited most in this situation and, of course, they will be able to buy property and citizens and shares, etc., which has now dropped value due to all of this and the question is, who is actually the holder of government in the country if everyone has to give up and one category, banks have to give up nothing, the question is, are banks owners of Croatia or better said, real persons who have a position of power and power? My guess and the thesis is that they are, it's my thesis that they are above the state because as I said, what they are allowed to do, what they can do, nobody else can do, and nobody complains about it, did they see the media? The same media that crucify this government, the same media that crucifies all possible people and non-humans in this country, banks that don't want to give up interest, don't mention. Why? Why is it allowed to spit on Marić, on Šuker, on me, on Maras, Boric, Lackovic and every other person in this country, but there are no media spit banks even though they do what complete society normally does and what they shouldn't do in the normal state. Now I'll tell you why, because the banks are media owners, the same hand rules everyone. Someone's going to tell Mr. Pernar that some media isn't the owner of a bank, it's true that it isn't, but the owner of that media depends on these banks. I remember once there was a contribution to an act, we were in the field, a journalist told a private television station, Ivan, we can't tell which bank it was because we're in charge of them right now, so it would be awkward. The same thing with the state, the state raises billions of moons of credit with these same banks as embarrassing to talk against them, yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how banks are through lending and here you have Ninoslav Pavic, so-called. The EPH holding as much as they owed this man and indirectly controlled the contents of the Morning List, etc., because the Jutarnji List went against the banks, the question is would the banks say that, yes, Nino can take you and the 10th mortgage on them 9 of them on the building in Odranska. I'm trying to point out to you, dear citizens, and it's up to you to trust me or not to trust me. You can trust those journalists and editors and the media who claim to be free and independent, if they weren't bribed, if they weren't under the rule of the banks or the state or whoever, and you can trust me as well, who I'm saying that the media is generally, under great influence, dared to say, the crucial influence of both banks and states or that the vast majority of the media in Croatia is not independent and objective. So let's just remember the famous Hanžekovic Mason who was always ironing over me through the Jutarnji list, although now he is no longer alive but the Jutarnji List continues in the same direction as Mr. esteemed favorite of the people, whom the President calls a great humanist and philanthropist, where he left off. Well, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206119	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be respected representatives of Glasovac, not having it, losing his right and the next one being spoken by respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206120	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here at the end of this debate we are all aware that this proposal is a change and a complement to the budget of the rebalancing relationship, in a certain way the consequences of the crisis caused by COVID 19 and all those measures and financial effects that we have behind us and that this has to be reflected in the budget, is an emphasis of course on the preservation of health, on the care of all our citizens, and there is another great congratulation for all public health workers, in hospitals, in all other institutions that have made their contribution but also a great thank to the citizens who have been responsible and stayed at home so we have good results. What worries me and us at HSS is that this second measure, which is the preservation of jobs, has certain shortcomings, and we think, above all, and I've already spoken to 30 thousand people who have lost their jobs in the meantime. There was a proposal to find an emergency model and a way to help them, we don't see it here in the budget rebalancing and I said already in the replica of the minister, the problem of seasonal labour from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema which will surely remain jobless in the coming months, because tourism obviously won't be and the minister has promised to find some model for them too, but here, in this rebalancing is gone. What's visible here is that the real question is what to invest in, what industries to invest in and how to invest in tomorrow because, of course, it's important for us to have every job but we need to determine strategically towards those industries, those branches that will employ as many people as possible and where people will have a large and quality job and quality personal income to live on from it. It is not good that 500 million kuna for the public sector has not been provided, although it is signed, so it is a bad message and keeping jobs in Croatia especially if we want an educated workforce then it is not possible to reduce their rights and personal incomes for the people who are the bearers of that, that quality workforce and quality education staff tomorrow. In Europe, we are talking about a green plan, about green measures, Mr. Timmermans emphasizes that forestry and the diagonal industry should be a future priority, from this rebalancing, we do not see that something more significant is being supported by the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia which employs over 50,000 people and who first felt the crisis caused by the coronary virus because most of them are exporters and we are asking that in the coming measures certainly this branch of the wood industry more specifically which processes wood mass into quality furniture and other products. What's not good is that the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection lost this rebalance with 432 million kuna. And these are mainly the funds that needed our home construction operation to provide water supply, water treatment, wastewater purification, waste disposal, and this gives us a picture and a message that we will continue to have a problem with waste disposal as last night was in Davor municipality where the dump was set on fire and I have repeatedly written Minister Coric's response to what is being brought there, what amounts, in which way he is being taken care of, we see that he is inadequately taking care of it and that he has been fuelled and loaded for the environment there and for drinking water for 60,000 people there and we are looking for answers and we are looking for answers and we are looking for the responsibility both of the minister and the mayor of the municipality. Of course, in my debate on agriculture, which only 0.6% received more funding here, the minister boasts on the ministry's pages with an additional 120 million kuna for direct payments and with amended rules that up to 70% may be paid up in advance by November and the rest to 100% will be secured in the state budget. These 20% to 30% which should be secured in the state budget are not even in this rebalancing, were neither in the 2020 budget nor in the budgets 2 or 3 years ago. Our agriculture is thus damaged by over 2.5 billion and with the right of the Association of Agricultural Producers is looking for and the peasant alliance of the new Agricultural Development Fund if we want to produce food then we have to invest in the village and agriculture and it is unacceptable that we now have about 2500 pigs of the breeders that our producers cannot sell, that the florists are in failure because they cannot sell flowers, that the winemakers have not sold any buttocks of wine, and that the minister is not saying anything about it, and that we are not talking about agricultural land because in 4 years she has not even 50 ha put into office through a public tender and there is no interpretation of the ban on the sale of land to foreigners even though she promised that it was a done thing, so I ask the ministers., what do you do or just take pictures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206121	Thank you very much. Now we have final words on behalf of the club of representatives, first of all that MOST and independent lists on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206122	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who have an interest in following this, Minister. This rebalancing i.e. This corona crisis is repeating it for I don't know which time, nakeded all the bad policies in the Republic so when we look at this rebalancing, it's essentially showing again that we don't care about those who are most responsible not only for this crisis itself but who care about health, who care about our children in schools, but as a Parliament, we didn't have the strength to make one decision, that is. The government, as a representative of the Government, did not have to bring a key and first measure and this measure should have meant moratorium on loans and interest banks, so that this effect of this rebalancing on our citizens will have nothing but a negative effect, as colleagues had just before and listed, from agriculture, from Croatian police officers, from all of those, from medical staff, all those who should have felt better in this crisis, who had to as well as the entire Croatian people who had to from the banks i.e. you had to have the courage to propose as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance, have the courage to defend this Parliament, that the moratorium on loans and interest because we know that the banks are the most polluted in the Republic of Croatia, that the people have invested most in these banks without going in, they go back far back into recapitalisation, but we know that the ministers, the banks have a profit of 4 billion kuna per year only on fees and fees that we have, 400 and more at these small amounts, but there is a huge amount of money. So this rebalancing isn't essentially revealing everything, not just about the crisis, but what's crucial for our citizens is that in this crown the crisis is essentially about this, because it's visible after Mr. Capak's statement yesterday that we can only go to the elections that we're in isolation and that we should have tracked our cell phones that simply this impact of closing the economy, the closure means tourism that is literally going to be in big trouble, the small tenants in big problems, the big one, all of which is going to be at this moment in huge trouble that simply this rebalance isn't helping those who needed help. Local self-government is mentioned, yes, local self-government has huge counties. Countys are the main brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia and I argue that no rebalancing, not a single budget on it counts, and basically a large part of the decentralised funds of the ministry, goes through, goes essentially for health care, education in the county, and that money goes who knows where to go because it goes where it needs to go, then we would have well-developed health care today, mainly in rural areas, but we have less and less health services and people are leaving us. One of the key problems that has been mentioned is the World Bank report, which says that the most people who receive money from, who have a large share of GDP from foreign transfers that our people who have moved out, send to their families and family members, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has 20% of GDP, the colleague is funny but it is the fact that our citizens have been evicted and that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And at this point, the World Bank says that 20% will be reduced funds from these figures, however, as far as Croatia is concerned, we are in the most risky group because we have 18 billion kunas a year from those people we have emigrated to poor policies. I asked the minister here and I expect him to answer me what with these people who have lost their jobs in Ireland and how much he expects a lack of money from the credits at the level of the budget, the effects, he can't, of course, he said himself, but the effects will be devastating. And we don't think about those people that we moved out and who came back, I don't know if they have any rights or any measure of direction towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206123	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will finally speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206124	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister Maric, at the end of this debate, I would like once again to highlight some of the most important proposals in front of the party Let's change Croatia. The word rebalancing means establishing a new balance. The expenditures remain the same, the kuna is not reduced, the revenues have fallen dramatically and will unfortunately fall even more, to establish this new balance, it's a huge minus, here says 25 billion kuna, so you have to be in debt. Could you make savings or cut expenses on some things? Yes, it is. I said in the morning that in these four years you could have saved 15 billion kunas that you had refinanced all debts, the kuna debts of the state, you didn't. I asked the IRS for information, asked how many taxes you have not charged in Croatia. They've answered 28 billion kuna. Dear citizens, if only 50% of them had succeeded, insisted, they had charged 28 billion kuna, that is 14 billion kuna tax. Add these 15 I said savings, that's 29 billion kuna, so my people, we'd have extra money from what it takes from 4 billion. These are the people who run this Croatia, but they taught themselves one thing, it doesn't matter what the deficit is, but we know how to put you in good debt. So you don't care about such arguments. Next, Mr. Minister, at 7pm. Comes, comes the euro bond of a billion and 250 million dollars. You're already negotiating how you're gonna take a new loan in dollars. So come on, man, pay it off from the foreign reserve already. We have a net foreign reserve of 15.5 billion euros, which is one of the largest foreign exchange relations compared to GDP in the EU, so don't lend us the end of our money, we keep our dollars, euro outside at 0% or 0.1, and then boast when you put us in debt for 0.75%, that it's a historic success. Well, that's terrible. Pay it off from foreign exchange reserves, please listen to what I'm proposing, so have strength, that's our money, so it's not Austrian and German, it's Croatian citizens' money, you have it, do it, I ask you. Furthermore, the return of the money that the debt agencies received because they sought minimum wage for their workers, one of the most famous debt enforcement agencies, was founded in 2013 for 500 000 kuna and today has retained profits of more than 400 million kuna. Does he tell you what that information is? That they systematically robbed Croatian citizens. You're looking for a return to the state budget tomorrow. You're looking for a return from casinos, bookies and all those who have a fat profit in recent years. There must be social justice in this country. And in the end, don't get into the euro area anymore, into the euro, why are you kicking? Well, you see, the public debt is going to break through almost 90%, no country where I was, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, not to speak Denmark, Sweden, but not to their minds. So who are you trying to show that we're in good shape, that we can take over the euro? Well, the euro zone has never been in a bigger crisis since 2008 than it is now, and it's even more of a problem. Let's stop, let's be wise, let's wait. Why do you hate our kuna, first of all, those who run the CNB, why do you hate our Kuna? Well, my people, now you have your own currency and your own central bank, so it's a blessing, let's use it. Therefore, suspend payments to II. Retire the pension column and that 500 million each month to save the economy. Look, I don't have enough time, concrete suggestions. And nothing and listen to this, stop paying off 87 million kuna support subsidies to members of voluntary pension funds. Why are you stimulating them now? Well, they have money anyway, it's not mandatory. Now I could put another hundred million together here. Dear citizens, I will stand here, the elections are at the door, only professional and honest people can save these countries with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206125	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, the first item will be the Final Proposal for the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. Have a nice evening. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206126	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 996. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes 79 for, 47 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 has been passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work, always the first day of the week when the plenary session is debated by clubs and independent representatives in their free debates, but before that I will only suggest that I base an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and '22. i - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Are we in agreement? Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206128	Mr. President, since you're proposing a united debate, and the topic is extremely important, it's about budget rebalancing, then I suggest you at least extend your ability to speak for the clubs. I think it's extremely important, so here I am going to support a united debate, give it more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206129	Okay. Clubs that, clubs well, five minutes individual, clubs can be 15 minutes, okay? Okay, that's fine. Thank you very much. As we have decided, we will conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projection for the year 2021 and 2022 - In addition to the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for the year 2021 and 2022, it is also submitted: - Proposals Amendments and additions to the financial plans of extra-profits for 2020 and projection of plans for the 2021 and 2022 for: - Croatian Water - Croatian Roads - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Croatian Highway - Autocest Rijeka-Zagreb - HZ Travel Transport - HZ Infrastructure and - Final Proposal of the Law on Changes and Completion of the Republic of Croatia. No. 946; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 39. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Article 2 shall apply. 211 and 212. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal of the State budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditure and expenditures are simultaneously proposed in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Zdravko Maric, to give us further explanations of the proposal, several MPs reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First colleague of the Grumo for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206131	Your Honor, I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before you moved on to this, the point of budget rebalance, so it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 143 and 144. I asked the Croatian government more than 30 days ago to answer why Belgium was removed from the list of countries that needed self-insulation. Belgium is a million-dollar country in Europe Just a minute. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] timed out [[Intruder: No, time's up.]] It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I'm not responsible, Belgium is the country in which millions of people, the most dead of the coronarys, the political decision has been removed. [[Intruder: And that's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] from that list, I asked to be answered by that question, it's very important in the context and what my colleagues were saying, [[Intruder: Comrade Grmoe, your time is running out.]] A measure of self-insulation, that even at one point some bioterrorists, at another point can go to elections. [[I'm asking you to finish.]] We have a situation... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206132	I've got to shut you down because it's already gone, so you've been through twice the time, I've got it all figured out. You're being... I will again write to the government to answer that question, that is the authority I can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for Belgium, indeed, it has 3 times more inhabitants than Croatia and 100 times more dead. So much... is, therefore, 100 times more dead than Croatia, and 3 times more inhabitants. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just saying how good our measures were. Comrade Maras, you're picking up... I guess for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: And you're making political decisions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206133	Thank you very much. Here, after the epidemiologist of Grmoje and Jandrokovic who have established what is happening on the Croatian scene, I ask you, Mr. President, to stop this debate until Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic shows up in the Parliament because he should submit responsibility, this is my request as representative in HS that whoever is most responsible for the situation in Croatia come to HS and present the budget rebalancing [[Intruder: Excuse me, is this a request for a break, colleague Maras or what?]] In which, unfortunately, just a second, I finish my sentence. [[Okay, I'm asking you to sit down now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206134	I will right now, no, you have no right, this is business not what you're saying and what you're doing, and I will now call you as soon as we're done with my part of the Prime Minister's presidency that Mr. Maras of the Parliament wants him to come here. Here, I'll do it right now, and we can take a break, if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206135	Now I'm gonna ask for a break and I'll explain. ... Let me tell you what to tell him. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. [[Tell him what to say. Please, come on, come on.]] I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult and tell the Croatian public that Mr Plenkovic, who is after the elections to save his chair, is unable to come to the Croatian Parliament and explain to Croatian citizens what is changing in the budget, stands behind it as the most important document of his government. [[Intruder: This is now a request for a break?]] So, when it comes to budgeting, rebalancing or budgeting, it has to have a qualified majority, 76 MPs, and it's either there or there isn't a majority for his government. So he avoids that kind of debate because he doesn't have an answer. There is no answer for which there is no Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb in the city of Zagreb and there will be no reply today. There is no answer to the question why there is chaos in Croatian schools, which is why my children are now sitting in the office with me at work, instead of being at Croatian school, at their school, the oldest school in the city of Zagreb and learning and adopting knowledge. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is unable to organise a normal life in Croatia and restart teaching. There is no answer to the question why there is no more money in the Croatian budget for the economy, which is why no funds are provided for the continuation of economic measures in 6th, 7th and 8th months. So there's no answer to all those questions. Mr. Jandrokovic, you make fun of and make fun of and pretend to be arrogant here, but Croatian citizens are aware that everything you do, do not do for them, but do for yourselves. To stay in that chair, to keep him in that chair, to worry about Plenkovic and Jandrokovic for Croatian citizens, and that is pathetic, Mr Jandrokovic, and I am sorry that you act like the President of the Croatian Parliament. Keep making fun of her and keep making fun of her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206136	Please sit down. I don't make fun of anything, you make fun of the Rules of Procedure and the people who sit here every day, every day, every day. You're one of the agents who keeps doing the incidents. And don't tell me to make fun of myself and I'm proud because that's not who I am. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206137	Article 238, so Mr. President, you have no right to share qualifications, you are the first among equals. You have no right to qualify your representatives and to give your grades and it's not funny. I told you, Mr. President, your chair is your only interest. And that's pathetic, that's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206138	Comrade Maras, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206139	And I am sure that Croatian citizens will especially in your case...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206140	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206141	...to identify what it is, and also to the case of Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206142	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206143	I'm asking you not to do that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206144	Comrade Maras, please sit down. Well, don't, you insulted me first, and then you tell me I can't answer your insult. It's the logic of one trapped mind that thinks that he has the right to teach each other lessons and accuse the other of having to listen and keep quiet, and that's not how it works for you. Oh, come on. Okay, is there anyone else who's picking up? My colleague Grumo was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206145	I'm giving up this, I don't want to participate in this conflict, I've asked a specific question, I'm not a colleague of Maras, I've asked a logical question and I'm withdrawing this request for.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206146	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't continue at 11 o'clock. It's 10.50 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.01 HOURS]] I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Marić to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206148	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's the first sentence I have to say, at least so far in my personal term as Minister of Finance, I've never come before you with a budget rebalance in the first half of the year, but this time, the crown has done its part, so it's kind of brought us back together in the 5th month. Here, in any case, as was the case on several occasions, discussions and talks in HS on the first round of measures, the second round of measures, inter alia, was adopted by the Government, a convergence programme, a document that is an integral part of the process called, you know well the European Semester, and we have in some way fulfilled our obligation to send to European institutions, notably the European Commission. But more importantly, it's a document that we came up with updated projections macroeconomic for this and next year and what's most important for the word are actually the key figures in these new projections. Given the knowledge, information, data, forecasts, global flows and everything we take into account in these macroeconomic projections, we have come to the conclusion that this year's economic downturn of 9.4%, so the GDP decline of 9.4%, and you know well when we represent the 2020 budget, then we talked about growth of 2.5%, means significant correction and what we all know very well, we don't have to be economists, we don't have to be macroeconomics, we don't have to be macroeconomics that the circumstances that the covid has caused, and especially the part about how we say this, the closure of the economy or the closure of the economy ultimately have effects on these indicators. All GDP components other than state spending are also negative, so starting from personal consumption, which is also due to all the imputements that we usually take with such projections is 7%, the decline in investment somewhere around 9%, the decline in exports of goods and services, so both goods and services, and 30%, in our projections, or as a base assumption, we put a drop in the number of foreign tourists' overnight stays by about 70%. So tourism as an integral one of our strategic branches is in these numbers of exports of goods and services, actually exporting services as such. These projections also provide for the decline of imports of goods and services, it is the eternal one I would call the topic of import dependence, so now in circumstances when economic activity falls, when personal and investment consumption falls, then we have a decline of imports, but it is certainly an element that we all need to take care of together in some other circumstances, not only of these, let us call them so crisisous. As for the assessment of inflation or the consumer price index for this year, I say again, not only on domestic elements, so here we are talking already well-known simultaneous shock that on the side of the first instance offers in the first step, and now a marked shock on the side of demand. However, global flows are also taken into account in the consumer price index. We all know and follow well what happens to the prices of some raw materials, energys mostly oil, so for this year, among other things, we put a negative sign back in the projection, so a mild deflation of 0.3%. The most important variables in addition to this move on the labour market are employment, unemployment and wages. As far as employment is concerned, a fall of around 3.3% and a rise in the unemployment rate is expected to be 9.5%. So, all these projections that we had brought in a week earlier under the Convergence Programme have served as a basis, and we have sufficient reason to go into the changes to both the state budget and the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which is an integral part of these two points, given that the debate is united. As for the fiscal projections themselves, so the revenue side of the budget, I'll just remind you that in the original form of this year, the state budget of the revenue side of the budget was foreseen at 145 billion kuna. Taking into account all these new macroeconomic projections that are clearly and inevitably reflected in the revenue side of the budget. So the revenue side of the budget dictates two basic, two basic facts or two basic segments. One is that we have put certain measures in place to help the economy and taxpayers, and in particular these are measures, i.e. measures relating to the postponement or partial, partial exemption from the payment of certain public taxes specifically direct, income tax, income tax and income tax. However, an even greater effect on our forecasts will be of course from the expected decline in economic activity this year, which will, of course, reflect on the revenue side of the budget. And now that we're going to do an item by item, but I'm going to start with these total figures, so instead of 145 billion 140 million for this year at the state budget level, we predict 121 billion 950 million. So 23 billion and 200 million kunas less than originally predicted. Of course, when you look again, the item per item, the biggest correction in absolute amount is again on the highest income of the state budget, and that is the tax on additional value, but we also see adjustments on all other forms whether we talk about profit tax, whether we talk about contributions, whether we talk about the excise system, and then some others. However, I think that in this rebalancing, of course, we will respond to all your replicas and comments, but in some ways we are more focused on exactly what we call in the tax revenue budget, so tax revenues and contributions. The waste side of the state budget, the waste side of the state budget, given the situation, the outbreak of the Covid epidemic and all its reflections and all its reflections and on the Croatian not only economy but the society of us as a whole, put one additional challenge, which is that, in relation to the intended expenditures and originally planned, there must be additional sources of funding from one side of the health system, so the need for additional procurements that originally no one could or should have predicted in terms of protective equipment, masks, respirators and all that was needed to preserve human life's health, which we all said very clearly at the outset, I would have said in the beginning and agreed that the primary objective or call it such a zero goal, but also some measures that were put in place among others to reduce or to so many possible neutralise the damage to our economy. Therefore, aid measures as we referred to them mainly as economies of the horizontal nature of measures relating to direct support to employers for the payment of part of their employees' salaries, of course, on the condition that jobs are preserved. So, you can see from, I would say her own name, but also the structure of the measures, so measures to preserve jobs and, of course, measures that should also preserve the standard of Croatian workers or employees. This measure, which is not originally envisaged, and when you add and add to it and the effects that the state will not only pay for the support of the original 3,250 and for the 4 and 5th and 4,000 kuna, but also all public contributions, in this particular case, are contributions. So, all together we get to the level of about 7 billion kuna, when you add these original millions, and today we're already 100 million additional for healthcare, and then we come to what we as a government have drawn out in this rebalancing, which is that despite these increased expenditures, increased payment needs from the expenditure side of the budget that we didn't originally plan, and you hear ourselves talking about amounts of over 7 billion kuna, on all other items of the expenditure side of the budget, we find savings and corrections or cuts in all resolutions to bring the total expenditure side of the budget to the same level as originally planned. And it was actually a great effort that we have made in recent weeks, and I will, of course, thank all my colleagues in government and government, of course, and the Prime Minister for supporting that our basic draft, or in some way, leading the fiscal policies that we've been doing all this time, is I going to remind you once again that not one more year, in recent years, those beautiful years without Covid, not one year have we broken the budget's expenditure. And when we had a better budget, and every year that was the case, all that extra income was being rerouted to tax cuts and tax evasion and public debt cuts in the Republic of Croatia. This principle, unfortunately this time we have no surplus income, we have a deficit, but we continue to retain this principle in these circumstances very challenging with great pressures on the dissipating side and we want to maintain and not penetrate the overall side, or the total level of expenditure. Thus, the total level of expenditure of the state budget remains at the same level as originally foreseen in the amount of 147 billion kuna as regards the state budget. What is also important to say is the financial plans or corrections of financial plans for 10 extra-financial users. So, their original plan is, when we add them all together, there was an excess of around 725 million kuna, according to this new plan when we go one by one, we can, of course, also during the debate, analyse the more detailed financial plans of all these 10, so Croatian roads, Croatian waterways, DAB, CERRP, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, HZO, HAC, Highway Rijeka Zagreb, Croatian Railways Infrastructure and Croatian Railways Passenger transport, their new deficit for this year is 2.4 billion kuna. So also at their level significant correction. When we consolidate all this together, add local self-government, so all 576 units entering the general state and according to our national methodology, but mainly according to the ESA 2010 methodology that is comparable to all other EU Member States, we come to the fact that compared to the originally planned surplus for this year, surplus. For the first time, the surplus was planned, three years in a row and we achieved 630 million kuna that the deficit in the general government's budget is expected to amount to 24 billion 843 million kuna or 6.8% of GDP. So I will repeat once again, 4 years in a row absolutely under control and consolidated public finances, noting that... a few days or a few weeks ago EUROSTAT also published the last data for 2019 that we also achieved a surplus in the general government budget of nearly 25 billion kuna, so this year in view of the circumstances and all the elements that I have explained brings us back to the level of the significant deficit of I say almost 25 billion kuna. The component of this plan, i.e. rebalancing and amending and supplementing the financial plan, are amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the state budget closely linked to the financing account. The financing account so far and in some of my previous exhibitions if I were to present the budget, and I mean the good part and in the debates, it may not have been so much in focus, I think here I am now going to use these remaining few minutes to pay attention to it, and I believe that in replicas or debates a little greater emphasis will be placed on it. So a few figures on that side of the funding account are so what we say below the line, it leads to everything that among other things is the need to finance that year. We had an original funding account plan of 30.5 billion kuna which would mean the planned one again, a balanced budget and all the maturity of different types and instruments of our public debt, whether we were talking about long-term bonds, loans, whether we were talking about short-term, vault records as well as some other elements. This financing account, given the already mentioned deficit, but also some other elements that I will explain, is increasing by an additional 32.7 billion kuna and totaling 63 billion and 412 million kuna for this year. What I repeat, as I presented it at the government's session, and I will now say, if there is one good thing to be pointed out in these amendments and in addition to the state budget for this year, and that is the fact that we have already realised more than half of it. With the state budget being proposed, €35.6 billion has already been realised before the covid outbreak itself, you remember that on the domestic market we have issued the cheapest and longest in terms of the hand-holding bond on the domestic market. Three tranches totaling 15 billion kuna, with it being the shortest with a coupon, or with a turnover of 0.25%, the cheapest ever. And for the first time, we've issued a 20-year bond. We also had some other maturity in small arms. After the crisis itself and how it is between me and the legal obligation to report to the parent Committee on Finance and the state budget, and the HS in the meantime we have realised several transactions. On the one hand, with some of the largest commercial banks, we have made several bilateral arrangements totalling 6.1 billion kuna, an average maturity of about five years, on average about 1.3 to 1.5% of the annual interest. After that we also... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the bank to the bank, we'll explain everything later. Yeah, it's important we'll only do it later when you're replicating. After that, we also had the refinance of a large vault record that amounted to 7 billion and 800 million kuna last week, it was refinanced under conditions, meaning at an annual level of 0.06 so almost zero, and a few days ago we issued a bond on the domestic market of 1 billion 455 million euros per 7 years with an annual interest rate and a coupon of 0.75%. So it's kind of an integral part already done. What remains before us, so in this financing account is the continuation of our activities as on the domestic capital market, the projected activity and on the international capital market in terms of the issue of the euro bond because we cannot ignore the fact that in the middle of the 7th month, a billion dollars of international bonds, issued 10 years ago, as well as some other elements, are coming to us. We are also counting and the financing account provides for sources of funds from international financial institutions. All this time, we have been conducting an intensive dialogue with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank and some others, as well as of course with the EU. You know well that at the EU level under our presidency, unfortunately not as quickly as in our circumstances, but it is on certain instruments, so, among other things, if you have heard well about that programme, so-called. SURE English word krilatica or shortcut that practically replicates in translation this measure that we have put into office, which is helping to pay part of the salary or to preserve jobs for employees. It's all an integral part of this financing account, and that's what we predicted among other things. And only the last part of the funding bill do I know that there are a lot of MPs here who behave or have acted and are always connected to local self-government in the financing account we've predicted the resources of 2 billion kuna and 900 million kuna, what we've called a unambiguous loan for local and regional self-government units and what we pay off as we've already indicated ourselves when we've represented measures, depending on the possibilities of the funds we've come to, how the requirements arrive, how we process them so we transfer them. And it's also a very important part of HBOR. HBOR in these circumstances and all these measures that we have put into operation is an extremely important institution, mainly in that part concerning new credit liquid funds for entrepreneurs, so that these new programmes that have been put into operation, as well as the existing ones, as well as all the measures that HBOR has taken into account anyway, whether we are talking about moratorium and some reprogrammes of the existing, but, excuse me, mainly new commitments, in the amount of about 3 billion kuna we have foreseen in this financing account, so what we have mentioned in the circle of measures. Given the circumstances and the great challenge of preserving liquidity in the system, the idea is that the State budget is a central point because it is much simpler, not only to coordinate but also to approach, both domestic and international markets, however, from the level of the central state budget, and then disperse this liquidity in the manner in which it should be. Here, so, thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206149	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have 23 replicas. I'll only read it if someone may not be registered because a lot of you have been answering. So we go like this: Bulj, Grbin, Maras, Jovanovic, Grmoja, Glasovac, Čuraj, Zekanovic, Mišić, Žagar, Pernar, Perić, Panenić, Mrsić, Felak, Ante Babić, Lacković, Lalovac, Mrak-Taritaš, Dobrović, Strick, Bauk, Bilek, Šuker, Borić, Greece. Okay, there's a lot of it, here, I'll write it down, Shuker, Boric, Greek, so 26 we have it. We're on our way, please just hold on for a minute. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206150	Thank you very much. Minister, the downfall is economics, tourism. However, you forgot one very important thing, the World Bank warns us. The biggest downfall will be from our citizens sending money to their families. We know it's 6% of GDP and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies that have evicted our citizens. How much you.../incomprehensible/... that's 18 billion kuna a year, our people from abroad are sending to their families. How much do you expect there, and we need to know that Croatia is at risk to the World Bank, what do you expect and what you have done for those people who are in Ireland, Germany, who you have driven out of your policies, what have you done that they can at least apply to the Employment Office in Croatia? What are the measures for these people who have been filling this budget while you have boasted about the effects and growth of the economy, and in fact because of the bad policies are What do you expect from the evidence? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206151	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206152	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here are the previous circumstances when you've opened that topic in some way, potentiated the wording or are practically transfers from the abroad of our people who are working, are an integral part of it, and then I'm answering, and now I'm going to answer, they're part of the balance of payments, so something that's in the CNB's intelligence, which is very clear, very unequivocally, transparently, all the citizens see these figures and that you're also quoting. It is our responsibility, not to predict and plan and in some way to elaborate any details of the balance of payments, but to consider when planning. Because what you're saying, and if one of our people working outside is transferring funds to their family, to their neighbors, etc., those coins through different visions, either mostly consumption or whatever, they have, of course, an effect on the budget. It's all an integral part of our projections and projections that I've just elaborated, so they'll obviously have an effect on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206153	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206154	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It is clear that one of the sectors most affected by this crisis is touristic, and in particular small tenants are affected. I'll read you what's on the official website of the IRS. The tenants who applied for a postponement of the tax until 30.3.2020 for the obligation to arrive on 31.3.2020 granted the right to postpone the payment and the obligation until 30.6.2020 and will not be cancelled. Dear Minister, you and I both know that small tenants will not make the revenues planned for the 4th and 5th and most likely for the 6th month. Since the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given to the Tax Administration's pages that these obligations will not be written off, and that we are today, or we are discussing rebalancing, my question to you is whether these obligations will be written off or will be small renters have to pay after 30.6? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206155	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206156	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have made very clear and transparent, unequivocally all the criteria prescribed at the level of the Tax Administration, I thank you and for the replica, given that you have also potentiated and I am pleased to see in the media space that in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of praise at the expense of the Tax Administration and I will use this pay phone, too, because I think my colleagues in the Tax Administration have done a great deal, this has not been simple and all these measures that have been put into operation, the criteria, but even more important their implementation as such. As for private tenants, we've talked a lot about this in the form of previous circles of tax reform, I think we can conclude that we have concluded other than those excluded from paying certain tax obligations or zero rates anywhere, that this is the least taxable segment of the general tax system and of course we will not ignore it as such, but given all the circumstances, is, when we talk about the average amount per bed of 300 kuna per year, in fact in some way It also reveals what we're talking about, but anyway, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as it is very clear, the criteria are prescribed and defined [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] And the IRS does it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206157	Now let's go to the request for a break from colleagues of Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206158	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking on behalf of the Bridge Club for a 10-minute break on the rebalancing proposal. Like I said, colleagues and colleagues, this rebalance, i.e. This crisis exposed all the policies of the bad that were towards the Croatian people. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. As I said in the replica, 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna is from our evicted people. Agriculture was destroyed, when we were giving the most subsidies, you were talking to the ministers about self-sufficiency, when I was talking about self-sufficiency and proposing laws, amendments and saying that we had to encourage domestic production, not foreign GMO products, that's when they told me they were my ticks. Tourism, absolutely forbidden everything, will fail tourism. The only thing that won't fail is the election, and even those who are self-insulated ministers will be able to go to the polls, and our caterers are in quarantine. They're all, so it just doesn't work. And these evicted people of ours were the first to lose their jobs, that's the youth you've sent out to bad policies. I'm not happy with your answer. What are you offering these people who left Slavonia because of the bad policies that went out of my Dalmatian burn? The only thing you're saying about local self-government is that you're positive. You can see in Split-Dalmatia County which is a creation. A creature that functions like a mob. They destroyed my Zagora, 100,000 people have left since they led Sanader and Boban and so on. Take some action. Let's stop the county, and local self-government will be able to function, so the viruses won't enter where they don't smell, and we'll be able to go to the elections of those who are in isolation. This is a shameful demonstration of the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206159	Thank you, fellow Bull. I approve of the break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 11 and 40. It's 11:00.31. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] First in line, or third in all, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206161	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. My question is simple, I saw in the budget rebalancing that the amount intended to restore damage in the city of Zagreb is below 100 million kuna. What I'm interested in, that's 400 times less, so 400 is less than the estimated damage in the city of Zagreb. So I'm curious whether you as a man living in Zagreb, are you a member of the HDZ who supports M. Bandic in the City Assembly, you think it's okay to go to elections without the passed Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb and that it's okay not to stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb and tell them that the state is behind them? So I think it's a shame that after 45 days, so now almost 50 days in the city of Zagreb, the city looks like a ruin and that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the current city government treats us this way. I must tell you that I am sincerely not only angry but also sad, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206162	Thank you very much, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206163	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have seen well in the budget rebalancing is secured at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering of an additional 100 million kuna, to add to that the amount already standing at the level of 41 million kuna to the Environmental Protection Fund as regards subsidising the part of the price price of those so-called. condensation boilers, therefore, we are talking about the amounts foreseen for interventions in this rebalancing process, which will allow, in the short term, and should enable, of course, the return of citizens whose homes are damaged due to earthquakes, but also what you will hear in two days at the cabinet session and all of our follow-up that, among other things, in a horizon of such a single comprehensive law and result in the resulting because not a single budget is called such a project or damage or all together for a year, this is a multi-annual issue in which it should be approached very systematically and in one appropriate way to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206164	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206165	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my question concerns health care. Since health care is concerned, I cannot begin by not congratulating all nurses and technicians of the International Sisterhood Day and thanking for the tremendous efforts that make them maintain a health care system in a state that can meet the needs of Croatian citizens. There are over 41,000 registered nurses in Croatia, of which nearly 35,000 work in the health system, which is 45% of the health care system. I'm afraid you haven't taken the health problem seriously enough because the debts are certainly close to 5 billion kuna, I don't see how you're going to solve that debt, and all that's waiting for us in the next period is just an increase in the health care system. Also, you have unseriously approached the additional insurance problem because it was necessary to provide additional funds for 200,000 insurance companies that would be free of charge of the supplementary insurance policy, which is 160 million since the beginning of this year, there is no such thing as a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206166	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206167	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's how long I'm going to be able to answer your line, but since there are more doctors in the assembly, I'm going to believe these replicas on the health issue. 8.5 billion is the situation at the end of last year's total debt in the health system when all of the total is summed up to 3 billion and 800 million kuna. The trend in growth is continued and this year, I have to say we have data in the third month, we don't have local data yet, but as far as HZZO is concerned, and especially as far as so-called. Colloquium-named state hospitals can conclude that this debt is continued. What I was saying at the outset, so we focused on the area and the health issue before the rebalancing of the whole series of redistributions within the legal possibilities. In particular, what was at that moment was the most important insurance of respirators, protective masks, etc. And we'll continue in that direction. However, the financing of this figure overall exceeds the problem of Covid himself and one rebalancing, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206168	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206169	Thank you. Dear Minister, as far as this rebalancing and its indicators are concerned, we understand everything. The elections are at the door, so budget spending is expressed by total expenditures not reduced by a single kuna. On the other hand, it envisions a huge drop in budget revenues, some 23 billion kuna, which would be a 16% drop. So it's clear that this isn't a real budget rebalance that this is a fake, so this is a fake budget rebalance and we're going to have a real budget rebalance after the election. And I ask you, how do you think Croatian citizens will feel about the situation in Croatia in the 9th, 10th month, and how do they see it now? Will he be more optimistic at the 9th and 10th months or are they more optimistic now? Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206170	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206171	Thank you very much. Well, I got a lot of labels in the Croatian Parliament, the most impressive one was an accountant or an accountant, so I denied it, and I'm definitely not a sociologist and psychologist who can assess the state of the nation either today or in a few months. It is our role and the tasks of all together to make this psychological element improve, improve and in the given circumstances in fact all we can give that, as well as such challenging situations and their negative effects minimise as much as possible. As far as rebalancing is concerned, I will repeat once again, the budget's expenditure side, despite the needs of 7 and a few billion kuna for higher expenditures, remains unchanged. It is a great, great effort that we have managed to do in just a few weeks to keep this spending side at the same level and not to create additional pressure on taxpayers or additional pressure on public debt. But the fact is 23.2 billion Kuna is less in the revenue of the budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206172	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are a parent, you have children, and you are likely to know that in the last month and a half the only person who maintains the system of education in life are teachers, teachers and parents. No. The Ministry of Science and Education there is a complete breakdown of the system. Can you please answer the question why did you decide to reward this teacher and teacher by taking everything from them through the budget rebalancing? So, not only the basis for 4%, like all public and state officials, but also the Santa Claus and the regression and the jubilee and all the accessories they fought for for two months on strike. Was it really necessary to take them absolutely, absolutely everything and bring them literally to the beggar stick?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206175	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so of course I cannot agree with your findings primarily with qualifications, we are still in charge of dialogue and our offer is on the table. At the same time, the conversation continues, and at this point, I wouldn't prejudge anything. I join as with previous commendation and congratulations to all medical staff as well as to our teachers and who maintain also well apostrophe with the help of parents mainly for teaching, for children in the teaching of lower classes education system as such. I will repeat once again, so when there was a topic and a strike with an increase in the base of 1.1% and 3%, respectively, for the system of education 3% that came into force at the end of last year, total salaries for more than 20% of the government's mandate. So what we're talking about and what's kind of on the table as an offer, you well know that we've been very clear on the strike, for a certain part of these increases the funds weren't originally as intended, nor originally But again, 20 percent increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206176	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206177	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers in your speech and projections, of course, predicting the decline of GDP here we have predicted of 9.4 we have heard that the commission is slightly more beneficial to our economy and predicts a smaller decline, which is good, which I can say that this rebalancing does not predict a reduction in state spending or budget itself, and we know that the share of GDP is 20%. What is not good, which states that the assumption of exporting services is a 70% drop, and if our tourism drops 50%, that's 10% of GDP, so that's it, total tourism if it falls by 50%, that's a 10% reduction in GDP. So, according to this, we expect GDP growth in the last quarter. And I'm interested in what about the European Course Mechanism, or what about the introduction of the EUR, given this debt that goes beyond 86% of GDP, what are we going to do about it? Because I'm not the Kunophyl that I prefer the kuna to my own citizens, and I think that the EUR would help and help its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206178	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206179	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative last week at the government meeting met the last of 19 measures that we took almost a year ago in that letter of intent to enter the exchange rate mechanism II, so the last of 19 and now we will also write a new memo where we will inform the European institutions about this. As for the Master criteria you are alluding to, or the specific question of public debt, so I'm going to go over it one more time and say it. So 60% is that limit, as far as it's going to be tomorrow and what's going to happen I wouldn't be going into it right now at this point of debate, but if you're above 60% of the drop, there has to be a minimum 1/20th difference between the current level and that 60%. Croatia has reduced public debt four times faster over the past four years than those provisions say. So we met the criteria. This effect, which is ultimately how we now see it one-time on public debt growth to 86.7, should not distract us from this further path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206180	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206181	Dear Minister. I would like you to tell us, to the Croatian public, how much will we get in this next period, the grant money from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206182	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206183	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, out of the current envelope a good part of the funds, and there are also great efforts made by the cabinet and individual colleagues of ministers, mainly Pavić and Aladrović, where we have made redistribution and re-location out of the existing envelopes that have been allotted for certain purposes to what is most important at the moment, and yet I repeat this horizontal measure of paying part of the salaries or preserving jobs to the economy. You also know well that behind our chairmanship dialogue or negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework are under way, when and how they will be completed, we will see more. We, of course, did and did everything to make it our presidency, the covid had its own kind of effect and effect. Of course, we are talking about grants or aid schemes, but parallel to that, at EU level, they are either put into office and some additional schemes concerning credit arrangements that we will also take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206184	Comrade Misic, please welcome your request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206185	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I asked you an extremely simple question, you didn't answer me. I asked how many, you didn't answer me and I now, this is my time let me ask you a question now, and I'll actually give you an answer because it says in the rebalancing, and that's the number you didn't tell me. I'll read what's written in the rebalancing, so when we talk about revenues, there's a 623 item of assistance from abroad, about a gift from entities within the general budget. That item says that in the next period or after the rebalancing period, we will be planning to get 500 million kuna, namely 502 million kuna less money than we originally thought with the budget we adopted at the end of last year. So 500 million kunas less. For Croatians and Croats who follow this session, let them know, 18 billion 756 million kuna were planned, and there will be 18 billion 253 million kuna. So, I've pointed out more than once, and this time I'm going to say, European solidarity is gone, we're not going to get any lip from the EU, and you said yourself we didn't get, that there's something else being negotiated, and you've been rebalanced the budget for less money. So, the European project fell on the first test, on the first step, on the first obstacle, meaning solidarity was neither there nor there, and this is one empirical evidence that you did not want to comment on or that you did not want to tell the Croatian public loudly and clearly. When it is most difficult for us, rather than for the EU in which the Croatian Government has sworn to help us, and we find it most difficult because we are a tourist country, almost exclusively a tourist country, the EU is taking our money, or you are planning less money with the rebalancing process than we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206186	Okay, the break will be approved. We'll continue at 12.05, first in line, fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206187	We continue, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Misic Ivica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206188	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I see the state is in trouble with the finances but I am pleased when you opened the highway now in Slavonia. I personally think you run good finances but I must say that today's rail traffic is 15% higher compared to earlier, so I ask you if you are in rebalancing, I see that you are not, but will you predict that the railway from Zagreb to Vinkovac is being made? Why? Because we see the highway itself feeding all the highways of Slavonia towards Serbia, all the highways of our food, so the Vinkovci railway, once through the railway station, went through 450 trains in 24 hours and now it's increasing, so Europe should think about it, now more trains go with freight traffic and that's what I want to say to Slavonia and think about it, and I think now it's time to do the same thing as you did on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206189	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206190	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, you've been well apostrophe and in some way and a trace of this thinking of yours is in line with what we're talking about and in these circumstances that I've been talking about many times and speaking and replicating, and on the fall of income and on the fall of economic activity and so on, there's one part that we can't ignore, and it's investment activity and the state needs to make a contribution, I say again in accordance with the possibilities and the overall framework. We have also seen before the rebalancing and in the past days and with colleagues from the Croatian roads, highways, from HZ, of course, the resolute Minister of Col. Butković, which is also how to maintain these plans that are originally envisaged, with which to go further, but in any case, always that emphasis on public investments, mainly those that we can finance and co-finance through European funds, so European aid through cheap sources of funding to continue as such, so that on this trail, if something is not foreseen in this budget and rebalancing, it is certainly intended to be in perspective as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206191	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206192	Thank you. Dear Minister, we could say that this budget is short-sighted and short-sighted. Why is that? I read it from your words. You said that, and it's financially correct, that you've been overstretched to maintain your expenditures at the given values, at initial values, and there's practically no regrets because it wasn't easy to fill those redistributions. But it's quite clear that this isn't the last budget rebalancing this year, that there will be more, so I'm saying it's short breath. And why is he shortsighted? You repeated this and when the budget was made, you repeated the same thing, which is a key thing for the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy in general. When industrial production and exports fall, we paradoxically fall and import. And that is the key in the structure of Croatia's GDP, and that is why I miss this political message in this budget that, which is reform, what things we intend to do to change this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206193	Thank you, answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206194	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this import addiction, we have talked about it personally and here in the Assembly a lot, and I think now it is also getting some additional, additional importance, and I would say with more knowledge very clearly, very unequivocal, fact-finding, which is that these circumstances imply, in some way, the strengthening of and domestic components of self-sufficiency and ensuring self-sufficiency throughout a series of segments of food and agricultural production, industry, here in this particular case, pharmaceutical or chemical industry, there is, of course, a question of energy and energy sufficientness, unfortunately, we still haven't found any more significant oil supplies in our area, so we are a net importer of certain categories, but again reduce that import dependence, to reduce some kind of dependence on some global flows that you can't influence, it's some idea that we see in this crisis. If I say one rebalancing or one budget can recognize or not, but it's one of the key reforms that we all need to do together, it's not just a matter of state and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206195	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206196	Dear Minister Maric. The educators lost their raises, and you lied to them, and you told them we'd raise your wages, and now you've changed your mind that you wouldn't, and then you're putting the guilt of God on the crown. But Mr. Maric, you're the ones who banned the work, you're the ones who pushed people into quarantine and isolation, you're the ones who banned tourists from coming. And please explain to me, you are a very smart man, those who drive tourist buses, for example. So the carriers, who took these buses on the lease they're banned, the tourists are banned from entering the country, let's explain as a smart man from what they're going to pay the lysing wars that are still coming at their checkout? You don't care about these people at all, and you don't care about Croatia. They shed crocodile tears for the Croatian people, but these are not unfortunately tears but tears of joy when you devour them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206197	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206198	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. A lot of things you kind of said, it's hard to answer at all in one minute. I haven't lied to anyone, either to teachers or union leaders with whom we conducted negotiations last year for this year. I will repeat again as I did just before, and the honourable representative answered, during this term, we have been conducting a constructive dialogue since the first day of the day, each time resulting in some sort of step. ... No, it wasn't just at the end, but whatever it is, I'll never change your interpretation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Each year resulted in an increase in wages and further perspectives and a further look forward. We want and have always recognized the hard work of all civil and public service employees, those you too knew very often in your public appearances to call ugly names. For us, they are very correct and very good employees who deserve more wages than everyone in the economy, but all in line with the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206199	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206200	I'd like to say he insulted me and all the public sector employees when he said I called them ugly names. That's not true, Mr. Maric, I'm against austerity measures and you know why I'm against austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206201	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206202	Chairman. My colleague Pernar injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not refer to the Rules of Procedure and did not speak about it but literally replicated it, so I believe he deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206203	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, okay. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. We are witnesses of the rate of fees or salaries paid to entrepreneurs or employees, which is more than 480,000 employees who received a record period of work compensation or support provided by the Government and were over a billion kuna from those redistributions. We are here now to further ensure both subsidies and household benefits, etc. Another 4.9 billion kuna is actually ensuring stability both for entrepreneurs and for the safety of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206205	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206206	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here you are, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, follow every item and each figure of the account, and let's call it the liquid part, in particular. And you know well yourself as a longtime financier that it's not easy to secure all these funds in a short time, but of course we're not looking for any laurels here right now, and I don't know what merits, but the fact is that we did and it was our intention from the very beginning to design these measures as quickly as possible and it was clear our intensity and when we first came to HS and when we had the debate the clubs supported our efforts and we're grateful for that. But I'm saying, it was even more important to go as soon as possible into that implementation and that's what we did. I said we secured liquidity for payments that started or started in the 5th month for the 4th month, and we'll do that for next month's payments in June for May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206207	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206208	Dear Minister. Presenting the draft budget that you are today and changing, you said that it was developed and the view of the government was that it was developed and it was in the conditions of normal functioning of the economy. Now we have a crisis situation in the economy where needs are significantly higher, and we have remained at the same level, so this particular finding... we have preserved the expenditures that were, and now that we need to strengthen, now that the needs are much greater, strengthen. It is not just the structure of the state budget as such that it flows from the state register it goes to all the needs it has and logically would be expected now that the needs are greater if the state that stands behind the budget, behind the revenue side, to further increase its investment, its consumption, its investment, to ensure the rapid return of the economy to the one we expect in future time based on what was so far. So here I think there's still a move to make from the current holding state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206209	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206210	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that's what I've been trying to do in my opening part, actually, and I'm going to elaborate again, so I'm going to say, so the need to increase and grow on the dissipated side of the budget over 7 billion kuna, we've compensated with savings from other items. These savings have not been permanently saved by some of them, permanently eliminated, any delays in certain projects, acquisitions etc., any real savings, Croatia presides over the EU Council, but numerous meetings that should have been planned to take place in Zagreb and throughout Beautiful Ours will not happen or happen because of objective circumstances. So a whole series, and I'd say, of all these things that eventually have to turn into one picture of the budget. But the budget as such is the answer to all these circumstances because on the one hand it ensures the implementation of these measures that we have put into operation, but also, of course, it must look at what will happen after that and just before I answered the question of investments, whether the budget, whether the extra budget users, were all expensive, on this trail we must continue, because how important it is that Croatia fall this year, the first year of the crisis, is so, I would say even more important bids With past experience, how soon we'll be back. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206211	The next replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206212	Dear Minister. You've dropped all of the 6.4 billion kunas for support, or part of it is, you're going to, but somewhere there's a figure of about 6.5 billion. Part of this is EU funds, and you know it's all support and it's about support, and you've given it to companies that pay dividends. Are you ready to announce all the companies that paid dividends and got support? Who will control the correctness of this because the State Inspectorate can't do it because he doesn't have the authority, and only an HZZ that doesn't have people. And on the other hand, do you think about, given that you gave tens of millions of kunas to large companies, to enter the state into the property of these companies and to do what Germany did that would get into one big... A very clear question to which I want very clear answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206213	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206214	So clear always the answer you're looking for, of course that's your legitimate right, I can say that we've been thinking about all these things and the details, we've talked about so far, what we've done would be an idea to put the criteria into operation so that they can go ahead and implement these measures as soon as possible. We have all said from the beginning that it will be publicly and transparently known, so so this list, HZZ, was published a few days ago, weeks ago, so we all have an insight from the first to the last one that received both the amount of support and the number of employees. As regards the control itself, whether someone has abused, or whether certain irregularities have been identified, and the HZZ, as you have well said, as a concession provider or such a type, not concessions, pardons but support, is obliged to control, but also other institutions, of course we pair certain data between HZZ, IRS, etc., and of course the institutions will act in accordance with their powers and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206215	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206216	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So I take this opportunity first of all, to commend the government's work and to bring all these measures worth nearly 7 billion kunas that helped the Croatian economy survive this era of the crown and to preserve jobs, not to see those ominous forecasts come true of 400 thousand unemployed. Thank God, this has not happened or will happen, but my question is going towards a further follow-up of projects that have been launched primarily, major infrastructure projects in rail transport and road construction, a concrete project of construction of railways from the Križovci through Koprivnica to the Hungarian border. Also, fast roads from the Križevci towards Koprivnica, whether these projects will continue at a pace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206217	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206218	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The answer is yes, it will continue. The dynamics of course, depending on the overall possibilities, the financial plans relating to individual extra-financial users or state-owned enterprises that are the ones that are taking these types of investments, we tried to fit into these things that you are talking about, which is to continue investment flows, but again I say, and in accordance with certain and certain possibilities. We have worked on this, and we will continue to work, as I have answered earlier, and my colleague Misic on his question about the direction towards Slavonia and Vinkovci, also, Koprivnica-križevci, any part of Croatia, we all know very well what the effects, multiplicative and others are, public investments, of course, more so if they can be further co-financed by EU grants, so that's all we care about, but again, we have to put ourselves in the frame of all our options, and then they will, among other things, dictate that dynamic you asked me about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206219	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the budget rebalancing and implementation of the State budget have been enabled to redistribute funds within the State budget itself, but also in charge, both domestic and international markets. So, given our foreign exchange reserves, what is the role of the CNB in this case in such a debt and is it really considering using these foreign reserve assets that actually serve to maintain liquidity in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206221	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206222	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what's important and what's kind of a good thing about this crisis is that we've practically been at the table since the first day and brought in and we have the CNB, so their rope leadership, i.e. all the professional services and a few things we've done together, is, in particular, a very important topic about these assets and the source of liquidity, craftsmanship for entrepreneurs and all those affected by the coronary crisis. But also, ensuring liquidity for the whole state's functioning, I think we're all well aware and all in one way, I'd say a little harder way, to see, that is, the importance and role of the state and all its services, the police, the fire department, the health care and that I'm not counting on it now. And it is certainly important that this liquidity be provided in an adequate manner because the CNB is an independent regulator and it, in accordance with its and the legal powers that the Croatian Parliament has given, is acting, however, I think all of these activities that we have done in terms of funding are seen to be, among other things, an integral part of all of our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206223	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206224	Thank you, Vice President. So, Minister, one question. Whether measures to support the economy for the 6th, 7th and 8th months are envisaged in the budget rebalancing or, on the 9th, 10th, the crown will return. Is that somewhere? And the teaching question, therefore, since the expenditure side has remained fully the same 147 billion kuna, since we have no projections for 2021, we can't know in any way how you're going to dig any further holes, and in that part, this budget rebalancing proposal would be incomplete already in the 6th month. What's my question, if you've been redistributing some of the money, so you've taken the Central State Sport Office for sport buildings of 16 million, for local sports and Croatian... 14 million, will you have more to take from anyone or will you go to equalising the VAT rate or raising the VAT as it has been in previous crises? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206225	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206226	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You asked a lot of things, how much do I get, so, as we said at the outset, still representing measures, we had to underline somewhere in time, so as to support measures for the economy, we're talking about measures for March, April and May with payments in the coming months, that's what the budget provides for, as well as measures in the tax section, where we also said, three months with a possible possibility of extension for an additional 3, depending on how the situation is going to be, as such, developing. As for the effects and looks ahead, that in the convergence program is the view of next year. As a rule, we brought the Convergence Programme for a three-year period, this time we agreed at EU level to watch this year and next year and it is very clear, so after the drop of 9.4% this year, we predict a growth of about 6.1%. However, the EU Commission is also more optimistic than we are, even 7.5, and as far as budget deficits are concerned with these 6.8% this year, the next year is 2.4% of GDP. As for VAT and tax policy, we will always talk about it and think about it. No additional tax changes are provided for at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206227	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in the rebalancing regarding additional HBOR funds, so can you please just some number of how currently HBOR has approved funds along with business banks to business entities because we see that HAMAG BICRO is actually, we're reading from the media that in fact all of these funds for coronaryvirus, means for the lending program, that more than 5 thousand requests, are 10% that they've just been processed. We see that this line is already closed and other lines, so here's the clean information maybe around HBOR because you mentioned there would be additional funds, as currently the situation with these funds towards entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206229	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206230	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, on a daily basis I get updated data by 11.5, not only HBOR because through the FINA system, perhaps here, pure information and for you, as we have formed and established this entire system that each interested in liquid assets appears on the FINA web interface, FINA is this unique place where it is, among other things, working and then calculating that so-called FINA. COVID score and afterwards is directed to each commercial bank, i.e. HBOR is the one that will provide that 50% of the funds. To, so yesterday, 8 300 is the calculation of COVID score, the number of applications totaling 15 180, companies are mostly looking for liquidity loans, but also for delays, so the moratories of those credit obligations. Also, all that data and all that, of course, everything in accordance with the legal obligations we will now be doing, clearly and transparently publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206231	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206232	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. We all know that this rebalancing that we're going to discuss today is actually a form, the real rebalancing will come in the fall, when we see real frames and real problems. But what I'm always interested in, and I'm a couple of times, and I've asked you a question about the day after. So, I suppose there are certain arrangements at EU finance ministers' level, I think there are other talks, which means the Green Plan, which means economic development, which means the activities that we will be doing the day after, that Croatia is preparing for some new normality as part of other EU countries. I think that, among other things, with this rebalance and the one that will be in the fall, it is important to stress that we see in which direction we are going, what reforms, which are possibly economic elements, and how much more is the Green Plan that Europe has announced so much. I personally thought it was extremely good and praised, as much as he looked at all, whether he was in some stages and how Croatia would stand up to that Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206233	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206234	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the lesson and just now that my colleague Zekanovic, the esteemed representative, has also opened as a topic, you are now refering to it. So at EU level the focus is on one side, as in our case, so what we can do in the short term in these circumstances, and among other things, we are talking about revising that European Stabilisation Mechanism, and we are talking about this so-called "Stabilisation Mechanism". SURE employee support program, but just like us, we're focused pretty much on exactly what you said, the day after. So look ahead and after this. And that's why he's so-called. Recovery Fund or Recovery Fund, something to start talking about and talking about. I have said it several times, yet it is 27 member states and we cannot expect the speed of designing and implementing the measures to be as fast as we do, but this is among other things something that is parallel to the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which, here is now co-cidating with COVID, but actually represents the future 7 years, i.e. the next 7-year financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206235	Next replica, distinguished representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206236	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have noticed one interestingness in this budget, although practically in the same portfolio, two extra-profit users of the state budget of Croatia and the Environmental Protection Fund, practically have a diametrically opposite financial situation. One of them is in debt for 700 million kuna, and the other have surpluses of over a billion kuna that are transferred from year to year. Of course, this individual approach, therefore, to its problems with banks, benefits exclusively from banks. And secondly, I have compared that clientelism as a definition of decision-making for the allocation of funds is very present, i.e. You mentioned 41 million for condensation boilers, for example in the Environmental Protection Fund. So whoever knows the energy and solves the heat system today wouldn't be able to separate that kind of state money for something that's only 5 to 10 times better and the whole import equipment is, so that money is could be in the function of developing the economy through solutions for which we have domestic producers, unfortunately not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206237	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206238	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I know that, in general, you know, when you have acted as a minister as important, important financial plans and the budget of extra- budget users, I know that in general and when we are talking in the Assembly, a very small percentage of the replica and the debate comes down to them, I think that they are important from the perspective of public finances but even more from the perspective of their contribution to economic activity and what we are trying to do all the time and as much as possible to push towards the fact that this investment activity is the one that creates economic value, which gives added value, so now when we speak and analyze each of them individually, but mainly when we look at all together and surely their financial plans should maintain the naturally limited possibilities we are now facing, there were just a few questions about road and rail infrastructure, but also as regards energy recovery, protection from some floods etc., etc. These are all things that should be foreseen in the financial plans as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206239	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206240	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Well, none of the governments in the 2020 budget accounted for an epidemic of the coronary virus, let alone the consequences of this epidemic. The current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I think, is perfectly dealing with all these challenges, all the statistics are talking about, and when we talk about the rebalancing of this budget, it is important to stress that it does not stop with investment because investment means jobs. When we talk about the area of Varazdin County, it has been built since 2002. Trying to build an OS St. Elijah. Since then, six governments have changed and only in the term of office has this one started to build and I hope that in the next two years it will be built, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206241	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206242	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's your replica, too. Well, here's to teaching and the previous ones involved, I repeat rail, road infrastructure, environmental protection infrastructure, water and, of course, the education system. We're here, what you said and you noticed at last week's and the government's meeting on the school in St. Iliji but also some other schools I would say, even in the media space, the public space already knows, can also list the school of N. Andric in Vukovar, the crafts school in Sisak, Donji Miholjac, Krapina, Split, Children's center in Zadar, is located in Sl. Schools for children with special needs, M. Ambruš, i.e. with developmental difficulties, M. Stojanović in Babina Greda as well as in Čakovec, so all these schools are listed in one conclusion of the Government that, among other things, depending on the different dynamics and implementation of certain measures whether the collection of documentation, procurement, competition and so on, the realization that the Government is behind these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206243	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's a very difficult situation, and I believe it's been a very hard job to prepare a rebalance for which we've all been a little bit and we've been afraid it's going to look, but given the government's decision to support both the economy and our citizens, I think we've done a pretty solid job, and I'm just interested, there's a certain reduction means redistribution because there's no, meaning spending cuts, there are certain obligations that have been made by signing contracts with institutions, associations, economics, etc., so I'm wondering if these contracts will be fulfilled by the basis of those rules as they're signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206245	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206246	And under the most difficult circumstances as these are, of course, the rule of law as such must be, and so certain obligations that have been made, should be discussed and negotiated and taken into account and new circumstances but also, at least our position as Government and we have shown this in several cases, not only to go without such a kind of dialogue. So, in the given circumstances as you know, I will repeat once again, practically 1/5 of the revenue has been cut out from the state budget itself, so 23.2 billion kuna for this year that we are not going to collect, then, of course, some other items on the expenditure side must be audited, but we are always ready for dialogue, for discussion, for constructive approach, if something cannot be realised within the shortest possible time, of course, there is some dynamic component that we then take into account and so on what you refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206247	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your opening work, you mentioned extracurricular users. So their original incomes have been reduced by 11% compared to the plan, but there has been a decrease in costs at an opportunity of 4%. Also, a very important segment in the rebalancing of this budget is the unambiguous assets that will be given in terms of loans to local self-government units, why am I saying this? Because, as is predicted to reduce the income of extra budget users, there will also be a reduction in the incomes of local self-government units not only from income tax, but also from the basis of municipal compensation, and these are the two highest income units of local self-government and what, with all the good that the government has done with these measures to preserve jobs and all the expensive, what must not happen to us in the future, that what I say, in a certain way, under the government's cap, it becomes an indifference generator because, if that happens to us, then we are in great danger. So now, given these indicators, we have an opportunity to act preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206249	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206250	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're right because that's exactly what one of our basic intentions of all these measures was to focus on preserving jobs and paying salaries, preserving liquidity systems. Not only are countries such as those in some narrow or narrowest circle or sense, but also much wider, the state is big, the state has very much of its own in some way dealings with different segments, not just economies and societies and states, which should make it easier for others to have their liquid problems, and not in some way even make them impossible and difficult. So what I was saying at the outset, when I spoke to the speaker about the financing account, that our intention from the beginning was that all of these financing needs were, as far as possible, centralized, not because of some discretionary decision, but rather because of a simpler way, not that now 576 units are going on the capital market and financial markets in search of liquidity. It's much simpler that we at the central level and then these estimated 2 billion and 900, as we have now placed in the financing account in an adequate way according to the criteria that we have established, disperse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206251	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206252	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, congratulations to you and the Ministry of Finance, the entire government on everything you do to keep public finances on one level that is promising. What interests me is the tax on accommodation units, the flat tax that was already in question today. Since I come from local self-government, and we have almost 110 thousand small tenants on the coast and they certainly expect this tourist season, and every expenditure is important to them. So I ask, given some of the possibilities that exist, which is your next move. Whether we're going to have at least a partial write-off, a full write-off, means all the debts we have for this year, given the season it's going to be, or maybe you'll give local self-government a chance to make some different decisions in the course of the year, given that you've brought that power down to them through tax changes, which may also be one of the solutions. But, of course, we'll see what happens during the season, but at least some hope to see what happens on that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206253	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206254	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, teaching what my colleague Grbin had just asked, I didn't have time to answer everything, but therefore, and it's well quoted from the Tax Administration website, so we didn't ignore that segment either, so private renters, given the circumstances and given the forecasts regarding the tourist season, surely one part that will, and of course, have effects. At the same time, as I said earlier, so it's in terms of tax, sort of a burden, among the lowest, if not the lowest tax segment as such, but of course, we mustn't ignore it. So, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, as this system is formed, it is paid quarterlyly, as regards liabilities in the second quarter, it is practically, the release has already been done as such, it writes very clearly also in those criteria that we have defined and prescribed and which stand on the tax administration's website. For more and more, as so far, as far as local self-government is concerned, we are very often open to this topic, ready and open to discussions, depending on the development of the situation, you know, when we started with this additional fiscal decentralisation, that we knew and extended certain deadlines for city and municipal councils to make such decisions. So, about that we're always ready to sit at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206255	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today you have unfortunately avoided answering many direct questions. I'll just remind you. So how many state institutions, HBOR and HAMAG have granted loans so far, not how many applications, but how many have they approved? The second question is, why didn't you ban the payment of profits to companies that used support to preserve jobs? My colleague Miranda is the question. Why didn't you let the big companies that took large amounts through this support, get the state into co-ownership of these companies. Half%, 1%, 3%, but for the record. Why did you say that support here is compensated by investment costs, more or less, and even from EU funds. Therefore, investment, wage cuts and the rest which has a very negative impact on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206257	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206258	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I also expected your particular replica or question, not the sublimation of all the previous ones. I will submit everything to my colleagues by the end of the debate, as well as to everyone, as regards the specific figures of HBOR and HAMAG, I simply cannot have all the data available at all times. I gave that report I get every morning, and that's about those demands. As approved, as regards HBOR, as regards commercial banks, they will also communicate clearly. Why we didn't or did something, so here, let me, of course, we can always elaborate, but it's ours, I won't say right, but also the obligation to look at broader aspects, so I didn't rule out those proposals or what Mrsic said as some kind of thesis from our further talks. I said that we have established certain criteria that are quite simple and quite passing, but I have not eliminated the possibility of these criteria being corrected, i.e. to be as such, possibly even sharpened, depending on what the first find will show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206259	Thank you. Now we've exhausted these first replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206260	Very specific, but here, I wanted to set it up now because I knew I'd discuss it after this replica. So, the key question in this rebalancing which is definitely barbaric at 15. 6, so this is the rebalancing first in a series that will happen this year and he de facto is now recording one situation where we are at the moment but is not giving answers to what will be behind 15. Six. Why are we talking about 15? Six? Because 15. 6. the key measure expires and de facto in the budget the most important and financially and in any other way and relates to the preservation of jobs. Therefore, a measure of 6.8 billion kuna, with the exemption from the payment of contributions to all those companies that had losses above 50% of their income. And we still don't have the answer, so that's my key question, which is going to be from those 500 jobs behind 15. Six? Where is the decision to extend the measure for the next 3 months, where is the money to be financed in this budget? It's not there, it's not in there. That's the key questions, people. So, I'd like these defensive forecasts of some analysts that there will be 400,000 unemployed at the end of the year, I think it's an exaggeration. But I also think that at this point, as much as 170,000 people without a job and that very easily of these 500 000, at least, those who are directly and indirectly connected to tourism, could really be out of a job. The estimates are in tourism that income will be somewhere at 25, up to 30% of what we achieved last year. We just said 11% in gross added value directly and at least another 10% is the indirect impact of tourism, so you count now. So you have to protect these people, so these people need to know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. And even if there's trouble, and if they really finish one piece, let's say a hundred thousand people, which is very likely of these 500, end up at the employment office, you there have to secure money, new money for unemployment benefits. And I didn't see that money either, so I rightly claim that this rebalancing is absolutely temporary, very improvised in all of its elements and that it covers only the state until the end of June of this year. So, it just goes into the electoral phase, in a way it wants to cover up the details and these important things, I would say which here I am trying to point out to the Croatian public today. There's one more thing I want to say. All the countries in our environment, apart from the measures for the economy, had measures for the citizens, the SDP in time identified it, put together a package, the package was weighing 2 billion kuna, you did not appreciate it, unfortunately, I will only tell you what the Slovenian neighbours did. They gave the pensioners between 130 and 300 euros depending on the amount of pension, giving self-employed a monthly income of 700 euros, 700 euros, for all those who lost their trade or interest due to the crisis. Are farmers and fishermen also treated by self-employed also the basic income of 700 euros? even gave students in Slovenia 150 euros per student. Why? Because only consumption and demand in the short term can retain such economic activity and prevent this fall from happening to us. Imagine, people have invested more and have a lower GDP drop, so they have a bigger deficit but they have a lower GDP decline and we have a smaller deficit and we have a bigger GDP decline. It's a fundamental economic logic in situations like this. Why is it that the Croatian government has been boasting all the time that it's taken care of finances, that it's a much better situation at the moment, that the prime minister is always talking about it, that it's a much better situation than it was 10 years ago or 12, 2008, and that it's all great, but we haven't taken advantage of our fiscal stimulant, or so on. The fiscal basis as they call it there at the IMF is 1.7%, unlike Slovenians whose fiscal stimulant, so I'm only talking about the budget, only what goes through the budget, not through HBOR, not through HAMAG, not through the banking system, not liquidity, only fiscal stimulant, 6.5% and about 3.5 billion euros, respectively, were poured through these support. You can laugh and I will bring you, here during the debate I will bring you a copy of the measures of the Slovenian government that speaks of the 6.5% support, our colleague, my colleague and your colleague and a friend might say, Velimir Shonje wrote about it, read a little of his contribution, I believe that you appreciate Shonja as well as I appreciate it, so from his article I pulled this data on a limited fiscal stimuli related directly to the budget. Croatia 1.7%, Slovenia 6.5%. And there's no dilemma at all, you can laugh now, it raises that question, but here, it's obviously the style of today's debate unlike any of us so far I'd say the debate in which you were much more confident, much more convincing, you didn't hide some important things and facts, and today the situation is clearly quite different when we have 25 billion registered deficits in this rebalancing and when we have very, very much more uncertainty and risks and hidden deficits. Now we're talking about local self-government, here's the mayor and the mayor, let them tell you what their budget deficit is going to be. The billion you've been counting on your projections is what you would say, a grain of salt, so that's nothing compared to what kind of deficit in local self-government is going to be. So a billion kunas and more than that will have only the city of Zagreb. Well, the other day, the mayor went out to a press conference with his whole world and said he was going to miss a billion kunas in the budget. And where are the other 555 units in the state? What are we people talking about? So I don't want to spread defetism here, but let's face it, this is a major crisis, a serious crisis, with a great uncertainty of what's going to happen in the coming weeks and months, and you have to be aware that the country is 4 months away, now that we're going into elections, 4 months. until the formation of a new government, you can't leave in a vacuum, you haven't brought in measures to protect jobs or extend it, you haven't solved a moratorium on loans legally to 12 months, people taking buses, charters, apartments that they built, apartments, etc., banks and Leasing societies because they have no other choice, no legal framework for extending moratorium deadlines, no liquidity loans, I'll give you an answer. Therefore, none of the credits of the commercial banks were granted either without guarantee or with the guarantee of the HBOR or of the State. That's the information, I have it and you obviously don't have it. So nothing's done, nothing's done that we can normally get into another part of this extremely crisisful and uncertain year. This isn't a criticism just for you, I'm the only grudge we have for you that I would say with fear, because it's closer to an election and it's hard to admit this situation that we are in right now, but people need to be told the truth and the truth is just like this. He threatens to quit, threaten to lose jobs especially in the tourist activity and the tourism sector and all related activities. Everyone else may be able to adapt somehow, but there will be the biggest problem, so people need to overcome this situation, they need to be introduced by 12 months moratories, they need to be given liquidity loans, they need to be able to survive this, and then somehow we're going to fight to get the GDP back and get the whole situation back into a more favourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, today's figures on the structure of the rebalancing actually show us the structure of the Croatian economy and what's actually the fact is that when the economy falls 9%, that the taxes that are, especially these consumption taxes that make us most of our budget are going down faster. So GDP falls at a rate of 22%, excise duties per rate of 16%, means indirect taxes, so we're talking about consumer taxes because that's just how our economy's structure is, we have a larger share of services, it shows us actually our balance of payments shows us that the larger service structure in 2020 than it was in 2008, so we're focused on renting, on services, on exporting services, and actually when this happens, one such locking of the economy, we see that I give tax revenues that are actually a degree of budget, fall under two digits, and that's what's actually a big warning. What is only positive between 2008 and 2020 is access to financial markets. I did say that one big bond of a billion and 250 million dollars is under in 2010 so that I don't say the severe torments were ever issued at all, by 6% interest, when, by me and that structure and deficit wasn't what we have today and we see that today the minister says that we can borrow 0.7% means 0.7% we can be in debt when we report a 25 billion deficit and actually when it was a structure, when it was a different structure, we couldn't take even interest of 6%. E means the structure of the financial market has changed completely, completely changed, and it is the only and only instrument of the government that can defend the crisis, and that makes the government the only instrument of borrowing either through pension funds or through banks or the CNB through the creation of offers because money is so cheap that it is at 0.5, 0.7% to 1%, and that is the last and only dam of the entire economic activity. Let's be honest and realistic, and this part of the money paid to the citizens, these 6 billion kunas exclusively comes in debt, the minister himself said that... The EU institutions are much more threefold in the approval of funds to Member States and in this context and exclusively both the last dams of both this budget and the rebalancing and the economy are borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was actually said here and that is unfortunately not the time, but certainly the state of the public business. The minister here talked about extra- budget users, 10 of them who went from 700 million plus to 2400 minus, meaning delta about 3 billion kuna, but the question is what else is the state of the wider part of the public business, and we know that especially from the transport sector, that they were in the minus when they were good times, when they were better times that they were in the minus, we know that the traffic is not, we know that the tourist will not be, the question is, what will happen to Croatia Airlines, what will happen to Jadrolinia, airports, the number of public enterprises that are not part of this budget but are in fact indirectly bound to the budget, so they are certainly directly bound by the locking and inability of citizens to travel, so it will surely come to the government in the future, or to the Ministry for some additional funds, which are certainly the risks of additional burden. What's most important here is to say that the economy is trust and that it's one consumer psychology. What has been announced, and measures themselves now see that many epidemiologists are announcing that there will be a continuation of the recession or crisis of the virus in the 9th month and that consumer psychology is very simple, delaying all possible purchases. We see that in the 4th month, only a thousand cars were purchased or registered in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that any major purchases other than bread, flour, oil, sugar, etc. Those needs mean people only buy it, they delay everything else. And that's the problem, that's the problem of whether it's going to be a 9% drop, 15 or 20. All investments, private investments, if citizens don't know, entrepreneurs don't know what locking will be, it's the biggest problem and budgets and rebalances and economies. Consumer psychology, not knowing what will happen in the 9th month, all have closed not only this part but there will be no private sector investment and there will be no spending, it is the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206262	Thank you. The next debate is Nikola Grumoja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206263	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's budget rebalancing shows the first signs of the seriousness of the economic crisis ahead of us, however, it is only a technical and temporary rebalancing that can hardly be based on some more serious assessments. Still, Croatia and the Croatian economy depend in many ways and are susceptible..., no one knows how the epidemiological situation will develop and not only in Croatia but also in Europe and the world. As with other countries, we have only begun to give in to quarantine measures, and we will yet see the economic consequences of this whole story. What seems certain, however, is that the Croatian coronary economy will be more affected by the crisis than the EU average. The European Commission's first forecasts again put us at the very beginning of the nearly 10% GDP decline and we are again in a group of countries with Greece, Italy and Spain that will suffer the most. Clearly in the government, they will say that they are not responsible for the coronary virus nor for this crisis, and that this crisis has affected all EU countries without exception. However, when we look at forecasts for some other countries where GDP will fall to 4 or 5%, we can view these figures with a certain jealousy, knowing that their governments and their economic policies have been better and more successful than our government's policies and not a little more successful than twice as successful. Similarly, previous crises have taught us that our economic recovery lasts up to three times longer than the more successful and stable European economies. All indications are that we will look at the same scenario and now, we can all thank this government for failing to implement the necessary reforms in our mandate. As far as this rebalancing is concerned, I also said through the replica, and its indicators, it is clear that the elections at the door do not reduce budget spending by a single kuna. On the other hand, there is an enormous drop in budget revenues, about 23 billion kuna, and that is 16%, but these are just forecasts that are now more based on astrology than on reliable and final indicators, so we will learn the real truth and the state of things only after the election. What we are particularly concerned about is the decline of 500 million kuna in the EU aid item, this is particularly strange given all the information coming from the government that the EU will come up with programmes and allocate countries special means to combat the economic consequences of the crisis. The reduction in this revenue item also shows what and what extent investment funding is, in fact, an investment financed by EU funds, and we believe that such a conceptual approach in the fight against this economic crisis is wrong. In the European budget, Croatia has so far paid 21 billion kuna since we became a member, so far we have not been celebrated in withdrawing funds from the EU and stopping projects now that we are at the end of a multi-annual financial framework seems irrational. What is still worrying us about in the overall economic picture of Croatia is the expected decline in exports by 15%, while at the same time increasing imports of 12%, so our external trade balance that is not brighter and worsen anyway. Of course, with all these threats and galloping the rise of unemployment. The government forecasts are that this rate will rise from 6.6% to 9.5%, we in MOST personally think that the situation in reality will be worse, and since we started opening borders we can expect to return to Croatia a solid number of our people who have moved out of Croatia in recent years, and now they could be out of a job that they once went to. The measures to preserve jobs, so-called jobs, will also expire soon. And then we'll just start facing the right proportions of this crisis and the consequences for the citizens. So I asked Minister Maric in the replica not to tell me and assess how he is experiencing the atmosphere of citizens, whether they are positive or negative, I didn't think he was some kind of psychologist who should answer such questions. I asked him on concrete financial indicators if they are, and it will be much worse in the 9th and 10th months, it is clear that the mood of Croatian citizens and their existence will be threatened and it is clear why this government is pushing the elections now and why until yesterday, those in self-insulation were bioterrorists, and today they are those who are called to the polls, all they need is to put a mask on their faces. So, what does it matter here? MOST has all the time proposed concrete measures that applied to this period of quarantine and impasse in economic social life, but some of our measures are also measures for the day after we leave quarantine to make economic recovery and take off faster, more dynamic and powerful. Our measures follow a real change, a change of paradigm, a change in how the state applies to the economy and the private sector in the first place, treating it as a partner and a partner, not as a sheep for cutting and a rag for living. For now, the state has taken over the burden of crisis, the burden of liquidity and the burden of a good share of workers' wages. We will pay this burden through an increase in public debt, will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, including those who will come to this world, children who are due today or tomorrow to be born, and we will pay for it for years after this pandemic of the Coronal Virus ends. We've been talking all this time about respected public sector savings ministers, especially at local and county level. The crisis has clearly shown that counties are no longer meaningful, no role, that they are only disturbing and slowing development and that they need to be abolished without mercy. So, the Republic of Croatia is a country, I remind you all here, of barely 4 million people and it's quite enough that it has two levels of government, central and local, and that both of them are effectively organised, that their powers are not overlapping and that they work for the benefit of citizens, not for the sake of petty private breakthroughs of local party boundaries. Our vision of the Republic of Croatia is clear. A vision of the Republic of Croatia with strong cities and municipalities and a strong central state. Those who propose regions, we all know that there will be nothing of it, never will Dubrovnik agree to be under Split, never will Zadar agree to be under Split, never will Sibenik agree under Zadar and never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka. So, from the region there's nothing, it's a missed concept. A much better concept is a strong central state, strong cities and municipalities without counties as some kind of, I would say, just a transfer of money, and in that transfer there is much, much loss. We see how, on incompetent actually mayors, on incompetent personnel like Mr. Sanader, Boban and others who have enabled this chaos that is happening now in Split and Split-Dalmatia County. We need an immediate removal of parafiscal duties, we suggested it here, the abolition, while at least this crisis, membership fees for HGK and HTZ, you refused. So at this point, we have 448 different parafiscal burdens that take the economy and citizens nearly 9 billion kunas. That money should be given to the citizens, that money should be given to the entrepreneurs. So, we only suggested that two parafiscal charges be abolished, and that would leave about 600 million kuna in the pockets of Croatian citizens. We are also disappointed by the fact that the government has rejected our proposal that entrepreneurs should only permanently pay VAT when they charge their invoices, not that such a rule applies in only 3 months. And what I have to say in the end, I wouldn't be too long. This government is constantly working in the interest of banks. Here at HS colleagues Bačić, a colleague of Grozdana Perić, defended banks, not Croatian citizens. They stopped here and stood up as bank lawyers. What we urgently need, which was done by Slovenia, by the moratorium on loans and interest. The first measure Slovenia adopted in March was a moratorium on loans and interest. What did this government do? We suggested this in February. This government has brought a moratorium to implementation in April of the month and only until the election. So, if you had brought it as Slovenians in March to the election when you planned it, that measure would have expired. This shows how much you care about Croatian citizens. The only thing you care about is your election result, and there's nothing we can do about it, and we won't get back together. Here in HS and in the public we will serve Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, we will account for it, and you will continue to serve banks, you will continue to watch some of your future arrangements, you will continue to watch some of your loans, and we will only take our bills to the dear God and the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206264	The next debate is on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished representatives Radin and Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. "Anus Horribilis" could be called, it could be called this year, a terrible year. The impact of the coronary pandemic on the health, social and economic system is extremely negative throughout the world, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, Zagreb and its surroundings hit the strongest earthquake in the past 140 years on 22 March 2020, causing major infrastructure damage and additional pressure on functioning public services, on the functioning of public services. Following this, of course, there was a huge decline in GDP, of 9.4%, with all components on the spending side of GDP except state spending to record a decline. If we look at the situation in the EU, we'll see that we didn't do well here, so 9.4%, and in the EU they were lighter and they wrote 9.1%, but also 9.1% puts us in 4th place from behind. Only Spain, Italy and Greece are behind us for GDP damage. The share of public debt in GDP in 2020 will grow by 13.5% compared to 2019, which will be 86% or 87% of GDP and the unemployment rate will be 3.3%. So like I said before, "annus horribilis". The lack of general budget will, of course, produce a pay drop, writes a moderate wage drop, but whether or not it will be moderate, we will see. The new plan in 2020 will also lack the general budget, which will amount to 8 GDP or 28.9 billion kuna according to the national methodology. The expenditure of the 2020 budget shall be kept at the same level as the total amount of 147.3 billion kuna. And now we're going to do what's interesting to us from the national minorities. The National Minorities Council, according to the new proposal for a state budget, will have reduced funds, but only 0.3%, and it will all refer to a reduction in the administration's item, not donations to national minority associations. On the other hand, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Funds for the office will decrease by 4.3%, but not for programmes for national minorities where funds are reduced by only 0.1%. So in other words, to say how I see this thing, there was a fact that almost four years of 3.5 years since the election, the operational plan for national minorities has actually been achieved to the extent that we consider insufficient and that now in the finals they have to be done and certain projects have to be completed. These projects concern what ensures the survival of the identity of national minorities or at least an attempt because we will never stop saying that those who believe that national minorities are given too much money to come to us and we will prove to them with a pen and paper that national minorities in order to really keep their identity and their cultural autonomy should have far more resources than they have now. But it's been that way for years, so we'll keep that in mind. There are some things in this budget that are obviously a mistake, e.g. One new item is actually an old item and it is the famous Italian school Leonardo da Vinci from Buje, reconstruction and addition of the school where it is written that an increase of 7 million 895 thousand kuna is planned. No increase is planned, in fact, what happened constantly in the operational plan for national minorities, we are being downloaded, so the item has been downloaded from this budget and reintroduced and reintroduced and it looks like it's one big increase in the budget on that item. I'd like to be such an increase, but not an increase is actually a zero. Also, of course in that horrible year we are in that horrible year, we are grateful that it has been retained, as we are grateful that it was held in the Ministry of Culture held funds for the publishing house “Edit” which is the only one, and only one minority has its daily presses that is the Italian minority, it is obvious evidence that the funds are actually in the extreme line insufficient, but we are grateful that in that year it is still... contained in... minorities and in the Ministry of Culture. You, Mr. Vice President, will now give your word to Mr. Bilek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206266	Dear Representative Bilek, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few months ago, we really talked in a completely different direction. When we were making this state budget, we predicted only growth of those 2.5%, we had good indications, we were doing some things proposals for new projects, cooperation programmes for the withdrawal of European funds, unfortunately here's what happened, something we couldn't expect. Now the projections are quite different, the projections have received one negative connotation, but when we compare everything and look at the situation with the health situation in the Republic of Croatia is much better than some other countries, so we can thank the rapid reactions of both government and headquarters, but above all, all of our citizens who have followed and all the services that have done this big part of the job. It worked immediately at the beginning with the first measures, second, third measures, etc., of course in the first hand, and HS granted approval to make redistributions in that case. The redistributions were correct, they went straight to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it had stopped then, if the state had closed down then, if she hadn't let the money go into circulation, what would have happened? Then what some here said would happen, then 500,000 unemployed would happen, then there would be a huge decline in GDP, an increase in debt, a borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, and a question at all if we got out of a crisis like this. We are now even in some better trends than some EU member states, not to say some countries in the neighbourhood, but that is because it has been invested. So the government didn't close the valve, so let's call it, the Ministry of Finance and all the rest of the state budget followed the needs of the market, the funds came to the expense of companies, trades, companies, OPGs, all those who could and requested government measures. This did not stop consumption given how much it could have been blocked entirely in the shuttle down we still had certain things, construction firms and some others that were doing their processes, but we did get to this. We have come to the fact that we have to change the items in the Croatian state budget so that we can continue such a trend that is not good, is not good for anyone in the world, unfortunately it is not good for us either, but in this situation it may be the best that it can be. Such a trend as the Government as well as our ministries, but also state-owned companies are still in the process of telling the investment cycle where our domestic companies are employed, where they are being built, where everything that can be done for people to earn their salaries, to make companies work. So are our counties, our cities in this part of here are secured 2 billion kunas of unscathed borrowing for local self-government units, more than 2 billion kunas, which will help breathe and continue all projects. Let us not forget that projects of local importance, regardless of whether to build homes, whether to edit roads, whether it is kindergarten or anything else where our domestic construction companies are also projects of sustainable development for all citizens in these areas, but also for the breathing of the economy. Without that, there are no salaries, no payments, no health care, no systems, but no spending means no business for trade, production and everything else. And that's exactly how the state invested in production, not only in the consumer part but in the production because the funds went directly to our citizens. As for achieving the rights of national minorities and as far as the state budget is concerned, aware that some items will suffer this situation, aware that there will be no power to implement certain programmes and projects that we have drawn up, but it has been monitored in the budget, we knew that some items will not be sustainable. But I'm glad that about creating assumptions and cultural autonomy as regards the Council for National Minorities that we have succeeded in the dialogue to prove that this is a fundamental matter for the functioning, not only of the associations and institutions of national minorities but of the cultural but also of the rest of the lives of our citizens in this area because there are also grounds for the lives of people, the existence of institutions, such as... The Daruvar, which is in any or "Edit" spoken of by his colleague, is in any earthquake in the financing of these funds. People get paid, people lose their jobs on that side, that's what's important. Also in my earlier question, the Minister of Finance in fulfilling the obligations under the signed contracts, I received the answer that these obligations will be respected, that this part of the reserve is being held, so it is in this budget rebalancing. On that side, I'm glad that we can safely go to further months that may not be as promising as we'd like to be because of course we don't know what's waiting for us in the 10th, 11th month, but we have some basic security measures to go. On the other hand, there are measures through three ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, which are used again in the areas of national minorities by all citizens regardless of what nationality they are. There are several gaps, so we talked about this part in private, I believe there have been some errors in the ministries, some of the ministries in coordination are about it if we need to invest some amendments, but I believe that we will communicate it on both sides and afterwards support the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206268	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206269	Thank you very much. As I mentioned to the minister, somehow there was an expectation that catching with a crisis means a lot more engagement, is one thing, we've learned already in the past, we can do denial all the time, I'm going to cut down some of my spending, I'm going to stop what I might have planned, I'm going to stay in some frames, but it's already proved as in any family budget, there's no progress, but there you are, you're just hanging in there, you're simply in that frame that you've given, and whatever needs you can't move forward, you're not moving. Now here, speaking of the state budget, we can also talk in a regular normal procedure when the economy is in its swing, when it has its accumulation, it is making investments, of course with the government's budget spending giving additional components of GDP, but this time that component is lagging out, our industrial production is falling, totaling GDP looking, meaning import-export elements, what we're talking about, and the commission has found that we are among the four countries that are going to have the biggest GDP decline of over 9%. So, we have Italy, Spain, and don't take me for the fourth word. So all of these other countries have a significantly smaller decline, the declines range between 5% and 9%. We're the ones who end up shaking the most... When we break and there is now where the budget rebalancing should be, will this be the one that I think is necessary in the sight of a desire ruling to dissipate the parliament or will be the next to come with a delay where we are wasting extra time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's necessary that when we touch that, when we hit the bottom, we can go up there, and that's what's important is how much we give. Who may have followed a little bit of Germany, the German Minister of Finance, what does he require? It also requires additional borrowing, means an increase in their borrowing in Germany so that they can inject their economy as strongly as possible to remove them as soon as possible. So we have two, two worlds. One is so developed, let's say a concept that has already shown its success and that is why we always take Germany for an example in which direction we should think, but on the other hand, so we always do the opposite, always looking at how we're going to make savings. Saved up somewhere, moved somewhere else. The maximum range of the budget is we're gone, we're here. So we have increased needs, and our budget is in the same frames. Now, are we gonna make a move with those funds? Hard, hard, even the way I think. But two components would stand out which, for which our citizens and entrepreneurs had the highest expectations, are the component of the Ministry of Agriculture and the component of the Ministry of Economy. Agriculture has been discussed a great deal, meaning that certain sectors of agriculture will have significant difficulties where support for small, especially smaller agricultural economies has been discussed, and there have been many during these two months of initiatives, attempts. In the end, this rebalance shows actually direction. The total budget for agriculture will increase by 0.6%. It was you that all this crisis was worth, right now it's 0.6% to the government. They believe it is necessary to add to the agriculture sector to resolve all this together. Impossible, simply impossible, no, we can't do that, especially that we live in areas that are extremely agricultural aware that any economic operator, say by 0.6% to give you cash, what now on account, what are we going to do, what would be the answer? Here, don't thank me. Don't do that, there's probably going to be a condition that's going to be even more burdensome to us, it's either simple or we've got a real shift or we're not moving. So these funds from the Ministry of Agriculture didn't go into the luft before, they were also contained in, in investments, in agricultural consumption, for agricultural progress, and now we should say by 0.6 let's change the current situation. Alid, I'm going to go local now, so look back at the area I come from as representative of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, minus 37% on funds. Puff! So, that policy goes, we help that area to advance it, to reach it, it's experienced with the first one, with the first disorder that happens tectonically. So, when the Republic of Croatia sneezes a little bit, and it's actually very coughing compared to other countries, then Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem get pneumonia. Here, this is about the message that is sent through this, and especially when we come through rural development measures where somehow the potential of retreating in these areas in a greater minus, 86 million kuna is predicted where the primary reduction of the component from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, somehow it seems to me that this rebalancing under the name of the crown will cover those gaps that as a state we had in withdrawing EU funds that would simply say, will now be asked for an excuse under the crown. But if we were to explain what the crown is, and what the funds are, then we would see, we weren't successful in withdrawing the funds so far, that the story that we've been told about success is actually experiencing the collapse now is impossible that we haven't withdrawn those funds in these two months, we haven't pulled them in the previous time, and now we're just going to clean them out of this budget. One entrepreneurial, like this, note, OKFŠ, common useful functions of the forest, not tax giving, popularly called parafiscal impose paid by entrepreneurs. Now there's been so much pressure, there's a desire to reduce something there, at that position there's an increase of 36 million kuna, so these funds are still significantly higher, and instead of showing up this intention we're going to do something about where they're pushing it, even if it's one symbolic reduction that doesn't break that balance between the foresters, but it comes out to the entrepreneurs. It's this item that shows direction that no one wants, and that's, let's go, there's an increase. No, it won't increase the fee, but it just shows that there are more funds than it is, so 30% is increasing. The economy, colleague Horvat, has lost 13%, 400th and a few million kunas. Ha, if we were to compare it to maybe some other countries somewhere, and he would say, "I'm leaving this government to be taken by someone and hit by 13%, I need to go around defending the government's economic policy." It's not just the Ministry of Finance to defend economic policy, it's also the minister of the economy that's expected as a member of the government that the one that promotes economic policy and he needs to say here, we're going to do our best, we're going to cut 13%, but that's people, all right, no problem, that's exactly what you're expecting, we're going to cut down, and you're going to cut something, we're all falling again. Investment support, total budget -30%, OPC, means from the EU but pairs what I was saying about agriculture, -320 million kuna, of which from regional development 319. 22% below the point of strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises -37%. Even the stock supplies we're on in those measures when we've adopted it, let's go buy products, fill in stock supplies to help out what, especially products that don't have a market... to keep it, so it's a pure offer and demand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reduce the position of the offer, demand, if there has been a reduction, demand for prices to remain balanced, withdraw from the market of certain goods, therefore stock supplies can serve, -59 million kuna. I don't know, whatever I touch here, it's actually controversial to adopt this kind of budget rebalance that doesn't really show that we're actually through the budget, so we say our pants off to help the economy, help all the components that exactly those components of GDP that make up, let the entrepreneurial part be emphasized. This way there won't be any more significant wage cuts, I see that's how it is at the level of a collective contract, so it goes to be kept back through the consumption of citizens by that component. A decline in industrial production, a failure to invest what we can expect, 9.4%, we might say, we'd be happy to keep it that way. When someone says next year it's going to be 6.1%, I'd just ask the question, is it from 31.12.2019 and is it 6.1% from that level, or are we going to fall to the bottom first and then we're going to fall 6.1% to the bottom. No, I know, it makes sense, but when you present it to people in one title, this year we fall 9.4%, we grow 6.1 per year, it's not the same base. It's not 100%, so let's go, now we're down 9.4 so we're going to grow to 106 commas something. It's not like that. We're going at 92.8, add 6. A little math now, but when the papers show it, it's like we're 3% different. It's not a 3% difference. Here's to the end, always the part that we look less at this particular part of the budget, but we also need to look at the other ones that are users of that state budget. And something I noticed in the Croatian highways, they explained that they gave up planned procurement for investment maintenance and construction because traffic load was reduced. So it turns out that our roads, since there was no traffic, I don't know, trucks or cars during these two months, are actually in great shape, that there's no need. Walk a little towards Slavonia, colleague Hajdukovic is driving there so he may not reach that part behind, but there he is, so the highway has failed, which should be invested intensively, means only investment-based, not one new building that needs to be maintained. I say we give up because there's no traffic, so it doesn't make sense, let's go now that it's less traffic, let's go rebuild it and be ready to increase that, but, look, that's something I've noticed like that. Croatian roads, expenditures of non-financial assets -17%, on fast roads, I will, again, say so little locally, from a srijem transversal much to be talked about, definitely nothing and will make one remark and exactly the Ministry of Finance about the clarification, when Croatian roads give their plan, which we have adopted, and indicate some of the infrastructure, key infrastructures they want to build, then also, when they are doing rebalancing and reducing, should specify which projects they give up. Because like this, we should now ask you, what projects they're giving up and you'll say, here, I don't know, what, ask Minister Butkovic, he should know or someone from the Croatian Roads. Then let's go out with it, that 110 million kuna of fast roads, where is it? What are those fast roads, what are the rest of them, that are left out? And I'm curious, and I'd like to know that information, too, here's the question, so I hope the Ministry's representative will communicate with it when he has his own insight that he can point out. This is how we should vote on something, I can't vote if it concerns something that might be of interest to an area, especially if I come from that area. And another ambitious plan, in the CERP, sales of shares in companies, is something that is constantly going on by each government, always opening certain names of certain companies because they are of particular importance, less special, there are discussions, and then predicting each year something goes on in so-called. privatisation and there is income from that position, for this year 25 million is planned. Now we have an increase of 55 million kuna. So, in terms of economic downturn, we're willing to sell state property and that significantly higher share than planned, then I'm just asking the question of whether the planned prices will be realized? If there is a crisis right now, I know that there is access to financial resources, but is there enough economic activity and economic operators who would be interested in entering such investments or certain funds that would want us to achieve such growth? It means that CERP should practically increase its engagement by 2/3 and make sales, and that's just to settle the budgeting. I'm just afraid that we're not going to be in the direction again to quickly collect some cash, so the less we have to be in debt, and later after a certain time we'll be discussing whether in a year or two we could achieve a significantly better price of the price being realized in 2019, when the pro-pulsively any situation in the economy was certainly a better basis for achieving a better price than now when we have such a significant degradation where caution suggests that the offered amount should not be too exposed to being realistically lower than those that would be in the run of the economy or on the rise. Here, these were some thoughts and in the name of our club, in fact that there are no of these choices then we would probably discuss it in more detail, and this is now going to be quick to survive election time, and then the real budget will be discussed by some, rebalance of some new calling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206270	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206271	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the amending budget for 2020. Of course the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Every time we discuss budgets or changes, we don't have a very big audience and we don't have that much interest, although it's a basic document of one country, from which everything is seen and from which everything can be read and trends and guidelines, and I think that all paragraphs are insufficient and spoken and insufficiently. This budget rebalance stemmed from everything that is happening in our environment in the world, and surely it would not have happened so early that the impact of this particular pandemic did not have such a negative effect on economic activity, and then also on the general situation. In this budget rebalancing, it is evident that the total expenditure has been kept at a level or slightly higher than, for 326 million kuna and they amount to, therefore, 141.5 billion kuna, while revenues are lower, as already said, by 23.2 billion kuna or 121.95 billion kuna. What the hell was that about? Well, everything that's been done and what we've done in 3.5 years, we've achieved precisely to bring the state of finance, state finances in line, to enable certain growth. You see, one small virus actually brought down everything that's 3.5 years old. It worked hard. The aim of surely the Ministry of Finance and the Government is not to provoke what some colleagues advocate some great consumption but to first redistribute to enable all of those projects, which is precisely this way when the cost of maintaining the economy and, and, and businesses, and then actually with debt, is to enable all those projects, which are ongoing not to stop but to move on. So that's when you rely primarily on your own forces, and then if that's not enough, then you can move on. We are witnessing that the government has gone to several stages, so the March measures, so the April measures and it is quite understandable and rational because in this way, all the possible difficulties that can happen during life or here in these two months were assessed and in this way, in cooperation with all ministries, with entrepreneurs, with citizens in the end line, were seen where it is necessary and how it works. And with what has been done so far, what has been done has proved to be absolutely correct, completely quality, timely, and in this way has just stopped those black scenarios as some and what some would have wished, so that we have many hundreds of thousands of unemployed and much more and social and other problems. What is seen from the budget itself is that it was in that part of any subsidy, whether it is given to households or entrepreneurs, it is seen that it has provided maximum funding, and as I said at the outset it was a redistribution of 2.1 billion kuna within the budget itself, so that here it would now be further secured up to 6.7 billion kuna, which is then forecasting a period and by finally 30th to June of this year. What's going on in this period? It is already mentioned normally that GDP will fall, it is something that is inevitable and happening, not only to us but to all countries in Europe and the world, but when you look at the components exactly what I've just said and the structure of GDP, then it is seen that this is exactly the state's consumption that is not falling even though all other parameters are particularly negative except for imports of goods and services. But when you look again at what it contains then in that import of services and goods, a significant component is just imports of energy. We have seen that there have been many proposals in which to improve the situation, they have competed with proposals as much as possible in one way or another, but these precisely these measures and the laws that we have adopted have shown that cold heads should have been pushed away very well and aimedly allowed to be given direct budgetary support, and also to enable both the economy and the public to reach their breath and ultimately to propose in all this. What I personally think is that we will get out of this crisis much sooner and faster than it was the financial crisis in 2008-2009 and when we speak here now and when we speak colleagues about what we are doing, so this is exactly what the conditions are changing at, and I think, although the scenario has been very conservative, but I believe that if we keep a certain level of discipline that can in this way be run now from June to June, then on, start and tourism, and certainly the economy. We need to be very careful here, what epidemiologists warn us about, so we need to stick to the rules of conduct and take good care of it in everyday life, as well as in business life. When we speak within the state budget itself, changes have also occurred in the Law on the implementation of the state budget where it is seen that the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money markets has changed from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion kuna. There has also been a change in art. 3.In current debt repayments, the total annual value of financial guarantees is also changed from 3800 to 4800 billion kuna, and the HBOR guarantee fund has also increased from 60 to 140 million kuna. It is important to say that special attention is also given to the law on enforcement. 6. where new employment is limited, i.e. it must be taken into account to limit only the necessary cases, and this is a time when both the Government and all ministries are taking great care of their capacity and capabilities. I would point out that it was precisely from this period when, in the short term, it was made possible and with the earthquake that it was, so we know that some ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, have no working conditions, how fast and quality the situation was adjusted, as in the shortest possible time, other services allowed and made a billion-and-a-half kuna aid paid to employees of the company over 84,000 companies. So I think that this speed has certainly shown that we are both capable and that we can make big steps whenever we want and when we need it. In particular, I would like to point out that the Commission for Fiscal Policy has reacted in accordance with its powers, and in its previous report or position, it has said precisely that it can deviate from fiscal rules, so in such cases as these were possible and it can be done to deviate from these numerical rules and to allow the state to be in charge above what was planned until then, according to the criteria of how the Fiscal Responsibility Act was determined. Thus, it has been shown that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have really responded correctly, that it has acted according to all the rules of the profession and that, in this way, when some criticise how much the EU has helped Croatia, and that there are still 18 billion kuna in those aids, it has been possible to re-apply these funds with existing means of planning to the very purposes that Croatia needs, and here there is the possibility that the European Social Fund could use the exact funds that were possible for some other projects, with no project going to stop or end. Therefore, this way in which it is managed rationally not only by its means but also by European means to prove that we are responsible and in this way as a country that has reacted to the first in this way, I think that this is evidence and we can serve as an example. And I must also say that it is also through the management of this crisis situation of the virus, or COVIDA-19, that it has been proven to take great care of the health of its citizens and that it has achieved its maximum since other countries have as many as they have died, hence this great pressure as we guard these or those activities, that any activity in Croatia is important both agriculture, tourism or financial services, any activity is important because it employs people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206272	Thank you. The next is the Živni zidom club and let's change Croatia's distinguished representatives Vucelic and Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206273	Dear citizens. The living wall has been warning for years that HDZ and SDP have no strategy for the country's future, except for the borrowing and sale strategy. In 2020, by rebalancing the budget that is under discussion today, this majority in the Assembly has been bought and charged with a new borrowing from 26.8 billion to 62.5 billion. 35.7 billion more, 35.7 billion that we will never be able to repay. Our citizens are expected to pay their debts, debts to which high treason policy leads. If they don't pay, they're blocked, they're done, they're taken away from their property, and they're kicked out of their homes, and they're worth even a few thousand kunas. And how will the state pay its debts? The solution to HDZ and SDP is constantly new borrowings, borrowings that neither we nor our children can repay, and since this year the borrowing of our grandchildren begins. It's clear to everyone. It's clear to all of us that year after year, we'll be living more and more poorer. What's written as collateral? Mortgage, woods, water, islands. Instead of our business of entrepreneurs and citizens funding our CNB in our currency, we continue to listen to colonial borrowing policy in foreign currency at huge interest rates. Instead of having and broadcasting our own money and paying our CNB interest, we encourage our economy, we turn from hollow to empty, at the same time becoming more and more in debt and selling out our countries and its resources, our people. How much longer? This could be the moment when we will start our economy, deal with the intrinsics, earrings and artistic organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Tourist Board, of course, and the HRT, to deal with the banking and the upcoming parliamentary elections and the political mafia. But that's not gonna happen. The Law of the Living Wall on Electronic Voting will not even be found at the debate in this session of the Parliament because it is important for this government that 50% of the people do not go to the polls. The law of the Living Wall on the examination of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property is also pushed under the carpet. It's important to keep it as it is, and as it is, it will continue. A new wave of arrests awaits us, a country with a growing population has an ever-increasing public sector. The entanglements will continue. They enable and allow this rebalance of the budget. We are expected to have a new wave of criminals who need to settle down, and they will settle down, which also confirms the appointment of a new HDZ state attorney and its policy of protecting criminals. This week's debate includes the appointments of the same team that controls public procurement operations. The job's going as good as it used to be. We are expected by a new wave of refugees, Croatian refugees who are not fleeing the war, but by crime and devastation left behind by HDZ and SDP parties, as well as their criminals and their allies. The Corona has only accelerated the consequences of catastrophic high treason policy in about a year. The question I'm getting is, can our citizens hold you for another four years? And what will be left of our land? Are we going to be left with only party voters on the state chest and normal people driven off and scattered around the world? Today, young people, tomorrow's future pensioners are waiting for the fate of national pensions and survival with 800,00 kn per month and if they ever get pensions. When will it be enough? When we get on our feet and tell the bandits enough, this is our land? The living wall will not support you in further robbery, poverty and land borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206274	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, in fact I apologize, the division, excuse me, shared the discussion of colleagues Vucelic and colleagues Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206275	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the rebalancing of the state budget. The time is crisis, and in front of the Party we change Croatia or a team of experts who have worked on this I will present our proposals and observations on this rebalancing. First, let me repeat what's been said. The rebalancing forecasts the redistribution of 2 billion and 100 million kunas because about this strategy, if the revenues of the state budget fall, and the expenditures are kept by the same amount, then the only thing that can be done is to make redistributions on the side of the expenditure, so that something can be done. But, you see, the expenditures don't go down by $1.00, and they can be reduced, they can be reduced, and I'm sorry there isn't a minister here. As I came to this assembly here, for four years, four years ago, I was saying that I needed to refinance the overpriced state loans and bonds at the lowest interest rates now, this government started doing it seven or eight months ago, something was sewn up, but also too little and too late. My calculation shows that it's in this 4 g. It could have saved about 15 billion kuna, and it would have been extremely useful now during this crisis. I'm asking the question to this government, why didn't you do the re-financing? Why didn't you save 15 billion kunas that way? Dear citizens who are watching this, yesterday I was in a café, for the first time in two months, you know. I went to see him as a politician and an economist, and I expected there to be a lot of people. No, not a lot of people. We were only a few of us at the table for 20 minutes at a decent distance as prescribed. I'm asking the waiters what's going on? Is it because of fear or because of money? He says both. What happens when these measures stop, so this program helps after 15.6. If people are already getting help from the state, the Minimals, they hesitate, trying to spend? Of course it will be the same. Why? People are already afraid of that. Thus, it is a known situation that people’s behavior in the recession to increase savings or not to spend, spend on food, medicines, and what is necessary. So, we'll see, we'll face much bigger problems after 15.6. And that's why this government decided to call the election right early in the beginning of 7 months, while as long as it can, through its media, control its media, manage fear in people who are particularly threatened. You see, I didn't come here to convince the figures that it was about, I came on behalf of the Party to change Croatia in front of a team of experts because dear citizens, I'm sure while you're watching and monitoring the transfer of the assembly, you're looking and wondering, so who can solve this crisis, who can get us out of this economic fungi, you know? Well, I can't have people who aren't experts, you know, who have no experience, who don't understand what's coming. Where you could've saved up, listen up. You see, the concessionaires' fee for the Macelj-Zagreb highway is 188 million kuna. That's what we'll do. We pay Peter butter every year. Compensation for concessionaries for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway 67 million kuna. Who arranged it like that? Fuel fee for Croatian roads is a billion 960 million kuna. The proposal is to cut by about 100 million kunas. Fuel fee for HZ 474 million kuna, it's a bottomless bag. Fuel fee for Croatian highways, also 474 million kuna, a bottomless bag. What do we suggest, what can be done here? You see, in this sense we need to implement so-called. securitisation of the debts of Croatian highways and Croatian roads in a way, because this is an executive today, this time is an excellent opportunity, we are in a difficult situation, now big plans are made, big moves to make, means big solutions. How could the state get rid of this interest rate and capital sucking from the Croatian highways and Croatian roads? Past, the SDP government she meant to sell it, in a concession to give, etc. You don't have to. We need to securitize. They're constantly, look out, they're 15 years old. They pay off their debts, how much they owe almost nothing to the principal. Well, it's clear that these debts are thus irreparable. We propose that one billion foreign loans be paid off from foreign reserves, and the rest of it is about 3 billion to be securitised through government bonds and sold to investors by citizens' banks and all other investors. But dear citizens, they need to know how to do it, they don't know it, and they don't just know it, they don't want it. Why? Is it appropriate for some to pay so much interest to lenders and investors who bought government bonds, above all pension funds. So as you can see when I was here to solve the problem blocked within three months, the model is very simple, it's similar to this, and so is this. For these solutions, however, we must have much greater support for citizens because the profession is now called to speak. I see here come the election of dear citizens, most MPs shake. Why? So if they don't get a seat here next time in Parliament, they don't know how to do anything else, you understand, so they're shaking. Now it's time for people who are experts, determined, brave enough to mess up these nods, incompetent people and those who practically insinuate us, and I said just now that we've been paying 15 billion kuna over the past four years, we've paid no need to pay interest to banks, pension funds, domestic and foreign, etc. What else do we suggest? I won't talk about what's familiar anymore. What are our party proposals to change Croatia? So, spend your refinancing again, save 4 billion kuna a year. Furthermore, suspend payment in II. Retirement column from workers' salaries, suspend payment. I asked for it two months ago, you disobeyed. Every month, about 500 million kuna is paid into the II funds. to the pension column, stop, freeze and pay and finance the recovery of the economy. Fuel prices charges instead of HAC and Croatian highways I said should be securitised, issued to the government bond to take over, and that we all buy banks, funds, foreigners to buy and thus free Croatian roads and highways so that they can breathe and that they can pay off that debt one day. Otherwise, with a model like this, which I'm going to explain soon, I'm going to record one video, so this is how these two companies are never going to settle their debts. Furthermore, I again urge the government and the CNB to pay out helicopter money to all adult citizens of 10 billion kuna. This will not increase public debt if it is not a debt of the state but directly delivered by the central bank to each adult citizen. After that, citizens spend, thus reducing the fear of consumption, which is the most dangerous phenomenon in recession because when people don't want to spend recession, it deepens, production decreases, unemployment increases, and we sink. Our estimates are that the situation's description of how much GDP in Croatia will fall is that it is too optimistic, there will be a major decline. There are also optimistic figures on the drop in state budget revenue, especially from VAT, excise duties and other revenues. In that sense, there is no need to paint the situation better than it is. In that sense, I call you again and I warn you, don't put us abroad, for the third time I repeat here, I'm going to press charges against anyone in the government who owes us dearly, and it can be financed at 0% of the interest if it comes to kunas from the CNB and what we need foreign reserves. Foreign exchange reserves have Croatia one of the largest in the EU in terms of GDP, however, debt management policy, interest rates on its own citizens, the exhaustion of the economy, the collapse of competition on foreign markets, the unresolved judicial system, the corruption of capillaries that has developed in this society, dear citizens after all this I do not understand how the stone remains on the stone in this country. So I invite you to the elections, and I urge you to consider the future of your children and our children to whom you will give the voice to finally pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206276	Thank you. We're continuing to work on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The next one is in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's counterpart Zekanovic, who shares the debate with counterpart Glasovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206277	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I just asked the minister an extremely simple question, he avoided answering me, so I asked him another time, and now I see he's gone in the House. Now there's you, I don't expect you to answer me, but here's the question. I'll ask you a third time. Did we get any kuna from the EU in this crown crisis? Here, keep your mouth shut. I'll answer for you. So we didn't get a lipo of one of the EU, lipo, and we haven't even realised a single loan yet. And the proof of what I'm saying lies right here in the document that we're discussing here today, which is the budget rebalance for 2020, paragraph 623 of income, foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget, that's where it should be. There we had 18 billion 756 million, and now with this rebalancing we say that 502 million kunas 893 thousand kunas will be less, less. Not only has the EU not given us more money in this extremely difficult period, because we lack the rebalancing, how much, 20, 30 billion kuna, but it has also denied us money, it has reduced its donations to its member in this case Croatia. And this should be repeated and repeated. And you said you were responsible, responsible government, and you said the EU left us hanging. Don't take care of us, they don't care anymore, it doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist. Because when the European solidarity you swore 1,000 times disappeared, it disappeared into the EU. However, I will always point out that European solidarity was not there. That it was one big lie. And why you won't say this, the fact that I just said it is a simple reason. Everything you do, you do exclusively on the order of Brussels and for the purpose of Brussels, not for the purpose of the sovereign Croatian state. I will repeat that yours is a little clearer and that the viewers hear, everything you do, absolutely everything, every step, every move is directed solely by what Brussels wants, and those what the citizens of our country, Croats and Croats want. And the thing is very exact, 500 million kunas less, and we are a tourist country based almost exclusively on tourism. We are, in fact, the tourist region of Europe, and when we are out of tourism, we are gone, we will have the biggest economic downturn across the EU. That's it. We've already got it. And even though we sacrificed all production, in all others, all other activities for the EU, the EU will not help us. So what do we have from this EU? Except for the familiarity and friendship of Andrej Plenkovic. Here comes the minister, glad he's here, and I will repeat the question to the respected Minister Maric. Why haven't we got any lip from Europe so far and how do you explain these 500 million kunas less in the budget exactly in that item where it should have been? And yet to point out, there will be no countries in the EU, and perhaps in a world that will have an economic downturn greater than Croatia. He won't. It's not your fault, Minister Maric. It's not your fault, you've come into a situation that's been found, we've systematically destroyed it, or we haven't improved it in decades, you've been here for the last four years, and you're only partially responsible for taking over this sinking ship. But that is what citizens need to know, that Croatia is a country that has one strategic activity, which is tourism. And when there is no tourism, and that can happen at any time, at any time, there is neither Croatian economy nor projections are only 9% or 8%, as much as GDP is said. You know that unfortunately, it will be much, much, much larger. Much bigger. And what will happen to Croatia in a month or so, will be able to measure it in some economies after II. svt. The war. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. Andrej Plenkovic is not, nor are you Minister Maric, and who will suffer, of course. Croatian citizens, Croats and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206278	Please, one second. Time's stopped. The second part of the debate, colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206279	Dear colleagues, Mr. Maric. I, at one point, seem to have this assembly hall as a confessional, that people confess here, but you can't confess your sins, let's move on. It may be in the church, but these economic sins, mismanagement with the state, we haven't gotten rid of it. We inherited that, a dysfunctional state where every other word of corruption. Why so far have we not formed, like Romania,.../incomprehensible/... the closest to the world's issue and the question of human beings because in that country all personnel from the former state, after being... There they moved to another Romanian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have an anti-corruption directorate that works, people go to jail, but all governments. All governments have acted on a modern monetary policy to this day. Well, look, everything says they're not. That's what I'm going to mention 10 times again, what kind of master this government is, left, right wing of the party. The failed shipyards, 30 billion kuna, which each family with four members will cost the Croatian family 5,000 euros were taken from them when you put it on that tactical level. 100 billion kuna in agriculture. Where are these storage spaces,... etc., and we complain that the drought is coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to how much money we lost with these princes, Drpislavi, and there is no revision of those parts. No revisions. Read what others write about us, you have reports from other states. For example. Austria, which spoke earlier, a report 3 years ago, that the restructuring of the state, the massive public administration, failed and that corruption is still Achilles's fifth state. You've got some kind of here now, how this country, like this one, Restort coalition, I would call it the "pipl fat trast as" coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pipple fat trast as, because they have no idea and they have proven it because they're doing the same thing that does the right wing, totally dysfunctional state, to this day. Corruption is here... Mr. Lovrinović said that, and why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where Sorosha was peeled. The NGOs, the open society, they stole his money and there's just, I'd be the first, the first law there is creative accounting. So far, no major affair has been discovered and what now. The tobacco tax and alcohol will not save the Croatian state. Not on these drinks, this one, Coca-Cola, etc. What, we have an unsustainable public administration, we've been moaning for three decades. Unsustainable public administration, it's like her, a pot, put water, water leaks out with 100 holes. You have a debt of health care, I think, a debt of health is 8.5 billion kuna and is still growing. And you've all been friends and friends, you've been in power. And now the crown is coming, and now you're saving the country. Strange, strange, strange is this thinking. We're talking absolute fiscal discipline. So far, what's happened so far? Some have been acting on local self-government like drunken billionaires in Las Vegas in a casino, here. I mentioned last week, one on, one on, one on down spent down, a woman on, that's what I said, that's a good story, a woman accused him, one on there from May 1st, spent 450 kuna on the team. So who did he host, the Sheik of Dubai, whom, there, I don't know, Saudi Arabia? Nothing to anyone. There are no retroactive laws when it comes to conversion, privatisation, just smoke and smoke curtains, we haven't entered the root of corruption. How much, Mr. Maric, would you ask how grey is, what is the percentage of the grey economy in Croatia? ... is it double from the EU or how much, I don't know, but I have to, no, no, we don't need to, there's corruption in... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you also have a gray economy in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But America has 300 and a few million inhabitants plus, we have residents like the suburbs of Brooklyn. Not 300 and something million. Tourism, one-fifth, mentioned Mr. Zekanovic of our GDP, I think it depends more on tourism. What about those people who rent apartments down there and down houses that have invested heavy money, raised loans, and no income. What happens to them and what happens to that fifth of GDP? Actually, I'd say, we know what's going to be in this, uh, near future, it's until '21. Mr. and what do we know about the coronary virus? We don't really know anything. We don't know how much this debt will be, what GDP will be nominal, real GDP, how much we will be in debt, will be, will not be saved by the European Central Bank, the AMF, etc., but we ourselves and we must soon start with... the whole state system, not the taps in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said that before that this budget is like a hollow hole, water leaks, doesn't exactly hold arguments because we're going to be in charge again. What's going to be the percentage of the debt we don't know, we can only guess, but we're still in charge. Here, there's no long-term strategy, I'd say, I'd compare the budget as long-term, all short-term. When you see in Croatia, a family house, a family house, upstairs live for 3 generations, and under the house put a small store that sells everything, from hemorrhoid cream to auto parts, would immediately earn money. No, that's not how it works. Well, we don't even have a medium-term strategy for economic development. So, who will come to invest here, give me two examples of Greenfield investments in Croatia. They took over the Czech auto-industry, the Slovaks, they were supposed to be in Lica. So who will come to a country where at every level you have bureaucracy as in ancient China and every, every, this branch of that tree, the rotten one is wanted bribe, bribe and hunt, and now look who will come when, if the average investment cycle is 5, 10 years, and you change the laws, you change every year. You, left, right wing of the party. Who will come to you here? No one's coming. That is, just, this, I don't want this to be a nagging, but we need to move things quickly. Specific things either, or we're waiting for the same thing that happened to that failed experiment, that union of Southern Slavs where it was, inflation was me thinking bigger than almost Venezuela. Only two countries had more inflation, it's Zimbabwe and Brazil, it's in the '90s, I don't know how much longer the former "South" we're paying, it's about $9 billion, it's not said. What do you say? But I would just mention, Mr Bernardić when he mentioned, uh, recently one terminology, it called it when some real termology that was abused by Mr Bernardic was not, not this rectal these climbers but rectal climbers were old characters who had already entered deep into the state system from the old country, former members of the party, these are, rectal climbers, but those who are now coming, younger frames that are licking into the left, right-wing wrong parties, they are anal alpinists who are entering that hatch now and they want to be profiled through these two parties, left, right-wing party, these are anal alpinists, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206280	Okay. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. I'll remind you that the debates on behalf of the clubs take 15 minutes, individual debates take five minutes. Next is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please welcome colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is a budget rebalancing which none of us wanted and would all be happy, of course, if we didn't have to do it because it was caused by a crisis that affected the whole world and against which the Croatian Government is fighting in all indicators, quite successfully, which I want it to continue to be even more successful in order to protect people's health first, and secondly, what has been said since the beginning, jobs and economic activity. And for these very reasons, as it has been said, it is working out, out of increased isolation for the protection of human health, to help the economy or employees in order to preserve jobs, for the sake of falling of course and economic activity, we are forced, as the minister himself said in his opening statement, in the first half of the year, in principle to do budget rebalancing. What marked this entire mandate of the government in all the discussions so far on budgets and rebalancing was tax discharge, both citizens and economies. Today we have a situation that for the first time in the state budget, we have returned money to those who paid it into the state budget and who paid it. About 7 billion kunas are said here to be that amount. There's no such thing as great wisdom. The crisis is here, it had to intervene, the budget has to be rebalanced, we need to adapt to the situation in which the state found itself. Of course, for these reasons, I would like to say firstly that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB will support budget rebalances. The minister says the unemployment rate is projected to rise to around 9.5%. I will remind, not so long ago, of a different crisis, much smaller than the current crisis, because this one, this one, is about the health and life of citizens, that is, in the term of the previous government, or the previous one, I am not talking about the one between the government for a few months, when it was 2011. The unemployment rate was 13.7% to 16.3% in 2015. So, these are some indicators that are on the table and we have to compare, especially those that criticise the government's work of course, we have to compare those times, we have to compare the success of the then Government in a crisis situation, I say to a different crisis situation with the adoption of the current government in this current crisis situation. It is obvious that this government has done so much better and more effectively. The expenditure savings are, of course, there, and I am pleased to see that, however, I was concerned about not making too much savings at the expense of investments, that projects such as the 2012 case should not be stopped. when some projects were announced to be stopped, when certain decisions had already been made, when the chariots of various letters had been made that the construction of a fast road from Cugovec to Križevci would be stopped and that the existing what was built would be preserved. I am pleased here today that the Government has the courage to continue with projects, with such projects, among which there are so many here in the Croatian Assembly, but also in the premises of Koprivnica-križevci and Bjelovar-Bilogor County mentioned "Podravski Ipslon" and the continuation of its construction. And because of the citizens in the area and because of the economy in the area of which this continuation is of vital importance, it is worth saying here that I am glad, and in some answers today, the minister has indicated this, that this project will continue and continue. I've given myself a little effort, so I've been collecting some data on the use of European water supply and disposal funds. According to the data I received, the period from 2017 to the end of 2019 is 4 times higher than the year 2009. by the end of 2016 When I talk four times bigger then I'm talking about 3.5 billion and I'm talking about 14 and some billion kuna, and that's what I'm happy about in this part of it because I think that without continuing investment, without using European money to hire the Croatian economy, we can hardly hope for a break-out, faster extraction from that part of the crisis that comes after we believe and hope to stop the spread of the coronary virus. I am also pleased that this budget rebalance is not abolished either, that the activities and constructions and the Belarusian agglomerations and the dwarves and the koprivnica and the crusades continue. A billion and 200 million kunas are the only 4 agglomerations of investment and investment in the areas I'm talking about. For all the reasons that I have stated, I have only cited a few of them, I repeat, our club will support this budget rebalance, congratulate the government on the successful fight with this crisis and wish that we will get out of it as soon as possible and start restoring the economy and hope to awaken the optimism of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206282	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is counterpart Emil Daus outside the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go, colleague Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206283	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of HS, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are aware that it is not easy to rebalance the state budget in a situation as it is today with many unknowns and uncertainty. And we will try as always to be above the daily political turmoil and pre-election campaign that has already begun and try to focus on the subject of the budget, but also on everything that is attached to it. I must admit that I personally thought that this corona crisis would wake us all up a little bit more together, that we would realize that it was very little to change everything and that we would finally get priorities, both economically and socially. That after the virus and the earthquake, we realize how small and how few we are and how together we can do something good for this country. But no, some just waited for the situation to calm down a little so they could go back to their already haunted phrases, procedures, no matter how much they hurt society, because it's easier to share people than to create a community. But when we talk about the budget and the management of public money, which is the subject of this point, it's kind of an impression, and not just now, but for decades, that it's always going the easy way because it's easier to sail down the wind. But they don't always blow the wind in the desired right direction, sometimes they have to turn back on it, board the opposite. And that's what's actually been missing for many years, making tough decisions that lead in the right direction. The so-called reforms that are being talked about, but the real ones, the real ones are actually lagging behind. There is no reform of the public administration, the reduction of the costs of the administration itself and its ineffectiveness, which generates a new additional cost, we are far from it. There is no reform of the industry by the outdated or those failed in the modern world industry. We still do not have an environment that will attract sustainable development-based investments, green energy and no agricultural reform. It would only be enough for the last 30 years to be abandoned and healed agricultural land to feed the whole country, and Croatia is importing food. I understand when it comes to tropical fruit, but potatoes, onions, salad, apples, peaches, that's a shame. And if we do not reduce and eliminate unnecessary expenditures in the public sector, nor do we invest a systematic tool in what will energize us and return multiple funds, which will create added value in our society then no rebalancing makes much sense, then they become just form, not content. Because it turns out that whenever something goes bad, the only answer for most Croatian governments is to cover the lack of income by additional borrowing. This is a pattern from the 1990s and does not stop, although occasionally a temporary flash occurs where, on the one hand, it is fairly responsible for managing public finances and should be honest and there should be commendation for the work of the current ministry headed by Minister Maric, but it should also be told the truth, which is that on the other hand, and enough happiness has been what took several years in the wider environment a good economic situation which was not the result of the systemic approach itself, at least not in the most part. But happiness has its own deadline, and as soon as it's scratched again, we're in charge again. And we wouldn't have to if we were to create values in our own backyard, but someone's importing and trading is more important than exports and production. And the more it is said to love Croatia, the less Croatian it is itself. It's actually the greatest defeat of our society. And it's not a subject or not at least the Ministry of Finance itself, but a much wider economy and agriculture and administration and the whole society as a whole. We do not want to be hypocrites, besides the IDS supported measures to help the economy realize that it requires a large amount of funds that are difficult to compensate for new revenues and it is right that Croatia has decided that health and human lives are ahead of profits, but on the other hand we do not play generals after the battle because we have been repeating the same thing for years. Domestic production, especially the agricultural foundation is Croatia's development with a special emphasis on product quality, tourism has too much of a share in GDP, it is not good, it needs to share the risk on several major industries. Let's finally turn to new technologies, when the situation has forced us in a month, it's been done in the digitization of society more than in 10 years, so it can be done. The development is based on sustainability not on extra profits of individuals, and nature is increasingly sending warnings to us, so let's finally listen to it. It is clear that there are not many of us, that we are not large and Croatia cannot compete with quantities, but it can certainly do with quality. It has great natural and human resources for it, and it can be done, not overnight, but it can be done. My colleagues and colleagues, along with all the troubles and challenges, this unfortunate pandemic is a kind of opportunity, an opportunity we talked about several times in front of the IDS club, and we thought it would be recognized and exploited. And it was an ideal time to start implementing real real reforms. And it may sound a little naive, but I'm convinced deep down that they would get even a lot of support from a large number of citizens if they know which direction and which way to go. But according to the good old one, when the elections are not too slow then the expenditure remains at least until the next rebalance, incomes are compensated by additional borrowing, only what is the problem with us in Croatia every so many elections, and borrowings will unfortunately become more expensive on the financial market. And that's the problem with most Croatian budgets, we're afraid that's going to be the same with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206284	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The following registered counterpart Boris Milosevic is in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, please welcome counterpart Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206285	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The rebalancing is coming to us much earlier this year than we used to in our earlier years. Normally and initially said in these discussions that the SDSS Club can assess positive overall fiscal policy results for the year in which we are discussing rebalancing, at least as far as the mandate of this government is concerned, no one can deny that we were doing well. And last year in the debate, on last year's rebalancing, I commented that with rebalancing compared to the original budget for 2019. We foresee an increase in tax revenues due to favourable economic developments. But that was, so just a few months ago, now a few months later we're talking about completely different circumstances, completely different conditions. After the 20th quarter growth we have a situation instead of continuing this trend, instead of growing about 3% as predicted in the 12 months of last year, we will at best have a decline that is foreseen by this rebalancing of 9.4%, but the big question is whether or not it will be. It's not about the intention of this rebalancing, it's not about the ability of this government, we simply can't know with certainty what they're carrying next months, is there going to be a new wave of epidemics, are we going to have to reintroduce the longdown, what the situation in the world will be, will we be able to travel and cross the borders, will there be air transports, what countries will be open that won't, where there will be an epidemic, how many countries that are important to us partners that our economy depends on, and in the end what season will be? There's a lot of questions, and no one has an answer. When we look at it, we are changing the State Budget Act for this year to help JLS, to help HZMO, to help HZZO, to cover income tax, to cover taxes, to cover taxes, to contribute where the taxpayer is free of payment, or payment has been delayed or payment specified in meals. We are changing the law to give the Minister of Finance authority to, with the government's consent, be more than what was found to be the level of borrowing, and all with a view to actually avoiding the occurrence of adverse consequences for the normal functioning of the state in 2020. We also amend the Accounting Act to extend the deadlines for the submission of financial reports and the boss of accompanying financial documents that entrepreneurs must file, submit. So, the whole, but the whole system that we've had for years is now no longer valid under these conditions. Nobody slows it down. We, too, have debated in HS over the past two months according to the Bureau's agreement, not according to the current Rules of Procedure. This rebalancing is real today at this point, perhaps even for this month, but the question is whether it will hold water for two months? If we could do best, we'd only have a financial plan for the next month and so on from month to month. What brings us rebalancing is a reduction in the revenues of the state budget in 2020. which are planned at the level of 122 billion kuna. On the other hand, expenditure remains the same. The change in expenditure is only in their purpose or location, everything is now given in the fight against the crown and the consequences of the epidemic, in the fight to preserve jobs. I think what's planned on the spending side is still too rational because we don't need saving right now, the expenditure should be increased, even at the cost of more debt because we have a lot to finance. Let us not just forget the earthquake in Zagreb where the damage has yet to be estimated. The funds provided for by the rebalance for some 100 million kuna for the emergency implementation of the first phase are certainly not enough. She may be able to pass as an initial asset and it would be great if they were actually spent this year, but it certainly isn't enough. For the past two months and last month, this tall home has voted the most in favour of a whole set of laws that have fiscal effects in the direction of easing the epidemic and its consequences. And it's now embedded in this rebalancing. All these laws have been voted unanimously so I don't think there's any obstacle to this rebalancing going in that direction to be supported in this way. In the debate, I'd like to highlight a few things. The government has come up with lightning and implemented funds to preserve jobs of nearly 7 billion kuna, and this has resulted in more representatives in their debate today. I think it was meant to go quickly, broadly, with liberal criteria. The majority of EU countries went after the subsidisation of workers' salaries at a certain percentage, but the support was exclusively designed to support employers, not as support for job conservation. And here I may see a slip, one mistake that took place at speed, because then it wouldn't have happened if the workers didn't know that their employer had received that support. Then it wouldn't happen if an employer who could pay the difference between the paid support and the contracted salary didn't do it. What are we going to do with that kind of treatment? What about abuses of paid support? This may not be a question for the finance minister at the moment, but it certainly is a matter for the government because the government must find a solution to the problem. Because these measures went to the public and to the Croatian Parliament and were accepted as such to save jobs, but if the worker in certain cases did not get any of it, if he didn't even know about it, then the intention of the Government was, then the Parliament's intention to support it was played out. And that should be determined. At the end of the debate, I would like to point out that a public call is being issued these days for municipal and social infrastructure and for agriculture and for small OPGs, for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in areas which are underdeveloped and which are historically inhabited by members of national minorities. The government's respected programme, met and respected operational programmes for national minorities, also adopted by the government. And so it's supported by this rebalance, the funds in the rebalance are secured, though, slightly less than last year, but insignificantly and minimally, and the calls are gone. The measure is good, affected, accepted, recognised by the users and we expect this year when calls, when the deadlines for application expire, that there will be a lot of applications, a lot of stakeholders, and that these measures will help those who are users of these support, and we can absolutely believe that they are going to counter the consequences of the coronary pandemic. Here, so much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206286	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, a club representing GLAS. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206287	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues Bačić, therefore, we have this exceptional situation that we have colleagues and that Bacic is our only colleague with the vice president. And on your way out. But let's go back to the topic of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the rebalancing of our budget, and maybe this is the opportunity to call some things and the real name, so we have choices around the corner. In the context of these elections, Minister Maric has certainly hurried with this budget rebalance. The budget rebalancing caused something that none of us had in mind at the beginning of the year, and even less when we discussed the budget for this year. Corona, when we discussed the budget for this year, so it's just somewhere, I think on December 12th of last year, the Coronavirus and Wuhan mentioned, that something that was very far away in Europe and something that was in Europe came very quickly to Croatia. And by calling things the right name, Croatia has decided to protect people's health first and foremost. We had one of the strictest measures, and we had a Staff that we trusted and respected all those measures about and distance and everything that was determined. Behind that is said, let's keep our jobs. When it comes to keeping jobs, I could agree with my predecessors, that it was the help of employers, and about keeping jobs we'll see what happens. So what the government and the ruling party have decided, has decided that this summer we will have elections and we have no dilemmas, we have to go into budget rebalancing because we know that about 4 months is of one technical government, 2 months when the Parliament will not work until the elections and then 2 months until everything that needs to be established is established. What we really need to say, the coronaryvirus is something unexpected, for it could not be prepared, we could not prepare ourselves, what time will go on, it will open up the following problems that everyone who is dealing with this at both Europe and the world level, and say in the context of Croatia that it is really and certain shutting down certain jobs, to expect, is also another wave, I have now read somewhere that about the largest wave will be in January 2021. But it's fear, it's fear of the unknown. We're fighting the coronary virus like we're in the 19th century, so without, to reduce our contacts to the least possible measure. What, when it comes to this rebalancing, which is to say, is that in the fall in some new composition of this Parliament and in some new story, we will be welcomed by real rebalancing with real numbers and with real condition and with all the consequences this coronary virus will cause, but as the earthquake in Zagreb has shown the extent of the damage that Mr. Mayor has done to the city of Zagreb for many years, so this coronaryvirus also points to some other things that we have to take care of. So we have to take care of some of the things we've been fooling ourselves about so far. Unemployment has been reduced by people going to emigration, our budget gaps have actually filled our country's apartmentisation and tourism beyond every reasonable measure. Slowly but surely we've turned into a land of cafes and apartments for rent. I don't mind all of it together, but these are not activities that can be the basis of a healthy developed economy. The decline in industrial production... months before the crown, importing food, we have raw agricultural land, we have a shortage of any advanced industry that brings good jobs for high added value, we're a country for educated and there's no place of business, no need. These are the real causes of our problems. This coronary virus has actually shown the real causes of our problems and therefore it is no wonder that when everyone talks about Croatia they say that economic development will be more difficult than in some other countries, it will last longer than in many other countries. We should think about that day later. We should try to think about what kind of country we are and what kind of Croatia we want to be in 2030 or 2050, which is the economy that we are going to develop. We can all agree here whether we sit on the left, right or middle with two things, that we should try to develop agriculture to be as self-sufficient as possible. Self-sufficient in terms of food, we will never be fully, it must be clear to us, but to be as clear as possible and to try as possible to rely on tourism as possible because when the first year does not occur when there is no tourism, all the problems we can open up. So the things we can all agree on are the things we should agree on. So let's remember how quickly we agreed on some things that were connected to the crown laws, we went to make a quick deal because we were afraid because we had pictures of Italy where people in black bags put in trucks, these are pictures that were in front of us in that fear we said okay, let's go with some measures. As good or as bad as they are, we'll see. We're pointing and we're going to point at two things. The first thing we pointed out, which is support was basic to those who, because of the state's decision, couldn't work. That support has turned into someone else's. Don't let it happen to us that the people who took the support for the jobs will pay off the profits, only then will everyone laugh directly at us. The second thing we pointed to, and I'm using this opportunity once again, when it was a start for credits then those who took it should have had the opportunity, that when they started paying off the loan to start where they left off. I've had a chance to hear one of the people in the banking sector who said, well, no, we don't charge people interest, we're going to charge at the moment when they're going to start realising their loan again, I mean what we're talking about. So we didn't do anything. And then we have a situation which is a special situation in the City of Zagreb. At the most severe moment when the crown was the City of Zagreb was struck by an earthquake. The earthquake was 5.5 times the same thing when you take the same 1880 earthquake was 6.5. Within three days of that earthquake in 1880, the headship of the City of Zagreb met, decisions were made, the City of Zagreb was such a small town on the edge of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the result of the earthquake was a strong economic activity that was launched by the City of Zagreb, which the City of Zagreb quickly produced a respectable work of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. The best builders were building the city as we know it today, I must remind you that, let's say August Sheno at that time was a city senator and he got pneumonia helping and injured in the earthquake, but also activating himself in terms of the economy and as a consequence of pneumonia and embolism August Shenoa died as a result of his earthquake-related activity. Since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb 22nd so in 10 days it will be two months, today it is about 50 days since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and now when we compare this budget rebalance in the budget rebalancing we have an item of 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and we have an item of 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency Fund. That's 141 million kuna at a government meeting last week, said it was meant for exactly what. It's designed for recovery, it's designed for dental walls that have collapsed both for condensation water heaters and chimney recovery. All of a sudden, the theme of the earthquake in Zagreb was the need to obtain condensation boilers and resuscitation of chimneys. All this stuff that you're coming to this Parliament so you can't come or all of this you see in the City of Zagreb and all of these activities that are and that you go down one street so you can't go through, the citizens are doing it on their own. Citizens do not have the right information about what the state will do together with the City of Zagreb. Rehabilitation or new reconstruction of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake simply must be a state project. The resolution minister came out to the public about two, three weeks ago and said that the recovery would take years, as he will, said the estimated value is about 42 to 43 billion kuna, and we in this budget have 100 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Construction and 41 million kuna on the item of the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, which speaks of the intention of accessing the problem. If the problem was to be treated, the governing body could already be determined at the state level, the law could have been held in public debate, he, I went to check before I dropped here that perhaps there was no public debate in the meantime, so there is no law in the public debate. It's as if Zagreb is forgotten by all. It was as if Zagreb had deliberately forgotten from everyone. Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the sin of inaction is a serious sin. It's a sin that's been going on for 50 days now. So what you're seeing is that the citizens are on their own. But that madness won't end there. This madness will end, the question is how, but at this point we know that there was one Commission of Stats who was reviewing the facilities, so another commission will be set up that will once again in front of the city to check what the facilities look like, what happened here, and the law on reconstruction and the third commission is foreseen. So 3 different commissions will review the damage that was done on the facilities. In doing so, I think first and foremost of the buildings they use, therefore, whether they are family houses or multi-state houses used by our citizens. I assume the state of its building has been examined. I guess, for example, the Ministry of Finance has been reviewed and it's been established around what's the damage, which is the deadlines of the recovery, how to go into rehab, both from the aspect and the statics, from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage, which is some kind of a small cost, which means financially, I guess it's been examined. I think even in that rebalancing process that's gonna happen in the fall, we're gonna have to take this seriously. Indeed, the fact that the city of Zagreb and we who live here and who we are, and we live in those parts of the city where, or in buildings where it felt stronger, it's that now that someone is a little louder or a little stronger, you're shaking because you think it's an earthquake, it's one thing. But this is one of the opportunities to be taken. I asked the minister in the replica about the Green Plan because I am absolutely, and we in GLAS are sure that the Green Plan is one of the future, so Croatia has its Green Plan, that it is one of the ways in the future of Croatia. I know that decisions, especially when 27 countries are making themselves difficult, but we should take this earthquake trouble as our chance. Construction as a branch feels the first recession, but the first feels the exit from recession. We had problems, that we didn't have enough labour, that our labour force had to be activated and in construction was somewhere else. All this Coronavirus talk and all this story about the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, we are absolutely sure that all these disasters that have happened to us, we need to turn it into a new value and turn it into something that we can really use and start with a serious construction swing in the city of Zagreb. So we really see this rebalancing as a pre-election document that is needed to hold elections, and the real rebalancing will come in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206288	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206289	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Excuse me. We can call this budget a short breath budget and a short-sighted budget. Why is that? The budget is short of breath because the ruling parties have repeatedly declared that electoral legitimacy is needed to make key and serious decisions. In other words, this rebalance only maintains public finances for a few months. That fact was acknowledged by the minister himself in the opening speech when he claimed that the main objective of the adoption of this rebalancing was to maintain expenditure on the originally planned amount. It will be provided in less part through redistribution within the ministries, but in order to settle the 27 billion kuna deficit, it is clear that it will need to be in debt and increase the total public debt. We can say that this rebalancing marks a financial message that we can interpret for pre-election purposes because it does not answer key questions concerning the existence of many Croatian citizens, and most of all the poorest. It is not at all comforting when the minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia declares that the payment of pensions will not come into question. It's clear in itself because if that happens, then it's quite certain that the whole economy is at stake, the only thing we could expect is bankruptcy. Especially since pension funds will also help state finances with 16.5 billion kuna. There is also an announced EU aid of 9 billion kuna. By adding these two amounts, we can argue that we are halfway through solving our problems. Looking at things this way, it's all expensive and it doesn't look tragic, but there's always some kind of but, and here's exactly that "but" key. As I have pointed out, this rebalancing is also shortsighted. He doesn't have a serious view of the future. He didn't define the direction we wanted to go. To us, the condition of the old normal, to use the words of the ruling, is to be seen as something that we have to pursue again, and that's just to be fatal. Not only are we shortsighted, but our glasses have slipped deep into our noses. The Croatian economy has deep and structural problems. That's what the minister said. When exports grow, industrial production grows significantly both imports and vice versa. It is therefore important to highlight 3 things that are important to take into account structural problems and start implementing the necessary reforms. First, it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship in a way that stimulates all who have good ideas and development plans, while at the same time controlling incentives. Public procurement as a symbol of corruption should be extremely controlled. That support control is important we see on the last payments of support for the preservation of jobs. According to field information, the controls are missing. The money was paid, and the contracts weren't signed. Support was also used by businesses above the fourth-instance ownership of the Republic of Croatia, although these rules are not allowed. We have destroyed many strategic branches and businesses that employ a large number of workers and create an export product. Secondly, entrepreneurs are exposed to a high tax burden and a large number of parafiscal charges, while on the other hand, public administration reform and local self-government are delayed or not implemented. Public administration must be cheap, efficient and fast, and service to citizens and entrepreneurs. This crisis has shown that system information can only be accelerated if there is a will. Furthermore, instead of building a functional JLS system with clearly defined tasks and responsibilities for municipalities and cities in accordance with their fiscal capacities, the status quo is offered because this corresponds to the currently partial party interests and does not want to move from a dead end. Let's just look at our inefficientness in withdrawing funds from EU funds. We have 428 municipalities and 127 towns + 20 counties + City of Zagreb. We just have two options. Either apply all of them to joint work towards the development of the Republic of Croatia or move towards a serious reconstruction. Third, health, education, pension and other large systems require serious interventions to become functional. Infunctionality causes inefficiencies and preconditions for pointless spending of public money and even suffering in individual's own pockets. At the time of this crisis, the health system has stopped in a large part of the diagnostics, a review of primary health care and a series of non-emergency operating procedures. The rebalancing said that the costs of the health system have increased and that health care workers are not adequately paid. Apparently, the cost went up due to the supply of masks. That's weird. Personally, I think the masks will fall and soon after the election, when HDZ leaves power. Our education system in these difficult times thanks to valuable teachers and teachers, well that I don't end up shutting down, and I'm going to mention the ministry's efforts, has managed to maintain such a distance teaching. And what does the government do? Now he takes away what they were promised after the exhausting strike. Although teachers and students want to return to school, they are prevented by inaccuracies and inexhaustible instructions. So, for example. The instructions specify classrooms with terraces and separate toilets, and this could be written by someone who has never been to Croatian schools. So what happens now? Like in the wild west. The kids are taking over part by piece of the school's territory. It's not a system, it's a verse. And finally mention the pension system. It should be noted that the ruling rejected a reasonable increase in the price for supplementary health insurance and do not want to discuss resolving the issue of family pensions. We'll deal with it right after the election. To conclude, the rulings only have in mind the choices they want to hold as soon as possible on the wave of success of the national headquarters in suppressing the epidemic. As a result, the headquarters lost significantly on its expertise and got a lot of foreigning. And since the elections are closer, of course, that Croatian citizens are not going to be told what is specifically planned to be done, this short-term rebalancing for election purposes has been prepared. We won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206290	Thank you, too. A little intervention, so we're moving on. Next is counterpart Rezimir Varda, Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206291	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have tried to analyze these several hundred pages normally, but I am not an expert as our fellow MPs, former finance ministers, to enter all items, and neither is it actually my duty. However, what I have succeeded through that analysis is to understand it next. As regards the draft amending and supplementing the budget, the State budget for 2020 Looking at the plan, the income plan and the expenditure plan through the financing account, it is clear to me that we need to formally resolve the situation that occurred after we made decisions in this assembly regarding this crown crisis. So, formally these 25, or I don't know how many billions of kunas we have to and legally regulate in relation to the State Budget Act. I am pleased that the end line did not touch the expenditure because this means that we continue to invest and all that was actually planned in the state budget for 2020. But it's clear to me that we have to go into lending, borrowing loans to cover everything we've planned and everything that's come from the crown of the virus. However, what I actually expected in the 2021 and 2022 projections, which I did not find except that part relating to the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in 2020. Of some 141 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Environmental Protection Fund, to say the least, and these are chimneys, these boilers, gnomes, etc. Of course I expected, given the situation that the 50th day has passed since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, that there will be some talk about, in projections for 2021 and 2022. Because on the basis of the fact that I didn't find anything, I could conclude the citizens of the City of Zagreb that as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, I'm not going to say, in this case, about the government as a whole, as if there was no earthquake. Why is that, I don't know, but I think it was necessary to give at least a detailed written explanation for the 2021 and 2022 projections. If we could do something in the projections for those years, I'm not sure I'm a respected minister because there's no law. The Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb after an earthquake that should allow not only the city of Zagreb but also rural areas and other districts affected by the earthquake, the efficient and quality restoration of family houses in rural areas and historical urban areas of the Lower City, the Upper City and the City and the Kaptola. Why is there no law? I had little information with the representatives of the city of Zagreb in this committee at the ministry or at the Government on the text of the law, yesterday there was a meeting, the representatives of the city of Zagreb were not even invited. Apparently, according to some information again, such a bill proposal, unknown, goes into e-consultation and reportedly very short, 3 to 5 days later, will come to the Parliament. According to my information, it's a bill that has structural problems that won't even be able to fix the amendments. Why? Well, because I don't think there's any renewal if it's run by politics and if it's run specifically by the Department of Construction. We would have to establish the correct, secure sources of funding for reconstruction that will last 10, 15, maybe 20 years. Which can be restored, sources of funding, we need to make a decision when we make the law. If I don't know, I'm saying it by heart, if that's a certain percentage of the price of fuel, water, I don't know what it is, but these sources need to be safe. Secondly, if I said politics can't lead to reconstruction, then we have an example of Dubrovnik. But we have an example of Gunja. Then it is necessary to establish an institution that will run this reconstruction with safe sources of funding and with an interdisciplinary group of people from architects, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Artists, Ministry of Culture, etc., who will be leading the continuing reconstruction of the Croatian capital, I repeat with safe sources of funding. If that is not the case, if such a law that does not provide for it comes to the Assembly for discussion, this club will think a lot about whether we will also support this rebalancing budget in relation to the projections and whether we will support such a Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206292	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today is the rebalancing that should answer the question of how to help the economy at the entrance so far is the biggest crisis from which we will recover very long and slowly. The scope of the crisis will only eventually be seen when we see what happens to the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. I expect that in June there will be the first big wave of redundancies in the economy and in autumn, probably that number of 400,000 unemployed will be exceeded and we will reach a large number of people will be unemployed so we will be larger than that figure that was there around 2000. We know that the 2008 and 2009 crisis was a major crisis but it's like a little kindergarten compared to what's coming to us. Reported earthquakes in financial markets will cause tsunamis in economies and small ones such as the Croatian economy, will stick to the wall on their tails. Especially countries such as Croatia that are consumed by corruption. There are the biggest victims to be ordinary, honest citizens and citizens who live very modestly, and that is the vast majority. Tourism will not recover to these levels at which it has been and it will definitely undermine what the government is very modestly suggesting and their quasi-sacrifice forecasts have only one purpose and this is a promotion before the elections and are pure regret and deception of citizens and citizens. This government doesn't think at all what the consequences of their policies will be. If, by any chance, this first wave of pandemic corona pandemic coincides with the second wave, which is certain, it will lead to even greater problems in the economy, it will be worse than the Titanic scenario. It was once your coalition partner who was then in opposition, now talking about it, telling colleagues from HDZ. The current rebalance increases the public debt from 73% to 86.7% of GDP, and from this rebalancing it is quite evident that the government is not ready for this first scenario of the pandemic corona, let alone for the second. But it doesn't matter because the consequences of these policies will pay for citizens by falling standards. If this government were still considering improving all Croatian citizens and citizens then, in this budget rebalancing, they would see certain indications of how to react to the crisis that will affect us. It will affect both the left and right sides of this assembly, will affect all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. From this rebalancing, we clearly don't see it. Now is the chance to make changes in this rebalancing process that we should have made in previous years, but obviously it wasn't for that, there was no courage. This government doesn't mean thousands of private sector workers from production who are going to lose their jobs, obviously they're not the future of this country. The government primarily thinks of thousands of HDZ arrests that are in the pockets of Croatian citizens and citizens. They've proven that in the last 5 years. when they were in power, the authorities in which Karamarko and Plenkovic ruled. The government wants to withdraw the real, if this government wanted to make the right moves to save the Croatian economy, let's say it would abolish membership, compulsory membership in the HGK and the HGK turn into a real external trade, export chamber such as all those countries that want to increase exports and presence in international markets. Why doesn't the government dare do that? For the reason that the HGK is networked with HDZ's earrings. This government is on its way with the help of citizens who have lost their jobs by throwing money out of helicopters, and now it's a bit of a head breaker, we said it's not right, that it's not good, that these money was supposed to go to citizens, so those who lost their jobs because their companies or their trades were closed. At the time, it was claimed that everything was under control, as Minister Aladrovic said today, it is not natural for a company that pays dividends to receive support from the state. Well, that's what's in the taste of all the support they need to get those who need it. The one who pays the dividend... Support is not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only that, we said that we should be careful who is paid because this is the state support that falls under EU law and there is no jurisdiction of the state inspectorate, there is no jurisdiction of the tax administration, there is a minister, there is a power of the HZZ that has no capacity at all to control all those who are given support. And according to some data, they were not denied today by Minister Aladrovic, 7 out of 10 support found irregularities. I note that 6.5 billion kunas will be given to entrepreneurs to preserve jobs. A huge sum, if 7 out of 10 were given incorrectly, then we can count on what would happen because Minister Aladrovic announced that those who received illegal support would return it. And how will they repay, who will return, who will establish it? I expect that we will have great problems with the EU and as far as I know, the ARPA is already wild on HZZ because it is obvious that the support has been paid by hand and hat without any control. I asked the minister today, if we gave money to large companies, tens of millions of kunas, was the government ready to enter the ownership structure of these companies? The minister didn't answer, but it's something that makes sense. If we give money to preserve jobs, these big companies will continue to work, why wouldn't the state have part of the ownership structure? The company when it recovers, the part that the state has in, so the company's owns the stock market, is sold and the money returns to the budget. If a great German, who has a much stronger, stronger economy than we do, enters the ownership structure of the Lufthansa, why wouldn't the Croatian state enter the ownership structures of the companies it gives money to? But obviously there's no such thing as will. We don't know why, for what reasons, maybe someday we'll find out why the government doesn't want to enter that process. It would be very good, I hope Minister Maric does, too, to announce to whom the support was paid, and who paid the dividend. This has the opportunity to do so, but it is obvious that Minister Aladrovic and the people in charge of the payment of support have not done their job well if this should not have happened to them. One more thing that could have been resolved by now, and it is moving forward with the changes that are necessary for the matter of privileged pensions. Citizens are very sensitive to privileged pensions, especially the issue of defence pensions, and I am absolutely sure that defenders would have nothing to do with solidarity with citizens in that part and to equalise their rights with other citizens. It is now an opportunity to correct that injustice. However, I am not sure that Minister Medved, who is the parent and sponsor of various associations that celebrate "For Home Ready" and who want the situation to remain this way, will want those large pensions to be equal with pensions that are receiving citizens. Here I call on Minister Medved to be honorable and to correct the injustice against Croatian citizens, as well as the honorable defenders who want to stop Stigmatisation as those who have fought for their privileges, not for the freedom of the country. Now it's an extraordinary opportunity to do it, but I'm sure HDZ won't do it because it's the electoral body and it's the people who choose HDZ. As far as the health system is concerned, the health system has suffered a great sacrifice at the moment as regards the crown epidemic itself and these 100 million kuna rebalances that are currently in the system, certainly not enough to correct all the problems we have in health care. With this, Minister Maric himself said today that last year we ended up with 8 billion kunas of debt in the health system, during the crown of the crisis, these debts were even more and it is clear that there are not enough and there will not be enough funding in the HZZ, because there is a reduction in contributions, a reduction in payments, a payment of contributions, therefore, and there are big, big cuts waiting for us, and in the rebalancing of the budget there is nothing and there is nothing, we see nothing. That 100 million kuna is not something that will help the system. However, what the Government could do, which is, to touch certain privileges, and I see there the part that is related to the Vatican Treaties because I think, as far as the Vatican Treaties are concerned, it's absolutely certain that they can't change without the other side agreeing to it, but on the other hand, the budget pays off the large funds of the church. And I am quite sure that the government has started talking to church dignitaries that this part of the budget is not being paid or reduced at the moment is the situation as it is, it would probably also get a positive answer from the church because the church should also be solidarity with our citizens who have lost their jobs and who will lose their jobs. I note that the first, first big wave is expected in six months, and in the fall we will break the number of 400,000, 400,000 unemployed. How much of that number at this point no one will know. Tourism will probably be something, but not as it used to be, and this is quite certain budget rebalancing first in a row, it should have been before, at the beginning of the crown crisis, however, obviously that HDZ is in a hurry to vote and wished to have, in those two months that are now ahead of us, funds to pay the salaries and therefore he is also the one who is very strange. In all other countries, if you have a decrease in income, you also have a reduction in expenditure. In this you have a decrease in income, and expenses remain the same. We'll be in charge. Yeah, now we can get in charge because the situation is favourable, but it's a question of what we're going to do, what happens in the fall, whether we're going to be in charge of what interest. But at this point, the HDZ is only important to bring budget rebalancing and to go to elections, it will have little problems as I see with my coalition partners from Milan Bandic's party because if the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is not passed, I think the elections will have problems in the City of Zagreb, so I expect that we will have this law here very quickly, because it is something that we owe the citizens of Zagreb. This rebalancing that goes towards purchasing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this is not a crisis-responsive rebalance, nor is this a rebalancing that will lead to us going through this crisis as easily as possible. It's happening again in 2008 and 2009. when HDZ was also in power, when we were hit by a major crisis that would be a kindergarten according to what awaits us now. HDZ didn't manage it then, it doesn't work out now, because obviously it's easier for them to rule when there's money than when the crisis comes. Well, let's just remember, then, the senader said the state was in a banana. I think that at this point we are even more in a banana than we were then and this rebalancing will be voted on, but it is not a solution for what citizens need, and that is to go through a crisis with as few victims as possible, and the biggest victims will be submitted by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who will lose their jobs, so we expect there to be over 400,000 unemployed in the winter. This rebalancing doesn't give an answer to how to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206294	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is a debate between colleagues Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206295	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the rebalancing that everyone said, otherwise you wouldn't be if we weren't in this situation. In fact, we are giving a more outline of what has hit us all and we realize that it is necessary absolutely to take measures not only of those taken but still to take action and put the economy first with the safety of our citizens. These are the two basic things that we all here and, in general, at all levels of politics and local level should be dealt with. Security and the economy and connect those two, which apparently was incompatible, were we stopping the economy for safety reasons. I'm not going to enter into this issue of elections at all, I've said something in my free speech that someone here says in front of the government that because of this situation we're going towards a decision to extend this term to another year of today, I don't think anyone would come out alive and it would be a scandal. On the other hand, if someone in front of the government says that we're going to make a choice if they're up for it, then it's not good, because right now it doesn't fit the opposition, so maybe a little bit later when it's more appropriate or when security conditions come in, that's what I think everybody's the same thing, it has to be the same thing to everyone. And we won't support any election, even if it's just so declarative, if we disband it doesn't mean there has to be an automatic election because if there's no conditions for the election, there won't be. I don't know who dares endanger the citizens. So, that's quite hypothetical, but what I do know is that citizens don't have time to wait and decisions have to be made and that the government has to make it that has full legitimacy. Because again on the other hand, we can't get that everything is normal, that we owe Croatia, that we make decisions, that we negotiate without legitimacy. In recent months, the government can't afford sheep and money. Now that I've summed it up, I actually see that it would be a good thing if it were an election, but when it suits the opposition. Well, maybe not right away, until this is stabilized a little bit, but at nine months, that'll still give it a better chance. That's not how it works. I don't remember until now, but I don't remember in this 30-year-old almost history when we went to election by law enforcement. Maybe someone here can correct me here from the elderly, and I don't think it's ever happened here that we've been going to elections by running out of mandate on its own that he hasn't disintegrated what he's about to say on the 16th of this year. So far, most of them have been disbanding the parliament and thus directed the decision towards the elections were they in 2000, 2003, in spite of the changes in the system in 2000, and we know why they were not the elections, 2003, 2007, 2015, and then again 2016, etc. And that's how it's been. And now was it more or later or later that it was speculating about it. The security of the economy, the point, and we owe it to the citizens. This rebalancing, what I said in the replica, I'm glad on the expenditure side, I said it two months ago that we should not succumb to one part of the consummation of consumption, at least a state that makes up 20% of GDP, but we should actually increase it, systematically, meaningfully. I don't mean spending on employees, but they're reducing the amount if I'm not wrong about about 300 million, no pardon 391 million 391.7 million less for employees, so it's not something spectacular, we're just going to go through percentages by every ministry, but it's exactly that investment maintenance, the renewal and all those investments where there's added value, and we're starting the economy that classic mini deal whatever they call it, I don't think we can stop that's 20% of GDP. The other 20% is consumption. We're saying that we expect a drop of something below 10% in this year's GDP, what's the main reason for that is consumption, so we say that one of the parameters where we can observe the same by consumption is VAT, most importantly, it decreases by 22%, VAT revenues by 12.1 billion kuna. Income from profit tax by 30% 2.8, income from special taxes and excise duties by 16% or 2.7, and we have now corrected and increased. By the way, they've even increased revenues in this lock down from excise duties to cigarettes but not because I think they're more consummated than because they're less carried across borders. And the revenue from contributions has also been reduced by 15% and 3.8 billion kuna, respectively. So it's obviously going down. That's how we react. The basic reaction was to find funds by borrowing, so in projections, we've increased practically to double what planned borrowings are if I'm not wrong about which ones it's supposed to be, I think somewhere from 30 to 60 billion planned borrowing incomes. I'm talking about borrowings from 26.8 to 63 more than double. Why? Now here they say we're in debt, etc., so there's a lot of suggestions that we've proposed to give to everyone, throw money out of what kind of wonders, planes, balloons, helicopters I don't know what's not heard here, give everybody a hand and a hat because it's nice to hear, people will be found somewhere, recognized and someone will say see this care about me, absolutely clear. I think what he's saying from the field is that this non-payment measure and the non-refundable 3,250 per 4,000 kuna has gotten that people have stayed to work and it's got its effects and that's why we've singled out practically 4.5 billion kuna is scheduled, according to this budget a total of 5 billion. I asked what about the EUR, because I am neither a Eurofil as regards currency nor a Kunofil, I am a citizen if we talk like that, so what is in the citizens' interest is actually the primary goal of all of us should be, without some nationalist neglect that I must say so and pretending who prefers Croatia and beats a stronger heart. And it's good to hear that we've met all the conditions, and the Master's criterion is that.../incomprehensible/... looking at the aggregate level can be discussed, so it stays the way it is. What also concerned me and what I'm commenting on is the export of services, thinking the most about tourism decline of 70% is assumed, that that's what we said 20% of GDP is tourism and we're very dependent on this tourism, not through direct income from taxis, etc., residence fees but also the indirect through increased consumption which then comes with us where we use and sell our products of course not to the extent that we want foreign tourists. Now that and the hidden source, the export is not, is not, will not be possible to realize. So that's where a really challenging season awaits us. But according to these projections, recovery is expected if I can read well 9.4% of GDP growth is expected already in the 4th quarter, it is not listed, but by the logic of things it can predict from these papers. So, what was also a speech, I'm just going to relate to employment, I have to say that I'm not quite clear about it, says new employment and the admission of officials and tenants to indefinite and specific times is prohibited. If they are provided with funds for staff expenditure from general income and income, therefore not if they are from projects or from HZZO funds, it is now a wider story and says the exception that a minister can be granted. We have already been banned from employment since 2010, according to the project model, yes, 2 for 1, yes, otherwise not. But somehow I don't feel like we have fewer employees compared to 2010, but I'm going to ask the Ministry of Administration, hopefully give me an answer on the movement of the number of employees in the state administration. And it says about the salaries for employees, something that is important again for the next government to enter the trade unions negotiations with the unions, so it says a reduction of expenditure for employees at the government 5.2%, the Ministry of Finance 5.8%, the Ministry of Defence 1.7, the Ministry of the Interior 1.3, that's not clear to me, Ministry of Croatian Defence 0.6, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts 5.2, Ministry of State Property 6.9, Ministry of Culture 5.4, Ministry of Agriculture 3.5, Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds 3.4, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 5.3, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning 8.1, Ministry of Environment and Energy 3,9, Ministry of Education 0.3 reduction, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Tourism 20.5, Ministry of Tourism 20.3, administration of 0.3, Demography, Justice 1.9 and the Ministry of Health in its divisions provides an increase of 2.7%, which is logical in all terms. So obviously, here some planning of the increase we agreed on, signed and originally not secured in the budget, are not now and that it will be something that awaits us because we had negotiations and those strikes of the union after the budget and we are not in the meantime if memory does not cheat or have rebalancing. So these increases are obviously gone and I say more or less everyone except for some exceptions that are not clear to me, too, recorded the decline in staff expenditure, whether it's due to the lack of overtime or not, but mostly it's all percentages. As for the Law on Reconstruction, I would like him to be here in this rebalancing although his funding is provided for by the Solidarity Fund and other European funds, therefore not only from my own revenue or budget, I am glad that it is not only waiting for laws but also for other fronts to immediately bring fire-fighting measures and here above all I am thinking about these almost 100 million kunas secured for the replacement and repair of chimneys, or 41 million from the position of the fund for the purchase of water heaters or condensation boilers, because it is practically necessary to ensure people that if we do not already have colder time but that they have at least sanitary water and some minimum. It's also going to propose parallel financing for home design with those yellow and red tags, that it's also coming out, that it's already going to do something, but the general law on reconstruction, the roof law that needs to be decided by dozens and dozens, over 40 billion damages, is not in this rebalancing and cannot be done until there's no law, it's absolutely clear, when we adopt it, then we can hope to secure the funds, so I expect to put that procedure, as far as I know the law, the bill is almost last week, he's committed to the prime minister and we wait for him to enter, go through the government procedure and be put into public debate and be put on the government as soon as possible, because we recognize that it shouldn't be passed overnight, but that it should be brought to, absolutely, and whether it's left to any other government or not, I think that my position is not to bring it to be better, but to the better, not to the best, but to the night. So, as far as the macroeconomic framework is concerned, we have mentioned that, in general, although I am glad that this projection of the reduction of 9.4 GDP is more negative than what the European Commission has given us with more than 7%, but I think it is important that we have left the expenditure that we are focusing precisely on that consumption and generation and consumption, and therefore economic activity, and that this is a good direction that we have not been reducing despite the decline in revenue over 26 billion, we have remained at the same level of expenditure, we have only redistributed and we have told what is our priority, and there is also a minister who has the support of our own, that this is a way to keep going, to see that this spilling to these extra budget users, so that they will go to this accelerated investment cycle, everything that I can immediately start and what was planned this year and the next year to start this step, and that way, and that we are going to get back to the crisis that way we are now, where we are going to a lot of financial crisis. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206296	Thank you, too. This concludes the debates on behalf of clubs, we continue with an individual debate, only technical notice to all MPs and MPs, individual debate takes 5 minutes. Comrade Babic, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last November, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget for 2020 in accordance with then defined macroeconomic indicators on GDP growth in Croatia with projected revenue and expenditure almost on a balanced budget. Meanwhile, in the world, both Europe and Croatia have significantly changed the circumstances conditioned by the global pandemic of the virus and the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, and this budget has been a practical result, i.e. a better said result of these events that have significantly conditioned a reduction in economic activity, which resulted in a resulting clear reduction in the revenues of the state budget and expenditures which could not have been foreseen at the time when we were making the budget here in HS. This significant decrease in revenue of around 25 billion kuna is clearly defined in this rebalancing. But what needs to be singled out is the fact that unforeseeable expenditures that are paid monthly primarily for, as support for job conservation, employers' liquidity and for maintaining business activities in the Republic of Croatia and that this is a significant amount as it says in the explanation of around 7 billion kuna, but in spite of that fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance have, within their own redistributions, maintained that level of expenditure of the state budget, so that the deficit of the state budget would amount to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. I am that this fact of reducing business activities defines this macroeconomic framework in the Republic of Croatia, which this year, as we heard from the government and the ministry, will be 9.4% of GDP. But what it says about the exact estimates this government has shown over the past 3.5 years. that these estimates, always at the end of the year, and at the end of the year, the basis of the data of the State Statistics Institute, proved to be correct, even moreover, the government entered this rebalancing with real mathematical economic indicators, which is more so when we see that the European Commission is planning a lower GDP decline of around 0.3% of GDP and, on the other hand, GDP growth in the coming year, larger than the one the government, the government predicted for the next year, which is 6.5%. So far, during the club debate, I have heard numerous objections from the opposition and how they would act in this situation. I have to say that the government, and while not focusing too much on the work of the CZ Staff, is at this point not in the focus of my exposure above all, I am here focusing on the government's response to the many measures, the economic measures that we have taken in two packages, both in that March and in that April package, and in this May package where, where we are planning and already defined around EUR 100 million of reduction, and tax or parafiscal burdens on the one hand, and on the other hand, in negotiations with trade unions, retain this level of budget that is sustainable and which is good and acceptable. And the government of these measures, these two, with this, two packages of measures, I intend, and I am convinced that they will succeed, manage to preserve the economy when coming out of this epidemic that is more painless, which is easier to continue with, the businessmen continue with their business activities. So I have to say that I'm surprised that in a certain way, imputing the government that in forwarding the support for the preservation of jobs, it should have entered into the ownership of certain employers of economic operators because as a result, it might have been that total number, about 600,000 or something less, I wouldn't be counting now, I wouldn't be guessing, but I believe that a number of employers would find out that they're going to be owned for that part. If they were then, I didn't even notice that we had five minutes, so that they would be taken into possession, that way they would have left their employees to HZZ. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206298	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206299	Dear Representative Bačić, I have a question for you, and this question is asked by many people involved in the transportation of passengers, especially when it comes to buses driving tourists. The fact is, the government banned tourists from entering the country, banned them from working on the other side, and on the third hand, the Leasing Houses continued to send credit rates to collect or rate leases, whatever they call it. I wonder why the government doesn't do anything about it. So, people have lost any income, and wars come at the rate of interest. By my judgment, the way you treat carriers is unserious because these people are going to find themselves in large financial delinquency, so I'm interested in your opinion and to tell me maybe the government has really decided to do something to help them, I'm interested in your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206300	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, the government did not prohibit tourists from entering, but closed their borders in this pandemic of the state's coronary. Therefore, we and if we had allowed anyone to arrive in the Republic of Croatia this arrival is not possible because the states that would be... and to the tourist markets because of their problems because they also close borders and traffic, the crossing across borders has been stopped. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for lying and credit at all, you're wrong. Both the government and the CNB and, with, with, with financial institutions aligned, agreed a moratorium that could be up to 12 months and which, the length of the moratorium, is agreed by both the bank and the client. And sometimes it's also in the interest of the client not to be 12 months, but to be shorter and depending on the position of the client, the moratorium is also agreed on shorter interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206302	Thank you. Dear representative Mrsic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206303	Dear colleague Bacic, you are trying to explain inexplicably. If one Germany that has an economy much stronger than we, which has also given its workers millions of euros, owns the structure of Lufthansa and other companies to which it has also delivered millions of euros, if the Croatian state has given 20 or 30 million kunas to certain companies, does not want to enter the ownership structure, in order to one day return those money back to the budget again and use it for something else, then something does not make sense to me. Otherwise, your Minister Aladrovic wonders today and says it is not natural for someone who pays dividends and bonuses to receive support and received support from each other. Therefore, you cannot explain why the state would not enter the ownership structure of the company in which 30, 40 or 50 million kuna will land today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206304	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you should have made little arrangements within the opposition with your own performances, as to whom it comes to mind, so it comes out for a pay phone and proposes measures. Let every country take care of its economy, a few years ago there was a specimen that Germany very richly and generously responded to all employers, so Grant gave them billions and billions of euros. We acted differently at the time, and now we've estimated that this is the most favourable way to access employers. Perhaps some employers would if they knew that they were going to be owned, simply thanked and said that we are not to blame for the economic situation, deliver you 50, 100, 200, 300 000 of our employees while the crisis is going on for you at the Employment Service, so you solve it financially with them, and we will continue to maintain those activities, business activities that we can in accordance with the principle of supply and demand. Therefore, every country chooses its own path, I think this time, which Croatia has chosen best for both the state and employers, and what is important for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206306	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206307	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you should not be overly burdened with your colleagues in the opposition because they have agreed with everything for a month, but now for a month they agree with nothing, it just bothers them because I can't believe that this is happening in Croatia in the best possible way. Let's say that Mrsic forgot while he was a minister that was in one time, I think one 420,000 unemployed, and I remember asking him to shut down that counter at the office because it was embarrassing, today the problem is 150,000 with everything we've been through in the past 2 months, so I support what you've said and the fact is that we did especially in public finances, the maximum possible to keep means of employment but that the system of public finances can normally function, and we who have been in local self-government for years, and we see how that works. All I can say about this minister is words of praise for everything he's done to us in the past three years and in this crisis right now. We can say that what we need comes neatly from the state regardless of all problems. Whoever wants to confirm it will, whoever won't, doesn't have to, but it's in the budget, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206308	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join my congratulations to our Deputy Prime Minister of Finance for managing the financial system of the state above all and in this crisis. I failed Mr. Mrsic, I agree with the number of employees at a time when he was Minister of Government and that dial, today there are 160 or 152, 3,000 unemployed, if I'm not mistaken. If it was possible to go to this model that he said before, we would have crossed that 420,000 very quickly and then to get rid of it later, I don't know. And with the right of counterpart Mrsic, he says that Minister Aladrovic expressed his position when it comes to employers who would pay dividends when the state delivered millions and millions of kunas to keep them busy, preserve jobs. Every item needs to be carefully considered, the employer needs to know that if he pays the dividend, that either that part of it must be returned or blocked, there are many ways to act and react but there will be time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206310	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So this budget rebalance is primarily for those who have been playing the unfaithful Tom all along and hitting on each other here, should be put there. So, what does the government have to show for this rebalance? First, if she is aware that due to the coronary virus, due to the disturbances of certain economic activities, the income side will be greatly devastated and at the 3 most important revenues of the state budget, these are so-called. Consumer taxes, VAT and excise duties, contribution to pension, if you look at extra budget users, then you will see a contribution to health insurance and profit tax. So, this is about the revenue side, but what is very important and what has been said very little today is that, despite the fact that there have been some new costs, I think, above all, and this is the highest cost for preserving jobs, the government has decided to ask all budgetary users, insists that every minister, every user, the cost that simply could not have happened because of the reduced activities because of something else, that these budget users reduce their budgets and thus keep the expenditure side at the level as originally planned. And I think it's a great quality. The following thing to be said here, that the government in the talks, by means of agreements, has imported the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensured uninterrupted funding that it is missing in the state budget, and the shortages that outside budget users have and what is very important, this financial sector is preparing for what will come to say, the day after. And today it is later when certain economic activities are to be launched, if these certain economic operators do not have financial resources, they will very hard to do so. And what I said today in my replica, which is what we all have to pay attention to, especially the Government, which is that not only out-of- budget users, but all the companies in which the state is either a minority or a majority owner, have to think about carrying out obligations because simply what the state has any control must not be the indifference generator because that indifference is the most dangerous thing that can happen to us after what we're talking about. And one more thing, reform. So, all of our mouths are full of reform, but no one today has said that the state administration has taken one huge step practically 7 miles in moments when it was practically impossible to function, when citizens via the Internet, through some other electronic means were able to perform their own needs, although it was a long time ago idea when the OIB was being introduced to link the state administration in such a way and that citizens didn't have to go door to door but simply to file a request and then to have the state administration do their part of the job on official duty. Eh, colleagues and colleagues, I'll do two things with that. So when you look at the rebalance of the state budget, when you look at the expenditure side that is the most significant items of pay, pension, health care. Is there anything that can be changed without reform? He can't. And we just have to be aware of that, the ministers who are currently negotiating with the unions are aware of the situation that unions won't give in, no one's asking that with reform someone, some kind of right be reduced. We simply want to pay for those who work, and those who do not work or need to be in the state administration and thus get to a better, more efficient state administration that will benefit everyone, both citizens and economics and everyone. And what I always talk about when I talk about budget rebalancing is out-of- budget users. They are the ones who tomorrow with their financial potential and with their investment and investment from the EU fund, funds can be the generator of that first step in Croatia's economic recovery. Because colleagues and colleagues fall by 9%, 9.5, 10% is not something that won't leave any kind of scar on the RS economy, because we have to be simply aware of that and that's something that doesn't suffer political bickering. It's something that requires the political consent of all of us, to pass the laws to restore that economy, or else we'll tap like the SDP government tampered with 3 years after this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206312	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović's, all right. Then let's go to the replicas first. He's the first respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206313	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to read to you the letter or the announcement of Dragutin Hanžek. It's about a man who's been punished with 8,000 kuna fines because he went in his own tractor to unload the manure on his own field. He says, dear friends, I can't help but tell you about yesterday's announcement of headquarters for the upcoming elections. Mr. Capak's statement that the elections could be made at the time of self-insulation, it completely freaked me out, and then he explains that he was punished for taking the manure into the field. So here I'm asking you, is it normal for you, Mr. Schucker, that at the same time that people in self-insulation can go out to elections without a problem, and on the other hand, that these same people can't unload the fertilizer on their own field and they're being punished for it with 8,000 kuna? Is it economically justified for you, is it in the interest of people, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206314	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You must first know that these two decisions are not at the same time. At the moment when the movement was limited, practically between the settlements because of simply preventing the spread and it is today a confirmation that it definitely gave the results, and what you're talking about now is someone saying something like this along the way but at this point the e-passes have already been abolished, you can travel all over Croatia today that no one is stopping you. Therefore, you speak in two terms at different times. You can't put them at the same time. Because you're talking about someone being able to go to the election you're talking about the future that's gonna happen in a month and a half, two, three, it doesn't matter when, and when you talk about someone who couldn't go to their field, you're talking about the time that practically ended 10 or 15 days ago, and that provision was passed almost two months ago. And it's just a fact, and it's not good to mix and confuse things like that. If there was some awkwardness about those e-passes, it's probably But unfortunately, we're all as divided as we are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206316	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206317	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker when you spoke about the disturbance of certain economic activities in the Republic of Croatia this morning I received some information from our environment, here's SR Germany wondering this morning who will pay the account of the crown virus. They account for over 101 billion in the federal budget, and the drop in GDP is 6.3%, so it's not that small. What they fear is the loss of jobs, or strengthening social giving. So, the coronary virus and what found us, and also about this budget, the rebalancing of the RS budget is nothing new and unusual, no matter how many colleagues today talked about what could be done and how it could be done, but the fact is that not only we but the countries in the environment are actually going through the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206318	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206319	My colleague Babic, first this government said that health and its citizens are first in line. After some indicators were established, after knowledge of the experts, measures on the economy began to relax a little. The government also made it clear that certain activities that, due to the government's provisions, cannot function will help in such a way as to pay wages, etc. So the government has made it clear at the right time what needs to be done. However, now comes the day after which we are expected and the need for social contributions and the need to finance certain activities, and therefore a complete financial sector should at the moment be urged to use the funds available to the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia to be primarily at the service of the economy, to encourage it, as well as the state to finance its commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206320	Thank you very much. He raised his hand, it seems to me for a break, the esteemed representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206321	That's right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I demand a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, the Living Wall, and it concerns our debate on budget rebalancing. In fact, it is unacceptable that the expenditures of the state budget are reduced by not a single lip, and why? Because, respected citizens, over the past month, for a month and a half, minimals have been paid to certain companies, in particular bookmakers, and especially to debt enforcement agencies. This is where I'm going to provide one of the information from one of those agencies that was in 2013. Founded with 500,000,00 kn capital, capital capital, and this debt-to-deposit agency today has over 400 million kunas of underlying capital. So over the past years they have made enormous profits, and today the Croatian state, or this government, is helping them. Dear citizens, are you in favour of paying taxpayers' money to casinos, bookies and debt agencies? I'm sure you didn't. The second thing, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions in the last few days that if we had introduced the EURo, we were in a much better situation because we would have access to unlimited liquidity. In the past month, two German academics have signed a complaint to the German Constitutional Court because the European Central Bank bought state bonds from EUR 2600 billion from 2015 to 2018. The Germans have gone mad and are asking the question, claiming that Germany has no right, means to bear and finance to that end. They gave the European Court of Justice the ultimatum to respond within 3 months. This is the beginning of a great, let's just say, not the end of a monetary union, but the big problems, and they assure us it's security and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206322	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give it to you, and we have more requests for a break. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206323	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I am looking for a break because of the Croatian public to tell the true indicators. So it's not true that the budget hasn't been cut because this corona crisis is on the cost side of the state budget demanding new costs that are nearly 8-9 billion kuna. And if the budget hadn't been reduced then there would have been an increase in the expenditure side by 8 or 9 billion kuna, but since all budget users have cut their original budget for all those expenditures that will not happen because of the situation we are in, the government has therefore shown great effort and thus sent a message that it wants to keep the expenditure of the state budget at which they were voted. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, in finance is the worst ex-wise. We've had twice in the HS debate over government measures about incentives for, to retain seats. No one, but literally none of the MPs have risen, and that's what he said, and that one has no right to do it. But at the same time, you all forget that HANFA has made a decision on some of the financial sectors that it controls that can't pay off dividends. The CNB has made a decision that banks cannot pay the dividend. If someone has abused this government provision to help preserve jobs, the tax administration and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will establish it, punish it, pay back the money and what I think all fellow parliamentary representatives agree, the name of the company should be publicly published and placed on the pillar of shame. But in this way, you can't bid this one, you can't bid that one, you should be brave when measures have been taken, and that word has no right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that, that one doesn't have the right to do that. So it's important at the right moment to react, help, because of the little weenie we can't throw away the whole grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206324	Thank you. We'll give you a break for up to 16 and 25. It's 4:00 P.M. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we've run out of time to take a break, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the respected chief state treasurer, Jakir Bajo, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when the budget agreed for this year, it was difficult to assume that we would also be hit by a pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and even less, on top of that, the earthquake. In June 2017, this government managed to get out of the excessive budget deficit procedure and in the 3rd year's orders, we recorded a budget surplus and a strong reduction in the share of public debt in GDP by more than 11% points compared to the end of 2015. We were proud to read last summer that Croatia was in debt for the first time at a negative interest rate. In 2019, the tourist year, the record year, we recorded with an increase of as much as 17% more income than what this government found and the increase in income, the arrival of 20% and the night of 16%, and it was really hard to imagine that the pandemic of the coronary virus would not stop, but suddenly that all of this fell into the water as if nothing had worked so and that we did not fast. As I said, on top of that, there was a city of Zagreb and an earthquake, few who said today and mentioned that as much as 40% of the income of the Republic of Zagreb or 58% of total profits of the entrepreneurs were achieved. To rebalance the budget in which revenues are significantly reduced, almost gone over the past months on some items, while retaining the same expenditure, is indeed a great skill and vice-president of the ministry and the entire government. In the past, the government has sought and succeeded, primarily to protect our lives, our health, and our jobs. In fact, the first package of measures, we had 63 measures and the second package provided for numerous and subsidies, delays in paying a certain tax, and only one measure, I would say, the most attractive one, with which to pay, is the salary of 4 thousand kuna, with the corresponding fees, was the most popular one, and only this measure last month will save about 600 thousand jobs, i.e. assistance from nearly 96,000 entrepreneurs. When I listen to some colleagues today when they say, we won't support this budget rebalance, I wonder if they represent any entrepreneurs at all, whether they represent any workers, employees who would have found themselves at the Employment Office if there hadn't been this measure by the Government, and precisely those measures are contained in this budget rebalancing. Only to support job conservation is 6.7 billion kuna, from the EU funds 1.6 billion kuna. Citizens' and households' fees increased by 327,9 million, subsidies by 5 billion kuna, we have also heard a lot of criticism about EU funds. The criticism is, in fact, how the amount is reduced. We need to know that there is a shift in public procurement plans, prolonging and changes in planned labour dynamics, however, it should be said when we talk about EU funds that incorrect information that we have paid more than we have received. In fact, we're on the plus with March 31st of 25 billion kuna. All those funds that we are obliged to withdraw by 2019 according to all the operational programmes we have also withdrawn, so the goal is met, and many more funds have been received, or redistributed, around 400m euros from EU funds, which for the purchase of medical equipment, which is for loans and financial instruments, and also for job retention measures. Once again, given that the actual exposure of 5 minutes is extremely short, I call on all colleagues and colleagues, if they want to protect one worker who has applied for this measure, i.e. entrepreneurs, to support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206327	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206328	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. This calls for the number of unemployed, etc., and it is not said that it has not responded so quickly and prevented this very number of unemployed from happening two months ago. In two months, much has changed, conditions have been created for both economic recovery and work, and something better can always happen afterwards. So, in general, why do they cause what is not to be caused, when these measures have already achieved a great deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206329	Thank you very much. Answer, the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206330	Thank you, colleague Peric. Well, the truth is, it seems to me that all those who are against this rebalancing are against the funds that these many of our workers have received. Looks like you'd rather have 600,000 people at the Employment Service, so we'd have more reason to call this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206331	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206332	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Get INAs and HT and HEP, etc. It is also accomplished in your Vodice and in my Pula, just book in the city of Zagreb and it would be good for you to mention it as former mayor because this is just another example of how centralized Croatia is. But what I wanted to ask you was something else, and I asked that this morning and the Honorable Vice President of the government, but he didn't know or didn't want to answer, and the question concerns the pausals paid by our tenants. I'm asking you why you and I come from a region that is dominantly touristic and I'm sure you understand that problem. So I'm asking you if you consider this flat tax to be for the second quarter that's up to 30. 6, should I charge or write off after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206333	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206334	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, I would like to say populistly, I am so that all these taxes are deleted and that none of our citizens pay any taxes, but we need to know who earns a certain income or a certain amount of membership or tax, and there are some people with personal incomes, some families are fed. Therefore, there should be a good measure of forgiveness and delay. And as for the city of Zagreb, I agree with you, I would also agree that the VAT that is coming to the Plodines in my Vodice will be the income of the town of Vodice, but we know very much how it works because 35% of the population lives in the city of Zagreb, it should be said that 48% of the exports leave the city of Zagreb, therefore, are all facts that should be considered when it is passed, perhaps in due course, some other bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206335	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206336	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you referred naturally to the priorities that were and the priority of this government was of course to protect the health of citizens, then to preserve the jobs that are both the government and the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance but also the entire ministry made in a quick reaction but of course you also referred to the withdrawal of EU funds and funds, and in your debate you said that in plus 25 billion kuna and of course on March 31st this year. Of course, this is one normal sequence and we all couldn't plan this crisis in November last year, and I thank you once again, of course, to the rapid reaction of the government, but also to the Minister of Finance and the complete ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206337	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206338	Thank you very much. A colleague of Maksimchuk, it is true when speaking help from European funds, is said to only one figure which, in my view, only prolonged or moved plans and public procurement, and there has been a change in the planning of the dynamics of the works done, however, is such as a refund from EU aid increased by 120 million kuna, other EU programmes by 53 million, EU aid to 29 million and 625 000, which means that there have been some changes in both terms and internal excesses in a different way in order to give priority to helping the economy, jobs and health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206339	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206340	Thank you very much, Vice President, just a brief intervention, I don't normally get to interrupt the debate in this morning's replica and now at the replica of my colleague Martinchev Juričev as regards private tenants and this is about the second quarter, the second quarter. In the rules of the General Tax Law, I thought that this was how I responded because we had already signed the criteria, a greater exemption as foreseen. So it says very clearly, obligations for the second quarter of this year will not be charged, so private renters have been released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206341	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206342	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you for having responded very clearly now, but I will read to you what I did this morning before I asked you, I found on the Tax Administration pages, which is the tenants who have submitted a request for a postponement of payment for the commitment made on 31.3. Please intervene and tell your colleagues from the IRS that they are correcting this because it creates a confusion among everyone visiting the IRS official website, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206343	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206344	Thank you very much. All right, let's make it clear to each other and to those who are watching us, or to those to whom we are going to deliver these messages. 31.3. refers to the commitment for the first quarter, this is the first quarter, so the flat-rate borrowers pay quarter or quarter, at the end of the quarter for that previous quarter, so 31.3. for the first quarter, 30.6. for the second quarter and what is in the general tax law is intended to be released precisely for that second quarter that should be paid 30.6., this is released, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206345	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206346	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, yes, a large number of small tenants have this problem but there is an even bigger problem with a large part of Slavonians who were the seasonal labour force on our sea and were left without a job and a question on their behalf, which they can expect since the announcements of the tourist season are real, are they likely to run out of jobs and 5 and 6 and 7 months? So, because of them, models need to be found to help these people who were seasons, this is one thing and the other, it is certain to continue investing in the tourist development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, there have also been announced major projects of tourism promotion of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, whether in the rebalance and that part is being reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206347	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206348	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, well, I think that you are, as of course, a talkative advocate, my God, from there and you come as I do, for the development and development of Slavonia and Baranja and, in general, our geographical view of the East, I think we can agree and then I'll use the answer to your replica, a word exactly to remind everyone. Until some time ago, not so long ago a survey among entrepreneurs who are the first factor of the restriction of further economic activity, which limits you most in further steps, etc., a labour force, a lack of labour. Among other things, of course, now that we are talking about the problem of keeping jobs and preserving jobs, we need to sort of remind everyone of that not so long ago. So even seasonal workers from Slavonia who went down to Dalmatia to work during the season must surely work in these circumstances as such, of course, should not be neglected, but at the same time we repeat, so we put the measures we put into operation in the circumstances that they are and we will see how and how to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206349	We have another replica of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206350	Dear Minister, please answer the question precisely, in the last month in order to save the economy and help the economy, to what extent did you charge us at a fixed interest rate and at which, with a variable interest rate on loans and bonds? And another important question, did you negotiate these loans and bonds with the currency clause? Because if you accidentally made a deal, you never gave us that information, not you, not the Prime Minister. If you've put us in debt at a variable interest rate of 10 years. e.g., but for 2-3.g. The interest rate comes back to 4.5.6%, you've done a lot of damage, and you could've put us in charge of financing Kunski through the CNB at 0%. If you've negotiated a currency clause, you've done the same great harm because it increases the eurorization of the entire system, you're putting us at currency risk. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206351	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206352	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In particular, a concrete answer is available to you publicly anyway, but I will try to sum up those 6 billion and 100 million kunas that we have agreed with the 6 largest Croatian banks, bilateral arrangements, each of them of course details are known, I think that more than half of these arrangements are at a fixed interest rate, some of them are bound to a six-month vault record, so they have some variable component, but I repeat, more than half of them are fixed. The bond and vault records know that they are always practical at a fixed interest rate. So, the vault log that we've refinanced at an interest rate of 0.06 per year, that's the one that's reaching and will be reaching for now a little less than a year. And this bond that's recent, the last instrument that we've issued as well as each one is at a fixed interest rate of 0.75%, it was also a contribution, so we've issued it with a pair, per pair at 7.g. That's it. What? [[The bogeyman from the bench is heard.]] This last one is a billion EUR 445, so we're talking about, that's exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206353	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206354	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I would like to say a few words about the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. with projections for 2021 and '22. Because the basic question was whether or not to change the budget now or not to change it, the responsible Government made it clear that a budget rebalancing may also be taking place as part of the measures for the month. As the March March measures went, the March measures, so this is one of those parts of the March 2020 measure, and as a result of this pandemic that surprised us all. Going back only 3 months or 70 days, it's clear that we've all lived at our own pace, and no one has thought that we're going to talk here about budget rebalancing, we've all seen each other in different relationships, and there hasn't been any debate about whether the state is going in the right direction or wrong, we've mostly been dealing with some other topics that weren't at all about finance. But there was a virus that apparently locked not only us but the whole world. The strongest states, those that can on the moon, simply stand today locked up and fight for their population, i.e. for the health of its citizens. We do it now after this situation that we started to verify, for reasons unknown to me, because everything is comparable, and the data is all out there, I just don't understand why we're doing it? Why are the hardworking people on the front line being valued in a way that we now question them in general and their expertise and anything else in terms of some kind of politics? For what? So we have EU countries with which we can compare, our sizes, 4 million inhabitants, a little more population, so let's compare, it's not a problem at all. Let's look at Ireland, do we want that scenario? 20 and how many, 23 135 infected, 1500 dead. Or everyone's talking about some Swedish guy. Here's a colleague here who advocated a Swedish model. 27 000 infected, 3300 dead. Today we're creating a problem here, unfortunately, for the deceased in the nursing homes, and it didn't have to happen, it happened. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a problem or a virus that we don't have a solution for, but we're very easily earning efforts and all the citizens who were willing to lock themselves up or stop their lives to get out of this situation. I'm coming from the island, we've been locked up for 50 days, four ferry lines a day, just delivery, just delivery. Until recently, three regions within the county, here from Monday last we travel freely without passes and it's like all normal, nothing was normal. And I wonder by the reactions of everyone, for what? Why are we underestimating this effort that everyone has made to have the situation that we have today? We have 300 I think and 8 active people who are infected, 308, there are no countries in the EU that have so many. And that's too much for us. And it needs to be reduced, it'll shrink safely if we're responsible. And this, the government's reaction through the March measures, for April, so we first had the universal enthusiasm. General acceptance and now that we realize these measures, we are all against them because the opposition can and we know and accept it as a reaction because the goals are now quite another. They may even be imposed in some way on the side of the opposition. We wanted elections first, now we don't want them anymore. Okay, everybody's fighting for their own politics. . /. And I'm looking with And I'm looking from the local level, what are our calculations now? On communal compensation and pay contributions. We stopped everything else, especially those who live on tourism. No public area, no concession approvals, no concession revenues, no revenue practically from construction, here and there some contributions. There's no payment in the budget. Of course we've been reacting with rebalances, and we're waiting for what the government is going to say that we know what we're going to do, we've tried to do what we can. If a construction worker can't make it to the island, what can we do? We stopped all the projects. And these are situations that are real, they need to be looked at that way, not all politics. And let's be realistic, according to this effort, to reduce expenditures, but those 8 billion more that have been incurred as expenditure in the fight against something. And we can't underestimate it and say nothing has been reduced, not even by lime. Yeah, it's getting smaller, it's just a question of how anybody wants to read it. I know that every 150 of us here would put together a budget the way it suits him and no one would be satisfied. But I think this budget shows that we have a measure of optimism. What happens in the 10th month? I'd like to say we're gonna have a great season from 15.7 to 15.8. Maybe it's possible, and maybe it's not, it's not all up to us. I think we're showing responsibility and what people want from us. And it's to feel at least safe, as safe as it can be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206355	We have several replicas again, Mrsic's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206356	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, so no one doubts that the results are healthy, but here we are talking about throwing money without any criteria, and among the 10 biggest companies that received support from the state are hotel companies that have a permanent season, some baker's companies that were selling at the time, until we have companies that had a delivery, so we've seen rows in front of these companies. Also, those owned by the pump, therefore, were seen to have been thrown in such a way that there was no control and you had no answer. Yes, we started with 420 thousand unemployed, we ended up with 285 thousand 31.12.2015, 135 thousand less, you started with 285,000, before the crown you had 143 thousand, so net 142 thousand, so the same thing we did in four years, so when you criticized, look at a little bit of numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206357	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206358	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I come from an island where we have a hotel house that owns Valamar, and has a daughter who owns it, named Imperial and your way, and these companies should not receive any compensation even though they are locked up, so today there is no activity, no hotel is open, no camp is open. Last year at this time of the 12.5th, everything was open, working in it 200 people. If you think and represent the the thesis that these people should have lost any help or that they should have received nothing from the state, you continue to do so, as well as in the campaign or any future time. I think the state should have done it and done it the best possible way. How the question of evaluating everything that happened in the fast run will be addressed, let's say the procedure to reach the time because a month is not too much time to solve everything, by the more we were halfway through the month when all these different measures and behaviors started, I know that it was responding to help all of us. Is it fair to everyone, I think it was probably the ones who They made something that they shouldn't have, but there's a state to determine that in later times. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206359	The next replica is the respected representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206360	Dear colleague Boris, you said you didn't understand why we're acting like this. At first, we all boasted, and now he's attacking himself and he's looking for guilt. We'll remember, we've heard it countless times, they've waved at the savior of the olive branches, they've worshipped him, they've yelled at him in a few days. But here is the fact, the fact that no one can deny, the fact that all those who have requested, received, the fact is that the businessmen in that part of which the work is banned, not only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but from all the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have received numerous benefits and have all been one goal and I think that this is a legitimate goal and that it deserves all praise. Save the job, save the economy, because that's the only model we can think about getting out of this situation. There is every praise to the government for its determination, as well as to the Staff, and all that is going on in the future. It will show how correct these measures were. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206361	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206362	Thank you very much. I, my colleagues or the staff, understand when they said they were the same people as at the beginning, and today after 77 days. Some understood that at the beginning, but after 77 days, unfortunately they didn't and tried to insult them, which I disagree with, but it's obviously their right, which was before, we've been through a different time and we remember them all. We also remember the migrant crisis and the crisis headquarters established by the SDP government to address the activities of the entry of immigrants into the Republic of Croatia. Who was in charge of this Command? Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Who were the members? All in a row, deputy ministers from the new ministries. But we hear today that it wasn't a political body at the time that this crisis headquarters was just today a political body, it was probably all HDZ's, and unfortunately there are no SDPs here anymore. I mean, it's so below the level of anything, they've dealt with one problem, this Staff is dealing with another problem and there's a law that solved them in terms of who should be a member and who can join it. But I'm saying, everyone has a chance to show up next time what he's been doing. and how he acted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206363	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206364	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I agree with you, fellow Boric, that we must watch what we say in HS and not empower those people who are in the Staff today. The fact is that before this crisis we had a balanced budget, that should be said, with a surplus budget. Unfortunately, this situation that has now happened has wiped it out, which is why this rebalancing. You may also need to see how and how certain problems are being fought or solved, including the economic problems of the country in our environment. Today, we compare a little with those we used to be together with, but we should also see that perhaps more with those who are members of the EU. Even EU members do not have the same access to the coronary virus, many have made mistakes. For example, one Switzerland experienced a disaster, especially some cantons that were toward Italy. The Sweden you now mention, so didn't we have yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the arrival of our people from Switzerland who were infected on the plane and after 3 years, a coronary virus appeared in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206365	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206366	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, but it just seems to us, and we tend to hurt everything we do well, so we've had it for the past 20 days, I say especially by the opposition when it started to question everything. So we're comparing ourselves with a Danish who, say, has ten thousand infected and over 500 dead, when they open schools we say and we want to open schools, we open schools now the kids won't go to school. That's the problem. Why? I spoke to the teachers at my field school yesterday. Not one child of them 40 and something didn't come to school, 77 days on the island we didn't have any infected. The night before, all the kids were playing at the playground. I ask why, she says, I don't want to be the one who wants to determine which nine children they need to go to school or don't need to go to school, as if there's no other options or divisions in any group, etc. And the conversation, the easiest thing to say is okay, but then let's not compare ourselves to anyone. Then let's say that we did something ourselves or that we're better, but let's not keep saying that we're worse if we see if everything else indicates that I think we're much better than many.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206367	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206368	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Treasury, colleagues and colleagues, so until the announcement of the pandemic itself and by the World Health Organization that took place in the 3rd month, more precisely on 11 March 2020, the Republic of Croatia had a balanced budget, had stable public finances, had a reduction in public debt, lower unemployment, higher employment and a budget surplus. In the very health crisis we entered from one significant surplus position in the current and capital account other words of a larger export than imports or a larger inflow of capital than the outflows of the capital itself, and we actually used that surplus during these past years to deleverage to the abroad or to strengthen the foreign reserves themselves. The government was following global events, and knowing that we had already 25.2. had the first case of coronary infection with the virus actually also brought that 63-measure package where it was actually intended to intervene or disperse wherever at that point and what the government and headquarters had concluded as such. This package has been very helpful to the economy, and only to prevent the dismissal of workers. Imagine if there had been a discharge of workers or if the government hadn't intervened, we would have at the Bureau instead of what I know today, 152,000 unemployed, maybe 250 or 300,000 unemployed. At that moment there would actually be a social depression, and we, you on the street today in your places, we can't feel that depression in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the results in the economy that are actually conditioned by this coronary virus. The state has done everything primarily to save people's lives, to preserve the health of its citizens aware that after the pandemic of this virus that cannot be contained in such a way, at least reduce the number of infected persons and that the health system as such does not come into question. This is why this budget rebalancing is here today in the Croatian Parliament, from which it is clearly visible, and these are the figures that are not being hidden, in fact, the revenues that fell by nearly 23 billion kuna, but the government is sending a clear message to both the economy and the socially endangered groups and individuals, cultural workers, farmers, pensioners, in fact to everyone. And when you look at certain items that are related to this budget rebalancing, or those who, for example, have lost it, and these are all those who had to cut their items on the revenue side of the budget are certain ministries that are exclusively related to workers, jobs, subsidies in agriculture and health only. As far as expenditure is concerned, so they stayed at the same level precisely because of the reason and that is the clearest, biggest message from the Croatian government. Some colleagues today have said that the EU has not been involved in this, but it should be said that these EU-related funds are, in fact, made possible by a more flexible approach to be allocated. What I'm trying to say here right now, and there's been talk about it, and some MPs have been talking about it, and I've been getting some kind of, uh, some messages from some of the companies, and I'm going to mention them. So it's 1,200 of our companies that are related to domestic licenses or 800 international or those carriers that don't work in inter-urban or inter-linear traffic but are exclusively focused on tourism and they haven't had any income and have complained of, of course, banks that have been taking credit rates, or they've been getting notices or costs, and one lady told me, the government, the Croatian government, literally said, has done a lot for us entrepreneurs, but of that part we have to give to the banks. So we have to give some of the money to the banks which he doesn't think is good because, now that we're here on interest and expenses, they have absolutely no income. She begged me that the government of the Republic of Croatia intervened in that part, and the government really intervened, and I got it from her this morning, and they said they intervened, the banks lifted all our costs, and they said that as such we don't have to, we don't have to commandeer. So this is extremely valuable and commendable because the government has actually engaged in the best possible way in all segments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206369	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Klaric will be the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206370	You mentioned that so much depression, given the magnitude of the crisis and everything that is happening and compared to our environment. You also mentioned cutting items. Sometimes you have to pay to get more. So what's more is that every preserved workplace, what's more, that's what you're right now going on in the field right now, to keep under the control of the epidemic. And what will be more is what will allow the economy to continue to function normally as it does. We in my town when we were making a decision to release entirely from the communal fee or 50% of those production activities or all those who are a decision of the headquarters, we made a calculation, we lost in this month and a half 2 million and a half kuna, aware that this deficit would get us something much more in the coming months because all those we released now with relief measures continued to function normally, and that's the point So it's not just cutting items that will reduce income, it's what will increase it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206371	Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206372	Thank you very much. That's right, my colleague Klaric, actually after the government's measures were adopted, I needed all the county, all the municipalities and cities to act in the same way that you did. In fact, in such an act in the city of Bakru, you have actually shown that you care about the economy, that you care about jobs, aware that there is no sudden departure of such workers to the Employment Service, which would only then create a certain depression. Do not forget that Croatia is also a country, an broadcasting country and that in fact all the counties in this area should be very careful in this crown and should actually be sort of free of charge of the county precisely because we should welcome the first tourists at a very reasonable time. So, we all needed to be in the interest of getting more involved, far more than the national headquarters, that we would also hire ourselves in local places to keep an eye on such things so that we wouldn't have that happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206373	Thank you. The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206374	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Babic, you are, I understand that you are praising the government and that we are now going ahead of the elections and that you are all delighted with the actions of this government, I missed my colleague Boris for the past month and a half while he was locked up on the island of Rab because we have not listened to such discussions, we who have debated these months and a half obviously have not heard us, I would have preferred that you were here so that you could listen to us. So, we've all given the same solutions and offered proposals from the opposition that you didn't accept or accept afterwards, it doesn't matter, we'll talk about it for the next few days, then two months. So people will weigh but you're looking at your colleague Babic, don't overdo it. So, you said now that there was no measure of government, that a large part of the people would end up at the Bureau and that there would be general depression. Are people happy and not depressed, do they call HDZ those who had a little more pay, say 5, 6, 7000, and because of these measures, the government fell on the minimum? Do you get calls from people whose employers put them on the minimum, they get from the government 4,000 kuna and those 750 in their pocket? So, I'll talk about it in my individual debate but don't make too much noise. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206375	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206376	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, it is good to know how to turn things around in a good way and make it so populistly acceptable to the public. And who's happy who had a salary of 10, 12, 13,000 kunas to pay 3 or 4000 kuna? Nobody's happy. What you're alluding is that the government produced this virus. The government didn't produce the virus, so she's lucky it happened. The government has only acted in the best possible way at the moment. The measures you were taking were too late, they were not acceptable, they were quite populist, so it was necessary to find that money, it was not found and you did not explain it in the best possible way to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206377	Thank you, colleague Djujic. You've caused a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been injured... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206378	Yeah, yeah, I did, uh... Art. In 238, therefore, my colleague Babic insults me when he says that I am alluding to the fact that she produced the virus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, it's not either I'm alluding or I think you're happy about it, maybe you're lucky that the virus showed up because everything that's wrong in Croatia, you say it's the virus. Maybe it's the virus that didn't, say, your ministers couldn't fill the property cards, so 15 of them left this government, it's the virus, no one's guilty. So if anyone's happy about the virus in this country, it's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206379	Okay. Comrade Djujic, of course, you know it wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if it was, then you've done it now, exactly the same. Let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm still tolerated, I'm probably going to take time, I'm going to become less tolerated. So let’s not use it instead of replicas. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206380	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, here you heard fellow Djujic, he says I was locked up, I watched him on TV, he and his discussions, which were all in order when the measures were taken to increase the budget spending item by about 10 billion kuna, I was surprised that they had no measures for pets, and that was the only thing that was missing so that they would get some compensation. But today we're listening again on behalf of the club of colleagues of Greeks and Lalovec who say you haven't cut anything on the expenditure side, it's SDP policy, I'm lying today, I'm fixing myself tomorrow, and these are the moments we need to go out on some kind of megday ahead of the voters, right? They say we talked to the Most, then this one says we didn't talk to the Most, then I talk to someone on behalf of the Most every day. They've increased the budget expenditure rate by 10 billion and today they're asking why it hasn't been cut yet. They'll probably sort of do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206381	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206382	Thank you very much. Most of the replica was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206383	And I'm sorry, just a little while, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms has, I haven't seen, raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206384	Dear colleagues and colleagues, an officer has been injured. 235. The Rules of Procedure of the Future Honorable Representative, Boris, did not replicate the representative who spoke but, above all, replicated fellow Djujic and then defied himself and you missed him by warning him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206385	Well, of course it's not because if I were to react to it, then I'm sure everyone would have a warning very soon. All right, here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206386	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It's true, fellow Boric, you have partly referred to your colleague, Djujic, but rightly so. His escapades, which were through individual debates, partly cheered us up here in HS. But I don't want to believe what my colleague Djujic said, but even now what you're saying, I don't want to believe that the government had any space to help the economy more, and to developmental social groups. So, according to financial opportunities and budgetary opportunities, the government has given its maximum because of the absence of certain social disturbances, especially those economic tectonic disorders. For 30 or 40 days we were witnesses, it wasn't easy to endure, but the fact is that we didn't get depressed, it's extremely important for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206387	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I'm about to start with may not seem to be related to today's subject at first sight, but it's very much so. And I will begin by congratulating all the nurses in the Republic of Croatia on Sisterhood Day and reminding them that last year, during the summer, nurses fought for their material status, but also for the status of other healthcare professionals, especially doctors, since the doctor is not representative of the medical union and could not participate in collective negotiations. And those rights that the nurses had won less than a year ago are reduced by this rebalancing that we are talking about today because if you look at the rebalancing amount relating to receiving all public sector employees, and that means that the reduction and receipts of those we have been beating for the last two months are on the front line of defense, nurses, doctors, technicians, firefighters, cops, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that this is wrong, not only because we are hitting on the material status of those who have suffered a tremendous burden in this crisis but also because we are jeopardising the speed and possibility of recovery of public finances. The Institute of Public Finance, about a month and a half ago, made and published an analysis that clearly shows that the reduction of wages in the public sector, in fact, has a negative impact on the budget in the short and medium term and in the long term. So in short, we cut the branch we're sitting on. I know you're gonna vote this, but it's still my duty to warn you. The other problem is that many colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me have pointed to the question of support. We have spoken, we have warned, yes, we have spoken, and we have warned both in the assembly and outside it, although it was about the measure that the Government has brought and which has not been appointed by the Parliament that there are no criteria, that money is divided by hand and hat and by those who need it and those who do not need it. And today, colleagues and colleagues, we found out where that money came from. In particular, nearly half a billion kuna has been taken from a fund designed to help employ people with disabilities. For the help of the disabled, for those who suffer in every crisis, and for this one, the hardest to suffer, are the hardest to suffer because they will surely get no job without such help and support. But from the fund that all employers in the Republic of Croatia have over 20 employees, we seized the fund to share without criteria those who pay dividends. And Mr. Aladrdovic can complain today that it was bad and can say that this money will return, but given the way the government acted, unfortunately there is no legal basis for it. And why is that? Because the criteria were prescribed in such a way that they were fulfilled by those who did not need the money. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about the need to react quickly in the crisis and that sometimes it takes away mistakes, but this wasn't a mistake, this was a disaster. A disaster decision that has resulted in catastrophic consequences, and the money for it is on the account that was intended for the most needed in the Republic of Croatia. I won't raise my hand for it, and I can't. And let me just end up with a brief review of the City of Zagreb, despite not living here I have a lot of friends living in those parts of the City of Zagreb who are particularly affected by the earthquake. And almost every day, one of them asked me what would happen to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. And I can't answer that question, probably not you who sit here and look at me, what in... And if you look at this budget rebalance, you'll see that the money for that kind of renovation is not foreseen. Smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206389	Thank you very much. We have replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206390	Thank you very much. You said at the beginning of your debate that perhaps at first sight your debate would have nothing to do with today's topic, but it certainly had something to do with it because do not follow these HDZ people, their discussions today have nothing to do with today's topic, but they are in the campaign. Here's my colleague, Boric, hasn't been here in months, and now he's making up for that part, so I guess he's talking about all the topics we've been talking about for the past month. And these five, six days we have to talk about everything. We need to talk about the reconstruction of Zagreb, we need to talk about 15 ministers who left this government, about property cards, about the Most coalition partner HDZ who brought them to power twice, all of this is a topic. We're in the election now, and it's all about this budget rebalance because he's pre-election, because he's like this, because he's pre-election, and that's why there's no spending-side drop, because we're probably going to have one more rebalancing, some new government, and we have to talk about it, and I'm sick of this situation, so we're not happy, so we're going to be 2 months from now. Being in power, we'll have to pay back your debts and what you've already destroyed three times, so we're not happy about it, don't tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206391	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206392	The Honorable Vice President Reiner is today benevolent, so perhaps I shouldn't have been introduced but used to some stricter criteria, yet I wanted to fence in advance so I wouldn't be warned that I wasn't holding the subject but a joke aside. Yes, this budget is pre-election. Well, it's pre-election that everything that's been going on in Croatia in the last few weeks, pre-election is the press of the headquarters, it's pre-election to pass a Voluntary Health Insurance Act where we claimed that the censorship is rising for some 200,000 Croatian citizens, although in reality it's 12 to 15 000. Pre-election is what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia does, it is pre-election what the vice-president of the Republic of Croatia does. It's all pre-election and what's best of all, and it's legitimate to be pre-election but it's not legitimate to lie about it and that's the biggest problem. They pretend this has some kind of epidemic or some kind of background, but it's actually pre-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206393	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206394	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am glad that you mentioned this and indeed used the right words "abstained" on the portal in Index, in which all employers who do not meet the quota are paying. The lawyer says nothing has been notified or questioned about the fund, thus ruining or preventing it, reducing the possibility of hiring the most vulnerable groups of this society. It's not good and if it wasn't an accident, it shows the fact that the Index portal that the law was amended last month, it's already past the month for such a transaction to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206395	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206396	A respected colleague, right, and that's the problem. All the crises we've been going through have taught us one thing. In them, the first and most people who suffer the most, the migrants suffer, are many Croatian citizens who have gone to Germany, Ireland and so on. They felt because the migrants were the first to start losing their jobs, the minority groups died, the disabled, the disabled. But that the government can stand and carry it in this way and directly grab the fund that is intended, in which it is paid exclusively for the purpose of helping those who are in an extremely difficult life situation, who need help, and I didn't expect it, and I have to admit that I'm surprised by the amount that needs to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206397	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Malacans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is only partly an insight into the financial situation that hit Croatia at the time of this crisis, both central and local finances. This crown crisis in Croatia has invented a lot of hot water, and one of these revolutionary discoveries is that Croatia needs reforms of local self-government and territorial reconstruction. The media, politics, are telling the public that local self-government in this crisis has not acted responsibly, how it has been handled under-disciplined, and that it is, in fact, the worst link in the pandemic fight system. So because the local self-government has so responded, we need a reform of local self-government. The conclusion, however, is true, but the premise that led to this conclusion is entirely to blame. One of the logical arguments offered to us for territorial reconstruction is that, at a time when they were still in force of the e-pass, when communication within local self-government units was limited, the media talked about how there are municipalities and cities that don't even have mail, have no ATMs, have no kindergarten, don't actually have enough residents. So is it local self-government's fault that the Croatian government, that the Croatian post office was rationalized and that they abolished businesses throughout a series of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia? Is that the responsibility of local self-government? One of the following arguments they offer and that tells us about how bad the local state is in this crisis is that the local state simply has no financial capacity to deal with this crisis, that's absolutely correct, but who's responsible for it? This Government, or the Law on the financing of local self-government units, is responsible for focusing exclusively on income tax. So even then, it means that the capacities of the sub-disciplined local self-government as far as finance and administration are concerned, have suffered a huge burden of this crisis because almost 30% of all these gifts we've given to the economy, went to the back of the local self-government. The local self-government is also the first to start layoffs, and it is the local self-government that first began to forgive local taxes or communal fees, communal contributions and all that, therefore, filled its budgets. When it comes to the effectiveness of local self-government, then from all of this is visible and the next is that territorial reconstruction is important, it may be necessary but it is not the most important. The most important thing for the functioning of local self-government units is the way of funding, and right now it is actually showing that the way to finance local self-government is bad, that it is insufficient and that it does not give sufficient capacity to local self-governments to deal with, to deal with these crises. Although, colleagues and colleagues had it not been for the 100th and 100th community of civil protection, there were not 100ths and 100ths of volunteer firefighters, if there were not 100 members of civil protection, the measures proposed and ordered by the National Civil Protection Headquarters would not have been carried out so successfully that they were not implemented locally. It was all on the back of the local community, municipalities and cities again. Not a single kuna still based on the Fire Department is paid to firemen, voluntary firefighters for their expenses during this crisis. But to conclude in the end and these five minutes, that we really need the reform of local self-government, but in this way ad hoc solutions it will actually lead to a completely wrong and even worse situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206399	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Dear Representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206400	Thank you very much. Col. Mateljan, you have well warned that through these measures, and through rebalancing in many ways, it was going to reduce the incomes of local and regional self-government units and not to see models and ways to compensate, and most of these municipalities, cities and counties went with their own measures, support to the economy and among the first to react. Obviously, they will not be able to monitor this in the future unless a model of funding units of local self-government is found, and thank you very much to all volunteer firefighters, because without them many local self-government units could not carry out either the protection of the property of citizens or many other humanitarian projects. And we should also commend the firemen Orubica and Davor who put out the fire last night at the dump site of Bacanska, where there was another fire because of the lack of concern of the local chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206401	Your Honor, Mr. Mathelan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206402	Thank you very much. Yes, a colleague of nearly 70% of all local self-government's original incomes is being taxed on income. With no income tax, we lose 70% of our income. The projects that we are doing, which we must bring to an end, are primarily EU funds projects under measure 7, in measure 6, in this way beheaded financially very, very difficult to bring to an end, and I wonder how we will finance these projects that are the corrections that the authorities will impose on us, I am simply afraid of how local self-government will survive this year. If the government's goal is that local self-government dies on its own then this is a good goal and then this virus will destroy us all together and then these reforms, that reform won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206403	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers, this is what I'm going to begin my debate in a way that I'm surprised that this rebalancing went now in the last week of practically sitting this way, but it's clear and it should be made clear that this is one pre-election rebalancing and unfortunately this is not the last rebalancing this year. None of us are happy that he's coming, but this is evident that when we look at the structure of this rebalancing, so that there's no fall on the expense side of the serious, that government forecasts are what they are in relation to the whole environment, I would even like to say that I have to do it, but this is the fact that this is one pre-election budget and that we need to talk about it here right now. But here I am encouraged to change the dynamics of the debate because I was encouraged to do so by my HDZ colleagues who, in fact, today, especially my colleague, Boris, my colleague Babic, are discussing me in a way that praises my mouth, this one, but it is unfortunate that they remain in that, not following Prime Minister Plenkovic, who says new normal, they stayed in that old fashion because they were gone for a month and a half, so they were set up, their chip to the one before this corona crisis. And we've entered this whole crown crisis into a new, new model of functioning, so new normal, and in a month, two of us are going to enter a fully rebooted, rebooted model of governance. So, what's this about? We have all the time as an opposition to the full mouth of the Government on community, on calling for consensus, on all of us to be together, propose certain measures, offer solutions, offer ourselves to include ourselves in the interests of all citizens solving these problems together, but what we warned about a month and a half ago today is proving to be true. So that's when we said that the HDZ is essentially this crisis, it's like it's only about HDZ and who's the issue of just the ruling coalition and who's not concerned with all the other citizens who aren't HDZ's. Let me remind you that on another package of measures, Prime Minister Plenkovic presented only to coalition partners and the second day brought him here to the assembly instead of presenting it to all parliamentary parties, that we were supplementing ourselves, that we were all giving some sort of solution in the interest of Croatian citizens, no, you're acting unilaterally all the time. On the other hand, we're seeing with this headquarters today, and here it is trying to impute us that we want to degrade this headquarters. You say here they were the same people before, they're the same today. They did, they used to be, they're the same today, they're just saying one thing today, and yesterday they were saying another thing. So, yesterday whoever was breaking self-insulation was a bioterrorist who took a rifle and went into a shopping mall and shot people, and today it's a person who's not infected, who's not dangerous just here is a little bit at greater risk because he might have been with someone else in touch. So this is an indicator of why the devastating political staffing of HDZ is doing. And this is the time when we have to remind the citizens of that, we have to file accounts. So he can't die somewhere 20 people where he's headed by a political key and to say guilty is a virus, nobody's guilty, alive, alive, alive, who's guilty of anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206405	And yet it has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206406	So there is, there is, there is, look, so we're afraid in this rebalancing isn't, say, compensation for people who are traumatized. Who's going to pay for these people who buried the wrong woman? They can sue the state, they can sue the hospital, so it has something to do with academics, so in this rebalancing these things were supposed to be envisaged, I don't see them, which is why I'm appealing to it. As for the measures, the government reacted quickly, the first package wasn't, it wasn't so perfect, and by the densest of entrepreneurs, and after their intervention came the second package and ok. I personally have no major objections to that part, but what I want to say. That didn't save jobs, unfortunately, as HDZ colleagues say. It was an artificial breathing to a drowning patient, now that patient, and that patient is a Croatian economy, is currently on the respirator, and if he survives, we'll see. In the interest of all of us, it would be good to survive, unfortunately we don't know what the season will be, or if all these economic operators will survive. Now, I'm already seeing after these first five, six days of some kind of return to the economy in normal, and we see that the revenues have fallen terribly, and the question is, how is this going to end together, and then eventually we're going to see if these measures have had an effect or haven't. Unfortunately, here's my time, it's a little bit of that five minutes to talk about it all, but this Well, yes, I'll respond to the replicas, yes. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, but you will now be able to respond to colleague Leakovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206407	Dear representative Leakovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You warned your colleague, Djujic, that we are being imputed to the demeaning of the professional work of the civil protection headquarters, that is absolutely not true. What is actually happening is that this professional part of the work of the headquarters has been kind of overshadowed in the last few weeks as we have already warned and as visible from the daily presses by a political action of the headquarters, so sometimes it seems to me that experts and experts at headquarters actually degrade our common sense. However, what I am particularly concerned about is today's situation when Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozinovic in fact prevented Mr. Capak from answering the question asked by journalists, so I wonder whether Mr. Bozinović, in fact, is being demeaning, for example, the professional work of headquarters and the expertise of Mr. Capak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206409	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206410	Well surely fellow Leakovic, belittles, Mr Bozinović was what patriotic this was today you can speak, you can't, journalists ask one member of the headquarters he says I'll answer that question, it's not a topic. So yesterday, Mr. Capak said we'd go to the polls with, uh, self-insulating people with a mask and that's normal and that's okay. And that's contradictory of what they said a month ago, that's the problem, that's what we're warning you about. And then today, when the HDZ doesn't like Bozinovic there, it prohibits them from speaking and prohibits them from speaking. Look, that's the problem, Mr. Capak is a member of the HDZ, so it's not the devil that in this country all experts are in HDZ alone, that there are no other experts, I'm not saying that they have to be from the SDP or any other party, let them be impartial, I believe there are. But the problem is, let's say, home in Split, home in Koprivnica, the problem is when they're on that political, Mr. Capak is there because he's politically placed on his post, that should be clearly said, the Emperor is naked, we go to the elections and he is there not because he is the best in Croatia but because he is a member of the party. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206411	Now, now, you've exhausted my tolerance and more of it's not a replica, and I'm not going to tolerate any responses to the replicas. I'll make warnings. which has nothing to do with the subject. [[/Intruder: What?]] This next individual debate was supposed to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate, so he will be the next respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say immediately in the beginning that this very important topic should be spoken of here without any restraints and pointed to all problems because the budget is a document that covers all aspects of the political action of the Croatian Government and when you see this document you must be concerned about what will happen at the end of this year. So, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that already in these technical changes that we have made possible by Minister Marić over the past few months, the crisis has been all sucked up, for example, from the economy and the promotion of certain business activities. So these programmes are almost all deleted from the budget for the past two months and you can see that they are not even returning to this budget rebalancing and then the question is how do we and what do we generally expect from the Croatian economy and how we are going to help the Croatian economy to get on its feet and make sure that at the end of the year there are no more than 400,000 unemployed and that people start working as soon as possible. Because I will tell you colleagues and colleagues the problem is, and it will be very soon for Minister Maric to see the consumption and rework of part of the Croatian economy that will not start working quickly, nor will these traffic be so generous, that it is likely that one large part of the hospitality will fail, and on the other hand, the country's income will be much less. And now that it can be done without talking about the unemployed who will further escalate when we remove this measure of 4,000 kuna, which, by the way, is no longer planned in the budget for the next 3 months, what was initially announced 3 + 3, unfortunately, is no longer in the budget. And what I have to say is that this is the budget and this whole story and announcements and talks of the Prime Minister who will discuss certain reforms, the savings in the area of salaries in the state sector, all together only in terms of elections. Because when you see that in 2 months he has failed to agree and eventually the unions do not agree, and they can understand why the unions do not agree, since they see that there is no coherent policy or any special policy, it is clear that Plenkovic wants to hold elections as soon as possible, try to renew the mandate and then do what he was supposed to do in the talks at the moment. Prepare the state for a few years of major crisis. His only problem is that he won't be able to do it, and we're going to lose months and months of time, and that crisis is going to be much longer than it's supposed to be. And no one here can argue with that. Neither can Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Perić nor Mr. Šuker from HDZ who are the only ones left here and not Minister Zdravko Maric who is aware of what kind of ambition Croatia is falling into, and primarily because of the subordination of Mr. Plenkovic's mandate and not only what he said and fellow Djujic, it is terrible to watch these people now every day explain something that is not explained to us. They started with why they can't do theatres and cinemas and they can hold Masses today, yesterday tells Mr. Capak that people who are in self-insulation can go free to vote and, of course, people no longer have absolutely no confidence in that company, and it would be best if they stop working. Here I suggest that these "missions" at 2 o'clock that we watch every day, or we watch, I haven't seen it in a month, to stop because they're starting to bother people. That would be best for those people themselves and HDZ. Here's a tip, give it to Plenkovic, if he's smart, he'll take it. On the other hand, it is a shame that the city of Zagreb is not even touched by this budget in this situation. 100 million kuna of 40 billion damage, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing, zero. I have proposed an amendment that would increase this to 400 million kuna to try to start to rebuild it, that the state start rebuilding its facilities, that KBC Zagreb start renewing its facilities, Traum, Petrova, so that schools can start working from the state level, given that Bandic's not even beaten, he has spent everything on his godmothers, and it is embarrassing that there is no Rehabilitation Act, that if he is in the Government, he will not be in the Parliament, and it is shameful that the Government of the Republic still has not stood behind the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Plenkovic's chair is important, the minister's chair but the citizens of the city of Zagreb are unfortunately not important for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206413	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206414	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you spoke in your debate you said that unfortunately despite the government's measures, after all this, one large part of the entrepreneurs will fail. That's unfortunately true and that's what the same attention should be about because now that we're going to open the economy doesn't mean that everything will come back as soon as two months ago, three, unfortunately not, we look at every day that people have less income, that one large part of the people haven't opened up at all because they have higher labour costs than to open up, but you know what they're not going to fail? It won't fail those entrepreneurs leaning on HDZ, e.g. who this company founded three, four months ago. from Istria, which by direct decision of Minister Horvat, received a million-dollar job to obtain masks. She was supposed to get 20 million in government, so when the public got up then under the table they agreed on the job without a public tender and then we see that the nephews of the influential HDZ from Osijek, you won't fail, let's say, and these are the same forms of incentives from this government that should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206415	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative. The answer, I'm sorry, is the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206416	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you are absolutely right, unfortunately HDZ is also using these situations to help with its interesting lobbyes, which are likely to finance the HDZ campaign tomorrow. So not only do they use the crown to put citizens and elections at risk when they think the most answers are selfish, but they use the crown not only them but also their Bandic flock in the city of Zagreb to check out some HDZ builders who raised chimneys at multiple prices, I got this information, to see why and how this situation is used and why there is no law. There is no law so that it can be hunted in a blurry, that citizens earn hundreds and millions of kunas on accidents, and that's the problem of colleagues and colleagues, and that's what we need to talk about here. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic to listen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206417	The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206418	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, here's my colleague Maras, I share your thinking here that we shouldn't have put things under the rug and all these structural problems that the Croatian economy has, unfortunately, now that we're just going to feel these consequences of this crisis that hit us and I agree with you in that part when you mentioned the city of Zagreb, the damage from the earthquakes that exist here but I'm going to fill you up a little bit, and I'm going to say that the great parts of the Krapina-Zagorje County are a special pillaric area, affected by the earthquake, and I also don't see any aid measures in this budget for people who unfortunately lost their fault over their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206419	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206420	There's no help, but unfortunately there's no law. So these HDZ, HNS and Bandic games have already made everyone sick. So now there's going to be some chemistry going on again, like the government law, so he's going to be released for debate, so ask God if he's going to get to Parliament, scary. If it hadn't been for two months. Enough to pass a legal solution? So when HDZ needs campaign money, the election law changes in a week, remember that, Mr. Rainer? Remember when it was raised to enable HDZ Yeah, that's the theme for two months. There is no law on Zagreb and when HDZ needed money for the European elections campaign [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Maras, this is not a topic, we are talking about budget rebalancing.]] Why are you guys after me right now? [[/Intruder Reiner: I am giving you a reminder based on art. 239, because you're not talking about the subject, please talk about the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206421	Thank you very much, we have the next replica of Honored Representative Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206422	Here's colleague Maras, you'll now have a chance to say something and I hope you respond to this replica, thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think I know anything about the economy, colleague Maras, but I heard something about when the crisis is then to be spent, and especially that we need to invest in the state, so now we need strong state investments, and I don't think our generation is going to have this opportunity to make one simple and structurally different view of whether it's state, economy and state finances, and that's this opportunity of double crisis. Is the crisis caused by Covida-19, and on the other hand the crisis which could be an exceptional opportunity for the recovery of the domestic construction sector, industry, etc., which is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and, if I remember correctly, I will not quote, exactly but something about it was said in his own time by one famous macro-economyist John Maynard Kaynes when he said that Let's say for the recovery of the building or industry, we really needed this kind of crisis... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206423	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206424	Well, I absolutely agree with you. So this would be a chance to have a normal situation in the City of Zagreb to help and move on to a certain investment cycle, together Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia and to go through the crisis more easily. They'd hire a branch of industry. The problem is, of course, what is always in Croatia in such a situation is that the dishonest people associated with, for example, HDZ or Milan Bandic's party who are then trying to make extra money, not to work fairly, to earn, but to earn 2-3 times as much as they should. I agree that we must also enter this crisis with additional state spending and public spending, should be very careful with certain pay regulation and in the public sector we should go to reforms, those who work should keep their status, those who do not work should be rerouted to the real sector. So I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President for another replica, no, well, okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206425	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Zekanovic, he is missing, and then the next one will lose the right to speak, of course, and the next individual debate will be representatives of Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the library finally opened on 4 May and a half, many were amazed at how many lines were created in front of the libraries, let's say one of them was a booklet in Zadar, and that's a lot of them, which asked many people how it happened? However, this did not surprise those who are engaged in culture, art, who follow cultural policy in isolation in which we spent a good part of this spring, we survived because of the book, because of the film, because of the poetry and because of the picture and there is no really negative answer to the question whether we need culture and art in crises, it is exhaling and asking, we need culture and art even more. However, in the proposal for amending and supplementing the budget, unfortunately I do not see that the HDZ government and its cultural administration are actually leading to this. So, with this budget rebalance, the budget of the Ministry of Culture is smaller if I have calculated correctly by about 8% and it actually at the end of the term of the HDZ Government seems to be approaching again the 2017 amounts instead of just following what I was saying earlier, and this is a strong public consumption and the need for state intervention of investment in culture and art are increasing by confirming that work in culture and art is important, necessary and valuable. The example for strong public investment in culture is today in some EU countries, as have inspired examples, even nearly 100 years ago. So, for those major depressions, the major economic crisis in the United States when it was defined there as a kind of new transaction and this wide procedure of Roosevelt's then administrations of culture and art made widely available creating conditions for the work of American artists, cultural workers on the one hand, and making culture and art available to the other so as to enable them to participate freely in various cultural and artistic programmes and, in fact, here, for almost 100 years, it does not differ from what is in some way the priority of cultural policy or cultural policies of the EU, which is participation, participation in culture, and in this way, the fight against social exclusion and economic inequality, intolerance and prejudice. Of course, the American administration could have said it, so look, it's not a priority, so change your violins or saxophones or ballet slippers, shovels, hooks or rubber boots and you do agricultural or construction. Fortunately, it wasn't like that, and I think it could be such an inspiration from history for us to learn about. I think that workers and workers in culture and artists and artists certainly expected Minister Obuljen Koržinek and Prime Minister Plenkovic to do both in work, not only in principle and gently as they only know how they trust and respect Croatian artists and their work. I can't even believe that the minister, or that Prime Minister Plenkovic, doesn't want in this crisis and the one that's just followed by Croatian artists filming, pretending to write, dance, produce, and in this way we actually have documented this difficult situation, this disaster that we found ourselves in, that in a few decades or just a few years, we can actually look back and say how we lived in Croatia and survived the crown and finally the earthquake and how we got away with it. I don't have much time today, I have submitted several amendments to the draft of this amending budget, but I would still like to warn that I don't think that I should have cut myself on the means of an operational programme of effective human potential i.e. Social inclusion funds, cultural participation. I do not think the first to hit should have been the means for innovative artistic practices because just such artistic practices can now be expressed in new circumstances when there are still no live performances but are also transmitted through some new digital internet platforms. I also warn again that it is indeed a generational project not only for citizens and citizens of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but also for all Croatia and all artists and artists. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be accepted by the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206427	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206428	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am only interested in the fact that you have beautifully elaborated on how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced funds for culture, are you aware that it has also reduced the cultural resources spent by local self-government units since it has reduced income tax resources, which are actually the source of funding for cultural events at municipal and urban levels. And now one inconsistency, so the Ministry of Issues CRO card or card and hints at attracting domestic tourists and I'm now asking a question, and what are these domestic tourists going to do on that sea, or are they going to sit in their apartment that if they manage to pay with that poor money they've secured on that CRO card system in the first place? Is he just gonna take a bath? Will they be allowed to bathe from communal directors who should separate bathers who are not far enough away from each other? Please explain to me who's going to make it up to everyone if we can't at the local level and in the state they don't actually want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206429	Thank you, esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206430	Yes, colleagues Ahmetović, and you have just warned about what we saw in the city of Zagreb already happened and the city of Zagreb has, in fact, the largest budget for culture, and there it happened that in April, in fact, the mayor of Zagreb, M. Bandić, has completely suspended the payment of funds that are related to public needs in culture, so that in the capital that has the most cultural institutions, and I am sure that both the most workers and workers in the sector, we can now see especially when it comes to independent culture, the consequences of such a destructive policy. And of course we can't expect that the tourist season when you talk about it, and you come from Krk, so it will be successful and that we will attract more tourists in favourable epidemiological conditions than otherwise if the sea and the sun can't offer them what is popularly called a cultural product. So culture in any case is not just a cost, culture represents investment and, of course, it is also a job for many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206431	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Panenic, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and next, he's going to speak to the respected representative Marko Vesligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206432	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is every time we discuss the budget, when we are discussing budget rebalancing, this is the first time actually, at least now I think in this mandate that we are discussing budget rebalancing, in this half-year period we usually had rebalancing at the end of the year, but we are all aware that the circumstances are extraordinary, primarily because of the crown of the virus, but also the second thing of course why we are doing today's budget rebalancing are the upcoming elections. As some of the most important documents that this High House always brings, there are always some budgets, there's always some kind of winners and losers, what we can see first from this I'm going to say to the extraordinary budget is that this time the loser doesn't get too much at least when you scratch a little bit, yet there are, a colleague now mentioned a culture here, I'm going to add that a certain loser is also a sport because it gave up some infrastructure investments that were supposed to go through the State Order for Sports but I'm going to say even understandablely in this situation. Obviously, we are also changing a certain economic paradigm not only here in Croatia but also at EU level, and that deficit is obviously not as old as it was, so when we get into such a situation, then we return to certain postulates from the past that some economists sometimes like to call out of date, that they are anacrons but in these situations, we need them very much. Already a few colleagues have mentioned here on both sides of the assembly this one will say a problem that has local self-government, which by freeing the income tax really lost a lot of its assets and will not be able to compensate them through any unambiguous loans or through any other measures because indicators are as they are, but the situation on the ground where you are some kind of line I will say to the citizens, that citizens first address local self-government is anything but easy. Since there are some very vague instructions that come from the national headquarters, from HZJZ, here I will mention a concrete example of kindergartens that you have a situation that if one parent does not work, then can't have his children in kindergarten, that you have a situation so that those who haven't given children to this week in kindergarten can't now give it 2 i.e., then you have the demands of course parents which is why we now have to pay the kindergarten in this period when we don't give children or can't, we can't give it, of course that local children are expected and certain support to the economy, that we will have to help the citizens and we haven't helped them through these measures of government which I must stress that however the opposition here has supported them with certain proposals that were unfortunately not supported, then I would like to see a little bit more sensitivity for local self-government, for all of all the people who do so much in the civil work, but who do not make it in the same way of the civil service to the public service. I'm going to mention that here's something like this from a local point of view, with a regional little regret about this measure for mountain-mounted space that I see that they stayed at some level despite the fact that we've been looking for a certain increase here, but what makes me even more sad and more convinced that we need one change, that we need a different law on mountain-mountan space when you see one of those funds where for mountain-mounted areas you're giving us the means of setting up squares along the seashore itself, for some monuments in Slavonian plains, for editing office spaces in certain cities or municipalities, that's one bad direction in which we go instead of supporting agriculture, I'm pushing that people to live in those areas we've set up funds on an absolutely non-transparent criteria and political likeness. It's bad and we should stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206433	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206434	I'm interested in you talking about the budgets, the budget and the budget of your unit of local self-government in part. I am interested in what you will finance or co-finance kindergarten, which will be co-financed by the school superstandard, from which you will co-finance or finance scholarships to students, you have given up municipal fees, communal contributions and many other measures you have taken. What we've heard here is that the government hasn't given up the projects, but the government hasn't given up suspicious public procurement because there's money, but money that doesn't go where it's supposed to go. Here, explain to me, colleague, is it possible that no one in this country understands that the government has given up 60% of the income of local self-government units, not its own income, is it possible that these revenues are what our parents count on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206435	Thank you. Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206436	Thank you very much. So here, when we discussed measures here, then I said that these measures that the government represents which of its own that it should nevertheless present them as, at least partly as measures of local self-government, given how direct the losses are due to the primarily tax-relieving income were units of local self-government. Look, this year, we're gonna hold out, we've got this loan, and we're probably gonna be able to finance it. My only question is, then, what's waiting for us in 2021, people are used to a certain standard that I'm going to say to smaller environments much less than it is in big cities. However, if we are not able to provide adequate accommodation for children in kindergartens, unless we provide some education in elementary schools, arranged homes of health, I wonder how many people we will be left with in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206437	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206438	I thank the esteemed Vice President. So, Ministers, I want to talk about the proposed rebalancing through positive things, through those I consider negative and ultimately in the light of the elections being announced. So, what is positive, and I particularly welcome is the fact that there are still other means to continue building fast roads that is 160 million kuna for 5 km from Farkaševec towards Bjelovar and 325 million kuna 7.5 km from Križevci to, according to Koprivnica, where public procurement must be opened at the beginning of the 6th month. I also welcome the fact that this budget has found a solution to help the economy that has covered the salaries of employees in those entities who have suffered the economic effect in this crisis in 3rd, 4th and 5 months, and that is what I find positive. What I want to point out to you is that about this help to the economy that has been assessed about 8 billion kunas that you have actually managed to move it, to settle the redistribution within the budget itself, and then I don't like the way you've done it, we don't know how you've been communicating with other ministries, but you have a situation that, let's say, Croatian roads on their 3 billion kuna budget have reduced their budget by only 202 million kuna while, say, one very important segment, and that's the Central State Sport Office, which had really miserable 16 million kunas for the construction of sports infrastructure and 14 million for local sport and the project Croatia swims without that 30 million. So, did it really take one project that was already in the selection phase to which 400 clubs applied, 400 small sports communities to the full? I think you made a mistake here and you had to do a checkup so let's see if the roads on the islands were cut by 812 by just 10 million kuna. So you took all the sport instead of taking the roads to the islands instead of 10, 40 million kuna. Just to see what's important is how much we like to present ourselves through sports in Europe and the world, how much politics and politics are full of sports from national stadiums to I don't know what kind of investments, and you don't even have negotiated funding of such objects from the EU, and neither from the national budget and at this time the crowns when children are on computer classes, when they're too much for computers you've managed to leave them without those basic material conditions, and I believe you're aware that they're objects that were made in the '50s, same after the war, same when there was no money and when there was a crisis. What I consider to be the greatest minus of this proposed rebalancing is the fact that you do not project in it, nor do you foresee potential aid for the economy by 6th, 7th, 8th or 9th, 10th, 11th month when the possibility of returning the crown is mentioned, but also the embarrassing amount of 100 million kuna for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, so much for the reduction of income tax at the monthly level and here is shown one contempt for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. You see here there were broken chandeliers, chimneys in the government and the assembly, and it wasn't waiting, but it got rid of it right away, and all these people in the city center, in the area, waiting for their chance to rebuild, you gave them 100 million and you didn't tell them if this is a rebalancing for this year that you're going to give them anything more and we still see that there's not even in the procedure of the Law on the City of Zagreb. I believe that this is a budget called the fog with which no elections are allowed, that the key basis for future elections should be precisely the key objectives of the 2021 budget to see if there will be a reduction in expenditure or if you will continue to hold the expenditure, whether you will be in debt and whether you will again as in previous crises equalise all tax, single VAT rate or even raise VAT in order to settle expenditures or that you may be able to repay loans if you maintain this level of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206439	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206440	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lacković mentioned the sport, in fact you prepared it in context or compared it with the revenues of Croatian roads. So, actually with the reduction on Croatian roads where you said it was only almost 7%, these are the revenues that they count to have less on different grounds, so they did not deny anything.../incomprehensible/... as well as Croatian highways and other extra- budget users will have slightly less income on a different basis. And as for sports, I've repeatedly stressed here that we should use this now to change things structurally. It's not just about infrastructure, the thing and the cost of keeping it, it's about how they finance sports that primarily run units of local self-government, and we have to turn to people, to children, and put it as a basis for funding each sport. Working with children and how many children are involved in sports, not how the senior team works or whether someone.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206441	Thank you. Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206442	So, thanks for the replica, I agree with you that the question of sports and sports infrastructure is very important. The fact that they had a slightly reduced income was not a reason not to complete the competition, a project that was called upon to register 400 small clubs that wanted to paint their locker rooms, which wanted to buy aluminum goals so that no one would get hurt, who wanted to improve their capacities, people invested in the funds they hoped for something and now came the crown and said no more. So that's how we can really see how long then the redistribution space is going to be, so we've spent, if we took that, then we've taken the last funds that we can redistribute. So I'm asking the question, well, where are we going to keep 147 million kunas of expenditure, we're going to re-indebt, and if we're going to borrow that revenue if we don't raise taxes, if we don't go over to the real sector, what are we going to pay back from?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206443	The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206444	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, I'm very glad that you mentioned sports, since I also said in my debate that it's very strange that it's not in this draft budget and that it actually gave up some of the investments for sports that are extremely important in small areas, you have to realize that there's a playground in the smaller environment that means a lot more than it does in some big city center. I also think it's an opportunity for one reboot to us in this area, and we're not about infrastructure, but also about one expert staff that I think we should have at all levels. So this is not a good one and it's not one nice message that's being sent primarily to young people they're the biggest users of these kind of sports fields, sports content team more than that if we look at the government a little bit of these infrastructure other projects, they haven't given up much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206445	Dear Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206446	So the message that was sent is clear, so we took the most sensitive ones and then what can we expect in the budget proposal for 2021. It is reportedly needed by the new majority, the new government should bring, and the government should, on the basis of the number of patients in Brač, so that is the issue of Brač. So, we can't go with the local themes and the cores of the virus, into an election cycle where citizens should know whether the real sector is going to pay back the cost of this crisis, what is going to happen to the economies that haven't fired for three months now, now they're going to fire, how many people are going to be, what are the projects and projections, where are you going to be in debt and how you're going to approach a serious problem? These are election questions, not questions, whether we are defending ourselves from the crown or not, and what relationship we are with Sweden or Denmark. This is a key question, so who will bear the burden of the crisis? And that's the main issue of future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206447	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206448	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm just going to take a quick look at the extra budget users, namely when we move HZO where we took them and secured a special loan of 2 billion kuna, and we know that we freed people from paying contributions then we get some balance of 400 million kuna for all the others less. Taking into account that Croatian waters plan to cut revenue of 900 million kuna, they also cut expenditures by 235 with something that needed 140 million kunas have gone to 500 almost 530 million kunas of loss. And then there's more or less of it left around here somewhere. Let's just say HAC plans to cut the income of 770 million, and parallelly means 1 in 2 or 50 lips per kuna goes and cut the expenditure, so even less than 320 million, which goes directly to the loss planned by 450 million kuna. And now I'm wondering that 320 million kuna that's going to cut costs, that's most likely non-preservation because everything else that way has to work. You've got people working on a checkout house, either 100 or 10,000 vehicles, fewer of which, of course, may not have been so much, but some base cost remains. And then we come up with that question that we need investment, that we need that stopper, that we need it not to stop and not to maintain it, don't stop and hire subcontractors because they certainly don't do it on their own, but they also have certain competitions that they're contracting to get jobs right now and to finance it from exactly what we've made possible, new borrowings. And that's something that's actually done the opposite of what the state has done. So the state remained at the level of the same expenditure so that it wouldn't generate indifference as well as to generate a certain offer with both this and demand, here they out-of- budgeted themselves and maybe this was the same opportunity, so when we talk about HAC, that a new way of managing and new way of charging, what we've been saying all along, uncontactively and vignettes, etc., etc. Now it's an opportunity, maybe we're already late, but now maybe it was an opportunity to restructure a lot of things. And what I was going to say, which is a lot of times mentioned by the Earthquake Recovery Act, which is why I also submitted one amendment to better fix it, nomotechnically, nothing dramatic, so that the position that is now new to this rebalancing that is opening, which was a damage recovery, is actually to leave it the way it is, to be the position of rebuilding buildings and recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake, which remains 100 million to be used from that position for all the funding that will be covered by the special law that we have talked about today, by the World Bank loans, by using the Solidarity Fund so that we can and the redistribution of the law are already using the same position and having our share in financing and using these funds. So there is no confusion that this position is precisely the one that will be restored and used and paid for everything that is necessary. We can't talk by heart now until we have the law, but we can have a position, we can call it that, and I think it's just clear and loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206449	Thank you, we have two replicas, so you're too late. He is the first respected representative of Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206450	So, fellow question for you, do you think 100 million kunas are foreseen for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb due to the earthquake, is that serious money? If you think he's serious, then please explain how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206451	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206452	I can ask you the question, do you think of a family who has lost their incomes, that 10,000 kuna is serious money? Maybe not to you, it's a lot of serious money to them, or 20,000 kuna. One family to make a normal life possible, that's a huge amount of money. Is that money for all the damage we've suffered, so it's nothing, but when we look through one family, and these are the funds, I just said, so I went with the amendment, to leave the budget to be 10,000 kuna item on the budget, but the law to arrange that we have an item, that we can act immediately after the law is passed, and this 100 million is precisely for these families to allow them to get rid of the chimneys, to allow them how much they are so much that tomorrow when we go to co-finance the costs and designing those damaged buildings, we also have a budget item that we can tie up all the payments. So we always have to look through the prism of one man, and there are 1,000 kunas today very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206453	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. ... You used a colleague of yours, Pernar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206454	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to pick up where I left off with the replica, so a few more facts about health care that are very important to me, and in this budget rebalancing, you probably haven't been able to deal with them enough. Therefore, after this crown of crisis, our health workers who have done a great job, we can all agree, waiting for a very difficult time because a return to regular activity will be a meeting with the biggest debt in the history of health care of the Republic of Croatia. Before the crisis, the total debt was more than 9 billion kuna, the liabilities of 4.3 billion, are now certainly closer to 5 than they are to 4, and given the increased work due to the never-long waiting lists that have been extended in the meantime, the health care is waiting for additional costs and if no concrete steps are taken by Mr. Minister, the health care will certainly be ahead of the collapse in the case of a new epidemic wave which, fortunately, has avoided us in this first wave, however. The direct costs of the health system caused by the current COVID epidemic 19 are now slightly more than 100 million kuna. So these are HZZ data, including costs of testing, hospital treatment and self-insulation disease. So this 2 months. It is an additional 100 million kuna cost of the health system. The new additional cost will come safely if I adopt a legitimate epidemiologist's proposal, that all who are going to go to surgery or search for hospital stay must be tested at COVID 19. According to HZZO data, there are about 700,000 hospitals in Croatia annually. So now add to that the cost of testing and all the additional diagnostic tests that all those who will come to the hospital and have to be COVID negative, so this cost has never been calculated anywhere, never existed before and will be an additional burden to our health system. So for the next eight months. We need to have increased work of the hospital system that has to compensate for everything that's been missed in this 2 months. and it's been missed, Mr. Minister, a lot. So, 40% less examinations were done, so HZZO says it's in this 2 months. a million 711 234 proceedings are carried out less. So we must be aware that this delay will certainly further increase mortality probably from malignancies if not some others. Here's an example of a pulse hospital, it has to make up for 13,000 hits. So the necessary material will be spent, healthcare professionals will work overtime not only in Pula during all of Croatia, and I hope that this will finally start to pay them. Therefore, these are all additional costs and at the same time the health budget is understandable, expected, due to the problem of the economy, is not being charged according to the plan, and it is expected to be more than 2 billion kunas less on the HZZO's income side and will not achieve the planned budget of 27.5 billion kuna, which means that this will further prevent the repayment of debt that is not calculated anywhere. In February, therefore, Minister Beros said that the total debt of health care had reached 9.4 billion kuna, out of which the debt of hospital health was 4.3 billion kuna. Hospitals were making 145 million kunas of new debt a month, for the next 8 months. That amount will be even bigger, just for these reasons that I listed. But none of it has any figures and no letters in this rebalancing, so please, since we or some other parliament will probably have a new rebalancing soon, to finally try to use this crisis, I will say that for the reboot of the health system. So that the health system starts working on different principles, that hospitals are financed differently and that we provide a financially sustainable health system. If you did not pay attention to the health system, it best shows the following example. The Parliament recently adopted amendments to the Law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which said that 200,000 new insurance companies will need an additional 160 million kuna in 2020, which would mean for the remaining 8 months, 93 million kuna, nowhere in the plan of income and expenditure of HZZO where the figures remain the same as before this law. So either it's a pre-election story or you forgot that you had to enter it into the HZZO fund those additional funds that the state would have to pay HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206455	We've got a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206456	Thank you. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I am pleased that you mentioned this question, so during the parliamentary debate, we warned that it was just a pre-election law, a voluntary health insurance law, in which the claims on 200,000 citizens and 160 or 170 000 kuna were put on the table. HSU then had a good bill that would cover, which would significantly increase censorships and probably cover most of the citizens but on a realistic basis and therefore would be sufficient. What was astounding in that debate was the minister or secretary of state here said that he had the oral promise of Minister Maric, beware of the oral promise that he would find the money, however, as you now see no money. It is an unserious preparation of the law, unserious behaviour towards the Croatian Parliament, towards Croatian citizens and, therefore, as we now see, there is no money and it was just a pre-election trick to convince people that their situation will be better and it is the poorest layer of Croatian citizens and pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206457	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206458	Thank you very much, yes, colleague Sagar, that unfortunately shows indifference. I even believe that Minister Maric was not even aware that the law was passed, that changes were made and that it should have been introduced but was needed by someone from the Ministry of Health to report it. Therefore, now to ignore this part of the problem not even for the part that they wanted to show through this pre-election story did not provide funds in the budget, which is only an additional debt that will have health care because the state does not now meet its obligations to the Ministry of Health, based on the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, where every year they pay about a billion kuna less than they should and equally, one other resort that also covers the needs of health care, the health needs of the protégé, the social resor, did not provide funds for increasing the salaries of nurses and the purchase of protective equipment in retirement homes which are particularly risky and should be further prepared for the next wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206459	The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206460	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for amending and supplementing the national budget for 2020 provides for a reduction of expenditure for police employees and for other expenditure on employees and a reduction of EUR 65 million. In a situation where these employees, police employees and, of course, healthcare professionals, along with civil protection and firemen, have exposed their health and life to defend and preserve the health and life of 4 million inhabitants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to break the consequences of its inability to maintain such stability of the Croatian economy. Until yesterday, the government boasted of an unprecedented budget surplus, misleading the public with incorrect projections of GDP growth because it was counting on elections in the fall and it was worth starting with an optimistic story to actually justify its successful mandate by autumn. But the corona came to the government as an order to justify everything she had deceived the public with that very crown. I remember, Minister of the Horvat Economy very knowingly in a live show, he manipulated that the requirements for wage reduction and expenditure in the public sector meant and the reduction of wages, and, behold, the miracles, the police, the fire department and health workers, and he asked rhetorically whether it meant that we should reduce their rights by putting ourselves in the role of the great protector of the rights most responsible for the defence of health and life in this corona crisis. As an economist, I have not heard a relevant talker who has advocated a reduction in the rights of healthcare, police and emergency services, but I have heard that the total mass of salaries generated in any agencies that are themselves or just that mass of mercenaries or subscribers I would say, the purpose. From manipulation to execution, according to the government's prescription to the execution of the existence of those whom Minister Horvat manipulatively singled out to differentiate political insinuators. But let's get back to the budget rebalance. With this rebalancing, the government proposes to reduce the expenditure on police employees of 65 million kuna, and this applies to the material rights of employees, jubilee awards, goddesses, gifts to children and regressions, and I could support that reduction and even if I didn't know how much the average salary of a police employee who is exactly the one from the beginning of my first line of defense, not only in this situation of the health crisis but every day, for 4500 kuna a month that policeman risks his life and his health, at the daily level suffers the threat of not only physical but also mental health even when there is no such sinister pandemic. Then when most of us don't suffer from anything, that cop's terrified that we wouldn't have to worry and earn a salary of $4,500. Any addition to that salary to it is a fire in which you will-not, people with that level of income are found every month and are now left without it. We all know Croatia here, there are chronic lack of police officers. And despite the lower criteria for hiring these cops, does anyone think it's normal to agree to this kind of crying, 4500 kuna, wearing a head in a bag every day? You call for the solidarity of the whole society, so not the solidarity of those who do not have but those who have or have too much. Those who don't have, have nothing to solidarity with. By reducing the material rights of police officers, the few police officers who still stand on the defender of the country's security regardless of the crown or without it will not stand for long. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia police officers are not needed but are some others, it is essential that an employee in the administration of a regional fire department financed from the state budget. It takes so much to be paid out of public funds by the university and there are essential employees but they are not police officers. An essential employee, ladies and gentlemen, is, say, the chief advisor to HERA. The basic gross salary of that advisor, listen, 26 500 and he is so essential that despite meeting the conditions for retirement, he will not retire yet but will continue to work at HERA. And there are a number of other essential employees who unfortunately collect their loyalty to one foreigner, the money of all taxpayers, the essence of this rebalancing which is nothing more than stroking our eyes to all of us, cutting off those who really work and leaving or deepening the syncure to those who have been squeaming us for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206461	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206462	Thank you very much. So, fellow Ahmetovic, you were talking about a completely reckless reduction in the salaries of police officers, and I have to rely on that because when we have all realized that the oldest in the case of the COVID 19 epidemic, nothing is done to protect themselves and that in this budget, funds are already being put in place to ensure better protection so that 1800 nurses working in retirement homes have insufficient protective equipment, one sister comes to 89 wards with mental impairment, employers are taking away their vacation days, homes are without computers, sister lists are being held manually and no funds in the ministry. Bedekovic is not expected to, however, avoids responsibility because the chamber has asked her for an urgent suspension in the payment of nurses' salaries, employed in nursing homes. So another example of how this government doesn't recognize the right priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206463	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206464	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I would just point out and add to what you said and the fact, I was hoping to find in the budget the increase in salaries to police officers when the material rights had already expired, but I didn't find them even though the officers were hoping for a 1% increase since 1 June, and they were hoping for an increase of 2% since 1 January 2021, we're talking about the ESS, and they were hoping for a 3% increase in the 3% of the 1st of September for the VSS and we understand each other, and that's nothing compared to the absolute amount of this percentage is nothing, given how small these wages are. However, no, they will be left without it, but even without what it means to them, this is the kind of patching up of their poor budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206465	The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, I am very pleased that you have actually mentioned how miserable this salary is in this case of a police officer or a police officer, so it is some 600 euros because in public space very often it is said that our public and state officials are etc. Prepaid, that there are too many of them, that they don't do their job well herl. And then where it goes to cut, it goes to cut first, so on these public needs let's say so. I think it is extremely important to point out constantly how important it is to maintain a certain level of wages and material rights in the public and state sectors, why? Because if we're going to strip down to the end of a really strong anti-corruption element, how important it is that judicial employees, that cops, cops, get paid well, it's certain that corruption has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206467	The answer of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206468	Thank you very much. counterpart Leakovic, yes, I agree, may need to reduce the amount of salaries in the public sector, but the amount of salaries that were made to the agencies only to be set up, to the state institutions that were founded only to form, the people who have from the secretary of the secretaries of the secretaries. These masses of wages are the ones to be cut and not the masses of wages or salaries of those who have the lowest wages and their safety, their health, their life most exposed to this country in order to preserve the lives of those and the health of those who do not care about the health of those who safeguard that health, if you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206469	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206470	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, you mentioned police officers and police officers, I join your warning there, and I would like to add to this situation where we see Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers in the Government, Maric and Minister of Labour, trying to force teachers, teachers, as well as to reduce their wages, given that as well as the lack of full work and the crisis had ruled and were not at the disposition and I know that teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers in schools are working now and more. Here today, two, three kids in class are in class, and then when they come home, they work with the other kids online. So it would be a great injustice to cut off those personnel that have been paid for years now that they've finally got certain rights, now they're using the crown to take it back, we can't let that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206471	Thank you. Dear representative, nothing. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206472	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, it is good that you have mentioned that it is unacceptable to reduce salaries and the rights of employees of the MUP or police because we have repeatedly debated and asked that they have higher salaries, that they have better equipment and that they have more rights and are not only a problem of wages but also material compensation for their other rights, for example, a large number of police officers from Slavonia are working in Dalmatia and with such a small salary they cannot afford to pay for either the apartment or the accommodation or the food, and many are therefore giving up and leaving the police, and it is unacceptable to reduce their wages when we talk about the need to invest in this system. And secondly, you were talking about agencies and that some should be abolished, so here, this government has abolished about 20 agencies under the parole of savings, the selection service has been abolished, the Croatian Agricultural Agency has been merged with the Ministry of Agriculture, we haven't seen these savings, and on the other hand I have information that these employees have also been paid an increase, so one is abolished, others are still paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206473	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206474	Thank you very much. A colleague, so I would like to demystify the amount of these material rights, these jubilee awards, these Christmases or similar let's say firefighting measures that people survive that month for which they actually did. So these are the miserable amounts with which the government will save absolutely nothing. What's the fact that these people consider themselves and call each other public arrests just because they wear an official uniform and no one thinks about how these official uniforms actually force them to be on the road, force them to be happy with such a small salary that they work on Sundays or nights that some fund makes hours thicker and some kind of salary such a decent profit they haven't been able to feed their children, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206475	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206476	Dear chairmans, they say the crisis has come, say we must all bear part of the burden and that we should all bear some kind of sacrifice. I know that many owners of space didn't charge, say, a full rent or the same thing with landlords. I know that certain duties have been reduced or suspended, but there is one category in society, one sacred cow that gives up nothing. These sacred cows are private banks that even the conditions of the moratorium continue to account for the loans of their debtors. Of course, it should be noted that certain groups do not even have the right to moratorium, such as those of tourists who travel to Plitvices from e.g. China, they have buses, they're banned from working, their tourists don't have, but the rates of lying come on the charge no matter what. And what happens in the end? Finally, we have a situation where debt is growing exponentially, that banks have actually profited most in this situation and, of course, they will be able to buy property and citizens and shares, etc., which has now dropped value due to all of this and the question is, who is actually the holder of government in the country if everyone has to give up and one category, banks have to give up nothing, the question is, are banks owners of Croatia or better said, real persons who have a position of power and power? My guess and the thesis is that they are, it's my thesis that they are above the state because as I said, what they are allowed to do, what they can do, nobody else can do, and nobody complains about it, did they see the media? The same media that crucify this government, the same media that crucifies all possible people and non-humans in this country, banks that don't want to give up interest, don't mention. Why? Why is it allowed to spit on Marić, on Šuker, on me, on Maras, Boric, Lackovic and every other person in this country, but there are no media spit banks even though they do what complete society normally does and what they shouldn't do in the normal state. Now I'll tell you why, because the banks are media owners, the same hand rules everyone. Someone's going to tell Mr. Pernar that some media isn't the owner of a bank, it's true that it isn't, but the owner of that media depends on these banks. I remember once there was a contribution to an act, we were in the field, a journalist told a private television station, Ivan, we can't tell which bank it was because we're in charge of them right now, so it would be awkward. The same thing with the state, the state raises billions of moons of credit with these same banks as embarrassing to talk against them, yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how banks are through lending and here you have Ninoslav Pavic, so-called. The EPH holding as much as they owed this man and indirectly controlled the contents of the Morning List, etc., because the Jutarnji List went against the banks, the question is would the banks say that, yes, Nino can take you and the 10th mortgage on them 9 of them on the building in Odranska. I'm trying to point out to you, dear citizens, and it's up to you to trust me or not to trust me. You can trust those journalists and editors and the media who claim to be free and independent, if they weren't bribed, if they weren't under the rule of the banks or the state or whoever, and you can trust me as well, who I'm saying that the media is generally, under great influence, dared to say, the crucial influence of both banks and states or that the vast majority of the media in Croatia is not independent and objective. So let's just remember the famous Hanžekovic Mason who was always ironing over me through the Jutarnji list, although now he is no longer alive but the Jutarnji List continues in the same direction as Mr. esteemed favorite of the people, whom the President calls a great humanist and philanthropist, where he left off. Well, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206477	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be respected representatives of Glasovac, not having it, losing his right and the next one being spoken by respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206478	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here at the end of this debate we are all aware that this proposal is a change and a complement to the budget of the rebalancing relationship, in a certain way the consequences of the crisis caused by COVID 19 and all those measures and financial effects that we have behind us and that this has to be reflected in the budget, is an emphasis of course on the preservation of health, on the care of all our citizens, and there is another great congratulation for all public health workers, in hospitals, in all other institutions that have made their contribution but also a great thank to the citizens who have been responsible and stayed at home so we have good results. What worries me and us at HSS is that this second measure, which is the preservation of jobs, has certain shortcomings, and we think, above all, and I've already spoken to 30 thousand people who have lost their jobs in the meantime. There was a proposal to find an emergency model and a way to help them, we don't see it here in the budget rebalancing and I said already in the replica of the minister, the problem of seasonal labour from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema which will surely remain jobless in the coming months, because tourism obviously won't be and the minister has promised to find some model for them too, but here, in this rebalancing is gone. What's visible here is that the real question is what to invest in, what industries to invest in and how to invest in tomorrow because, of course, it's important for us to have every job but we need to determine strategically towards those industries, those branches that will employ as many people as possible and where people will have a large and quality job and quality personal income to live on from it. It is not good that 500 million kuna for the public sector has not been provided, although it is signed, so it is a bad message and keeping jobs in Croatia especially if we want an educated workforce then it is not possible to reduce their rights and personal incomes for the people who are the bearers of that, that quality workforce and quality education staff tomorrow. In Europe, we are talking about a green plan, about green measures, Mr. Timmermans emphasizes that forestry and the diagonal industry should be a future priority, from this rebalancing, we do not see that something more significant is being supported by the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia which employs over 50,000 people and who first felt the crisis caused by the coronary virus because most of them are exporters and we are asking that in the coming measures certainly this branch of the wood industry more specifically which processes wood mass into quality furniture and other products. What's not good is that the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection lost this rebalance with 432 million kuna. And these are mainly the funds that needed our home construction operation to provide water supply, water treatment, wastewater purification, waste disposal, and this gives us a picture and a message that we will continue to have a problem with waste disposal as last night was in Davor municipality where the dump was set on fire and I have repeatedly written Minister Coric's response to what is being brought there, what amounts, in which way he is being taken care of, we see that he is inadequately taking care of it and that he has been fuelled and loaded for the environment there and for drinking water for 60,000 people there and we are looking for answers and we are looking for answers and we are looking for the responsibility both of the minister and the mayor of the municipality. Of course, in my debate on agriculture, which only 0.6% received more funding here, the minister boasts on the ministry's pages with an additional 120 million kuna for direct payments and with amended rules that up to 70% may be paid up in advance by November and the rest to 100% will be secured in the state budget. These 20% to 30% which should be secured in the state budget are not even in this rebalancing, were neither in the 2020 budget nor in the budgets 2 or 3 years ago. Our agriculture is thus damaged by over 2.5 billion and with the right of the Association of Agricultural Producers is looking for and the peasant alliance of the new Agricultural Development Fund if we want to produce food then we have to invest in the village and agriculture and it is unacceptable that we now have about 2500 pigs of the breeders that our producers cannot sell, that the florists are in failure because they cannot sell flowers, that the winemakers have not sold any buttocks of wine, and that the minister is not saying anything about it, and that we are not talking about agricultural land because in 4 years she has not even 50 ha put into office through a public tender and there is no interpretation of the ban on the sale of land to foreigners even though she promised that it was a done thing, so I ask the ministers., what do you do or just take pictures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206479	Thank you very much. Now we have final words on behalf of the club of representatives, first of all that MOST and independent lists on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206480	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who have an interest in following this, Minister. This rebalancing i.e. This corona crisis is repeating it for I don't know which time, nakeded all the bad policies in the Republic so when we look at this rebalancing, it's essentially showing again that we don't care about those who are most responsible not only for this crisis itself but who care about health, who care about our children in schools, but as a Parliament, we didn't have the strength to make one decision, that is. The government, as a representative of the Government, did not have to bring a key and first measure and this measure should have meant moratorium on loans and interest banks, so that this effect of this rebalancing on our citizens will have nothing but a negative effect, as colleagues had just before and listed, from agriculture, from Croatian police officers, from all of those, from medical staff, all those who should have felt better in this crisis, who had to as well as the entire Croatian people who had to from the banks i.e. you had to have the courage to propose as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance, have the courage to defend this Parliament, that the moratorium on loans and interest because we know that the banks are the most polluted in the Republic of Croatia, that the people have invested most in these banks without going in, they go back far back into recapitalisation, but we know that the ministers, the banks have a profit of 4 billion kuna per year only on fees and fees that we have, 400 and more at these small amounts, but there is a huge amount of money. So this rebalancing isn't essentially revealing everything, not just about the crisis, but what's crucial for our citizens is that in this crown the crisis is essentially about this, because it's visible after Mr. Capak's statement yesterday that we can only go to the elections that we're in isolation and that we should have tracked our cell phones that simply this impact of closing the economy, the closure means tourism that is literally going to be in big trouble, the small tenants in big problems, the big one, all of which is going to be at this moment in huge trouble that simply this rebalance isn't helping those who needed help. Local self-government is mentioned, yes, local self-government has huge counties. Countys are the main brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia and I argue that no rebalancing, not a single budget on it counts, and basically a large part of the decentralised funds of the ministry, goes through, goes essentially for health care, education in the county, and that money goes who knows where to go because it goes where it needs to go, then we would have well-developed health care today, mainly in rural areas, but we have less and less health services and people are leaving us. One of the key problems that has been mentioned is the World Bank report, which says that the most people who receive money from, who have a large share of GDP from foreign transfers that our people who have moved out, send to their families and family members, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has 20% of GDP, the colleague is funny but it is the fact that our citizens have been evicted and that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And at this point, the World Bank says that 20% will be reduced funds from these figures, however, as far as Croatia is concerned, we are in the most risky group because we have 18 billion kunas a year from those people we have emigrated to poor policies. I asked the minister here and I expect him to answer me what with these people who have lost their jobs in Ireland and how much he expects a lack of money from the credits at the level of the budget, the effects, he can't, of course, he said himself, but the effects will be devastating. And we don't think about those people that we moved out and who came back, I don't know if they have any rights or any measure of direction towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206481	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will finally speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206482	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister Maric, at the end of this debate, I would like once again to highlight some of the most important proposals in front of the party Let's change Croatia. The word rebalancing means establishing a new balance. The expenditures remain the same, the kuna is not reduced, the revenues have fallen dramatically and will unfortunately fall even more, to establish this new balance, it's a huge minus, here says 25 billion kuna, so you have to be in debt. Could you make savings or cut expenses on some things? Yes, it is. I said in the morning that in these four years you could have saved 15 billion kunas that you had refinanced all debts, the kuna debts of the state, you didn't. I asked the IRS for information, asked how many taxes you have not charged in Croatia. They've answered 28 billion kuna. Dear citizens, if only 50% of them had succeeded, insisted, they had charged 28 billion kuna, that is 14 billion kuna tax. Add these 15 I said savings, that's 29 billion kuna, so my people, we'd have extra money from what it takes from 4 billion. These are the people who run this Croatia, but they taught themselves one thing, it doesn't matter what the deficit is, but we know how to put you in good debt. So you don't care about such arguments. Next, Mr. Minister, at 7pm. Comes, comes the euro bond of a billion and 250 million dollars. You're already negotiating how you're gonna take a new loan in dollars. So come on, man, pay it off from the foreign reserve already. We have a net foreign reserve of 15.5 billion euros, which is one of the largest foreign exchange relations compared to GDP in the EU, so don't lend us the end of our money, we keep our dollars, euro outside at 0% or 0.1, and then boast when you put us in debt for 0.75%, that it's a historic success. Well, that's terrible. Pay it off from foreign exchange reserves, please listen to what I'm proposing, so have strength, that's our money, so it's not Austrian and German, it's Croatian citizens' money, you have it, do it, I ask you. Furthermore, the return of the money that the debt agencies received because they sought minimum wage for their workers, one of the most famous debt enforcement agencies, was founded in 2013 for 500 000 kuna and today has retained profits of more than 400 million kuna. Does he tell you what that information is? That they systematically robbed Croatian citizens. You're looking for a return to the state budget tomorrow. You're looking for a return from casinos, bookies and all those who have a fat profit in recent years. There must be social justice in this country. And in the end, don't get into the euro area anymore, into the euro, why are you kicking? Well, you see, the public debt is going to break through almost 90%, no country where I was, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, not to speak Denmark, Sweden, but not to their minds. So who are you trying to show that we're in good shape, that we can take over the euro? Well, the euro zone has never been in a bigger crisis since 2008 than it is now, and it's even more of a problem. Let's stop, let's be wise, let's wait. Why do you hate our kuna, first of all, those who run the CNB, why do you hate our Kuna? Well, my people, now you have your own currency and your own central bank, so it's a blessing, let's use it. Therefore, suspend payments to II. Retire the pension column and that 500 million each month to save the economy. Look, I don't have enough time, concrete suggestions. And nothing and listen to this, stop paying off 87 million kuna support subsidies to members of voluntary pension funds. Why are you stimulating them now? Well, they have money anyway, it's not mandatory. Now I could put another hundred million together here. Dear citizens, I will stand here, the elections are at the door, only professional and honest people can save these countries with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206483	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, the first item will be the Final Proposal for the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. Have a nice evening. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-12-0.u206484	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 996. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes 79 for, 47 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 has been passed. If we are, that's the second and third item of the agenda, so let's now move on to the first point that we're going to discuss today is: - The final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the elderly, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. The proposal is proposed by the Government pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Before I give my word to the respected Labour and Pension System Minister Josip Aladrovic, there is a representative, Maras, please.
