ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199222	Mr. President, I have given the Legislative Committee the opinion that this law does not comply with the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 176 of this proposal for a law which has return provisions is not made accordingly, does not contain any particular reasons why it has a return provision in it. Therefore, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and therefore should not be discussed at the sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199223	Thank you, thank you. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here because Article 18 of this proposal states that there are no words in the form of retroactivity covered by Article 90. The Constitution, this is where the so-called so-called Constitution is done. The Constitutional Court has declared constitutionally legal in the Croatian legal order by taking over the institute from the practice of the EU court. This is the case in its Decision of 4 April 2017. The Constitutional Court established the following principled position. In retroactiveness, it is important to distinguish whether it is the final situation or the legal situation that is under way. If the regulation applies to the legal situation ended then retroactiveness can also be talked about, but if the regulation applies to the legal situations that are under way and applies to the congested relations that continue in the future, there is no retroactivity. So your complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure is off, and I now ask the Minister of Health to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199224	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and respected MPs, allow me to present briefly the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. As we witness, the Republic of Croatia, and the whole world faces a new challenge. This is a global pandemic caused by a new Sars-COV-2 coronary, which is called a pandemic disease called Covid-19. In December 2019, the disease occurred in the Chinese province of Hubei in the city of Wuhan, and in January the infection grew into an epidemic and slowly spread to the world. In 30.1.2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak an epidemic of Covid, a public health threat of international importance due to the rate of spread of the epidemic and a large number of unknowns in connection with it. Then on 11.3.2020, the World Health Organization declared the world pandemic and the Republic of Croatia an epidemic. The entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is considered to be an endangered or infected area. The first patient with Covid-19 was diagnosed in the Republic of Croatia in 25.2.2020. In response to this threat, we aim at the proposed amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases to find and enable the most effective way to manage the crisis in that situation of the global pandemic and local epidemic. The occurrence of this infectious disease, Covida-19, first encounters a new legal situation which is not explicitly provided for in the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and therefore appropriate crisis management models and appropriate epidemiological measures should be laid down. The existing legal framework does not fully cover the scale of this major crisis situation. No one could bear in mind the occurrence of a disease that is spreading so quickly and globally requires the adoption of a large number of measures that fundamentally alter the way of life we know it. The current institutional model of crisis management needs to be improved, cooperation by different institutions, the Ministry of Health, HZZ, civil protection headquarters, and under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Management of 2 fundamental principles of efficiency, efficiency and proportionality, and due to the continuing danger of an exponential number of patients, measures need to be developed to achieve a legitimate objective, which is to protect people's lives and health. Measures in the specific case of diseases characterised by rapid and unpredictable changes, and the constant risk of the growth of the sick must also be rapid, well-coordinated and fully considered and considered by experts from different areas. The implementation of measures to prevent entry, early detection and reduction of disease spread in the population is a constitutional obligation as well as an obligation arising from international health regulations and legal gains of the EU. The planned measures, as well as their intensity, should strictly meet the needs of the given moment and only last as long as these circumstances require. As you know in the Republic of Croatia at the moment we have 1104 patients with Covida-19, yesterday 54 new unfortunately, 31 patients died, of which six new patients died yesterday. 34 patients are on respirators and the mortality rate is 1.82%, among the lowest in Europe and the world. Honorable MPs and MPs, let me also give you a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. It is contained in the following articles. Art. 2st century 4th subst. 1. The Constitution according to which the Croatian Parliament independently determines in accordance with the Constitution and the law in order to regulate economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. Next up, Art. 70. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing everyone the right to a healthy life and everyone is obliged, as part of their powers and activities, to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment; and 16. The Constitution, in accordance with which freedoms and rights can only be restricted by law, in order to protect the freedom and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom or right must be proportionate to the natural need for a restriction in each case. Let me briefly describe the objectives of this amendment to the law. These are: to enable even more effective crisis management in a situation where the global pandemic is declared by the World Health Organization, while at the same time an epidemic has been declared in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The concept of COVID-19 disease, the Republic of Croatia, first encounters a new legal situation that is not provided for in the law and therefore it is necessary to prescribe appropriate crisis management models in the event of a global pandemic and a national epidemic. The above principles of efficiency, i.e. efficiency and proportionality, and due to the continuing risk of exponential growth of the sick, the institutional model under which the Civil Protection Staff is acting and deciding in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Public Health and under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed. The proposed model shall ensure the rapid implementation of the laws of the prescribed security measures referred to in Article. The 10th draft laws that can be taken to achieve legitimate objectives in the first order, the protection of life and human health. The orderly measures, as well as their intensity, should strictly meet the needs of the given moment and only last until circumstances require that, in any case, the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of citizens should only be limited to the extent necessary and only to the extent appropriate to the nature of the need for their restriction. Dear MPs and MPs, let me tell you something about the content of this bill. Therefore, the aim is to supplement the list of infectious diseases contained in the relevant legal provisions, new infectious disease, COVID-19 which is caused by the new coronary virus, SARS-COV-2 in Art. 4, 5, 6 and 9; then improve the existing arrangement of the epidemiological isolation measure in the apartment, or define the concept self-insulation... [[Intruder President: Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199225	I'd like to interrupt for a moment. I'm begging you, there's a representative here from one club more than two. Or two. So please, you know what clubs they are, then leave the hall, those that are more than two. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199226	Thank you. Why is this important, and why is it important to introduce a new epidemiological measure? For the simple reason that the world has shown that the number of newly infected patients is extremely large and simply there is no country that can enable the hospitalisation of all infected patients. Therefore, this model of isolation in the house, i.e. self-insulation, is accepted in the world frameworks and we believe that it needs to be incorporated into this legislative proposal. Then, to prescribe that the decision to declare an outbreak of infectious disease is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, while the health minister would be authorised to make decisions to declare the danger of an outbreak of infectious disease in the Member States. 2.; to regulate the general institutional model of crisis management in a situation where the World Health Organisation declares a global pandemic, while the Republic of Croatia simultaneously proclaims an epidemic in Article 2. 10.; then prescribe additional powers to the competent sanitary inspectors in the exercise of control over the implementation of measures to protect the population from infectious diseases, as we witness every day is of paramount importance, people who are in self-insulation, home isolation being monitored because they are those who can further uncontrollably spread the diseases. All mentioned in Art. 11, 13 and 14. Then prescribe new violations and appropriate levels of fines for non-compliance with security measures to protect the population from infectious diseases and supplement the law with new violations. In addition, to prescribe that the security measures referred to in Article 1 shall be taken. The 47th century of the 2nd century, ordered by the Minister of Health and the Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, is published in the National Journal. That's briefly the content of our legal proposal. I would like to further explain to you the article. 10th, i.e. that is the previously amended article. 47. By proposing amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, we intend to improve the existing institutional model of crisis management in these situations and respond to this vision and this size of the threat. We therefore propose that, in a situation where both epidemics and pandemics of infectious disease have been simultaneously declared, the Civil Protection Centre shall take special precautions in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Ministry of Health and the Croatian Government under direct supervision. In situations of rapid and unpredictable change, and the constant danger of the growth of the number of patients, the measures taken, as we have said, should be swift but also well-coordinated, and fully considered and considered by experts from different areas. In a particular case, the epidemiological profession is the basis for our thinking and for the answer to this crisis...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199227	Excuse me, Minister. Comrade Sagar, it's very rude to speak out here while the minister is exhibiting. The rules are clear to all and choose to follow the rules and do not tell me that you have come from Slavonia because people have come from other parts of the Republic of Croatia. If you've come from Slavonia, tell whoever came from nearby or from Zagreb to leave the assembly. Please sit in your seat under... Then go outside, go outside. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Set up the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199228	Thank you. We should be aware that this situation, which was unimaginable until a month ago, is precisely why the existing legal framework, the one we are applying today and to which we are calling, is not fully covered by the scale of this crisis situation. At a time when the existing legal framework was created, no one had in mind the appearance of a disease that could spread so quickly and that would globally require the adoption of a large number of measures that fundamentally alter the way of life we know. And that's why we adapt, change regulations and try to improve the existing legislative and institutional model of crisis management in this situation, and that includes amending this law. Allow me to comment on the transitional and final provisions, or Art. 18. Proposals for a law governing the legal situation under way to confirm that the pandemic and epidemic of COVID-19 now declared falls under the new institutional model of crisis management proposed. Article 10(3) of this proposal is amended as follows: 47th of the previous law because these laws are governed by assumptions. Accordingly, the decisions taken so far by the Civil Protection Staff under the decision of the Minister of Health to declare the epidemic are considered to be measures referred to in Article. 10th century 3 of this bill. And to object to the rector’s activity or feedback of some articles, we can say that in art. The 18th of this proposal is not about the retroactiveness of certain provisions of the law allowed by Article. 90. The Constitution. This is about what happened. as Mr President HS said, it is either illegal or seemingly or quasi-retroactivity that the Constitutional Court declared by its decisions constitutionally permitted in the Croatian legal order by taking over the institute from the practice of the EU court. This bill refers to legal situations that are under way, which are ongoing and apply to congested relationships that are not put into effect in the future, and therefore there is no retroactivity. He would also give you reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. The adoption of the Act by an emergency procedure is proposed in accordance with Article. 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS, for particularly justified reasons, which are justified in the context of the high rate of spread of COVID-19 disease and the need for its effective suppression. I can finally tell you that I invite you to accept this legislative proposal and adopt it after the debate because its adoption is in the interest of all of us. It is of general interest to propose an institutional model of crisis management as soon as possible in practice in all its elements, and the early entry into force of this law is in the best interest of the population of the Republic of Croatia because it contributes to the protection of people's lives and health, as well as other freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199229	I thank the minister. We have 18 replicas. I'll read now who answered just to make sure we haven't overlooked anyone since a lot of MPs checked in at the same time. So, Lovrinović, Zekanovic, Bulj, Panenić, Misic, Podolnjak, Orepić, Jovanovic, Mrak-Taritaš, Ostojić, Celic, Pernar, Vlaović, Beljak, Glasnović, Curaj and Bilek. Mrsic, okay. There it is, that's it. Let's go in turn, then the first is a respected colleague, Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199230	Thank you. Dear Minister, it's been almost a month since we've been in this state of emergency. Everyone reasonable in this country in the first 15 days realized what was going on, our people were disciplined, wearing masks, in gloves shops, etc., etc. Accordingly, by talking to people and following statistics, I suggest you address the public with the Civil Protection Staff not twice a day, but at most once, and perhaps best once in two days. Spread optimism, give people, you're such a man, you have these predispositions, yes, that people expect good news. All the media you're saying is, you can't hear anything else, give people hope more, we'll back you up in it, we're in it together. Not to spread, meaning fear, I understand what it's all about, there's no need to take things seriously, but it's time to relax in that sense. Some things. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199231	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199232	Thank you for that observation. The last, well maybe more than 15 days of press conferences are only once a day at 14 o'clock and that's the model that we switched to after we had twice a day press conference before. Look, we are primarily trying to be objective, be professional, if we can give some tape of optimism and hope, we are very happy to give it, but we must primarily objectively and transparently report to the Croatian public about all the elements of this epidemic, so we are trying to do so. So once a day we have a press conference, so... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And every two days, okay. We'll also consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199233	Let's go to another replica, colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199234	Your Honor, I have a lot of questions, so I'm going to continue this in an individual debate or in front of the club. Here, first question, you said we were the best in the world or among the best at the mortality rate, only 1.8%. I went online to Worldmeters and looked at the data and there I counted that out of 200 countries in the world we are the world's worst 54th, which is that in 25% of the worst countries in the world at the mortality rate, so here, I don't know, explain it a little bit. So, explain to me why a man can walk on his own along Drava, along the Adriatic Sea, along the Sava, and when he takes that fishing tool he's in violation, that's another question. And the third question, if you can answer quickly, which measures are taking, for example, The Indians have a billion and 350 million of them, and their mortality is very newly tested, almost 300 thousand, and their mortality is negligible in view of the number of tested, diseased and infected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199235	Answer, please. You don't have to if you don't want to. Nothing. Then let's go to a colleague of the Bulls, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199236	Thank you very much. Minister, we are also passing this law and measures in the fight against the pandemic. You call for measures daily to adhere to all measures in this fight and citizens do so. However, here you have recently been to Split, we know what happened, that for 10 days, as the director said was the virus, i.e. that they had the temperature of the protégés without doing anything, i.e. It's not clear yet what happened. How do you comment on this case of the intricacies of the people inside, in this case home for the elderly and powerless who basically brought one virus into the nursing home? How do you comment on that and what measures have been taken on this matter because we see that no one is doing anything, that those who appointed this man as director are simply washing their hands, only taking pictures with you. It's the most important thing right now. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199237	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199238	Thank you for asking. So the situation in the nursing homes is very specific. No country has yet found a recipe to prevent the virus from entering that population. What we stress all the time and for what are very clear and detailed instructions of the Croatian Institute of Public Health went in time to the Ministry of Demography and all institutions of this type is to pay particular attention to the possibility of infection or high temperature and other symptoms in diseases from this virus. I was in Split, and also in Split, I sent a health inspection that made an insight into the Faculty of Public Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, and a colleague of the Minister of Demography sent her inspection. We're expecting the same results. Like I said, in Split, I repeat now If it is detected that there is a certain failure in the conduct of duty, there will certainly be sanctions. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199239	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Zekanovic asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199240	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear Minister. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for further consultations on this law. I must say here that, Your Honor, you have no idea why you're here. You're here to ask us questions and you to answer them. Here you responded politely to your colleague Bulju, you replied to my colleague Lovrinovic, you had the opportunity to answer me, you did not answer me. So I want to hear the answer to my question and here it is, I'm going to ask it again, I've got it for a minute and a half and a little easier. So there were three simple questions. The first question was about that information that you said was that we were one of the best countries, that at the very top of the world of mortality, which doesn't match the truth because we're 54th in the world, so that's official data, here, I checked the second time. So we're at 25% of the worst, which means commentary on it. The second question was one measure that was insane, and that man, individual, any woman and man could go to the coast of the Danube, Drava or the Adriatic must walk, and when he takes the fishing gear into his hands, when he's an individual, then he's in violation. You didn't answer me. And the third question, that's what the Croatian public is interested in, is the question that they ask me means to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Croats and Croats, to tell us, what measures are being taken by Indians who have a billion and 350 million. They have 300 thousand tested, only 10,000 infected and about 300 dead. For example. The same question concerns both Nigeria and Bangladesh and Pakistan, etc., it is a few billion people who do not have the measures we have, but do not have such an epidemiological situation. So you're the Minister, so you're the Minister of Health. I think you can offer us an answer, or tell us what we're interested in here. After a break, you can freely take the opportunity to answer these questions because I am interested and also interested in the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199241	Now, no, before that, colleague Panenic will still be in touch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199242	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club, and I'd like to go this way and talk to the Minister with a problem at local levels, which is about simplification, facilitating the movement of the population, because we can see that certain environments that were pro-pulsive, active, have already taken advantage of the possibility and have reached an agreement between the Civil Protection Staff and made it possible to move, especially the inhabitants of the small villages, and that, according to the cities they're gravitating. We see that many other initiatives do not come across fertile soil because there is a fear of local leaders for responsibility that may arise and do not have enough information, and also, what is another problem, that there are also political, unfortunately political differences, there are also personal animosities. All of this is currently very harmful for people who are looking for these conditions where every day you praise the actual quality of the epidemiological situation, that not in all areas that have a good epidemiological picture, can achieve the right to move more freely, which I think would be a really good progress that some have made. There will be no such response ever again, so he would also ask the minister from his position to support the process more actively if it is related to the initiative of Odol, and there, the mayors are having difficulty reaching agreements. So here's with the support and on my part of this law that I don't think I see in it that there's something so controversial except maybe we're discussing a moment. But I'm saying, in future activities, you're certainly also giving support through the Public Health Institute to make a better picture and thus enables citizens to move better and I think that would be a good improvement and would actually give support to further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199243	Is anyone else picking up for a break? No, he can't answer now. We have a break until 11.25. It's 11:17 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.27 HOURS]] Now it's time for the replica of the esteemed counterpart Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199245	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. And to continue this communication once again, I have addressed an application that is realistic and really has a need and a basis, so I will ask through all the institutions if I believe that without a clear signal from the state level, without a clear signal from the Public Health Institute we will find it very difficult even where the epidemiological conditions are very high-quality to ensure that. And here again means life in smaller settlements, the villages of the municipalities that we have some have really small villages are based on people going towards the city doing all their needs and now, of course, with passes, it works in one part, but it's quite difficult for everyone, so here's another time I'm going to ask you to try to intervene here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199246	Here you go, Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199247	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for saying so. And that's our intensity because as you know after the initial shock that took us all after knowing that our epidemic was there and when we brought measures in the best sense of spotting, we now see that individual behavior has some bad elements. This is a business process we have never witnessed from day to day we learn about it and discuss these elements from day to day. It is necessary to say that the measures of the restrictions on movement are primarily adopted for the protection of people's lives and health, not for the political or other reasons of human beings that you said. So it seems really justified that some smaller environments that do not have everything needed in their district, the type of pharmacy, post office, gas station or something like that might work in this way that you said, so I take your request and your suggestion into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199248	Now it's time for fellow Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199249	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Berosch. I thank you for the seriousness of your city and your team that you really showed us in Croatia and for the entrepreneurs that I am, how to do business seriously. And that's what you're sending one message to this people, so of course all of us in entrepreneurship and everywhere and in the state must be serious and realize that everything we do has to be done with responsibility. My question, your opinion on the duration of this virus, how long will it take? Of course, I'd also like to mention these homes in Split and around, I think they've been taking it unseriously, that no one should have entered the homes for a month and a half or let themselves out. Unfortunately, we have mistakes, and here I am thanking you both to you and to all the doctors and to all the others who struggle to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199250	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199251	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I thank you for your commendation, first of all, and second of all, I would say that it is very difficult to predict the duration of this epidemic and it would enter the realm of approximation, and that is not what we want to do. I like to be optimistic in this context and base my opinion on an infectious profession that, following everything in the history of an epidemic of similar respiratory viruses, has concluded that it has its phases and cycles that don't last too long. However, when I compare it with individual thoughts of foreign experts who think that this threat will last longer, there is a certain disproportionateity. Therefore, we do not have any objective elements on which we could give an exact assessment of the duration. As for home and leadership, look, the problem is big. So the very clear instructions of HZJZ went towards these homes, but none of the European countries with respect were able to adequately respond to the same, so it is difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199252	Thank you Minister, please take care of the minute as long as the time is provided for the answer. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199253	Mr. Minister. You have made the decision to declare the epidemic and under this Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, you are the one who is competent to take all those security measures that are in the art. 47. And now I have to ask you, did a legal advisor, since you are a medical professor, say that these are the security measures that you decide, not the Civil Protection Staff as an unsatisfactory body, and we finally found out that you are not even a formal member of that headquarters. ...as it's been a month that apparently no one has told you that all these security measures should be decided by you, you make decisions or orders. And now after a month we're actually discussing that all that time the decision was made by an unauthorized body, which of course has legal implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199254	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199255	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So, the history of the proceedings was next, the Health Ministry's Crossing Headquarters was founded, an expert group of the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters was established on which all our evaluations were based. When the situation escalated, when the conditions were inadequate for the response of the Ministry of Health's crisis headquarters itself because of the need for institutional inclusion of other components, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to activate the Civil Protection Staff. The Civil Protection Centre has representatives of the Ministry of Health, personally and personally involved in making each decision and we co-signed the same, and the basis for making all our decisions was exclusively an epidemiological profession, exclusively an epidemiological profession. That's why our results are the way they are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199256	Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199257	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Are we in a crisis? That's the first question. And the second question is whether and if you did not, why didn't you bring compensation for people who are limited to moving in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, exactly art. The 47th implies when we call so much respect for the law, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199259	Thank you very much. We're in a kind of crisis that we think we've found an adequate answer and that's the data we have at this point and prove it. As regards the compensation of Article 4 of this Article, it is regulated that, in the case of a new legal situation, at the same time, the declaration of an epidemic and a pandemic of a person in respect of which limited movement is prohibited do not exercise the right to compensation because this change was necessary, given that we are covering the population in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and otherwise there would be inexplicable financial costs. So this is a new threat, this is a threat that no one has been prepared for, includes hundreds of thousands of people, and it is difficult to allow everyone to receive financial compensation, but in the interest of preserving the health of the Croatian people self-insulation or isolation in the house is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199260	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199261	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, at first of all, I would like to thank all the employees of the health care system who are doing a great job protecting the health of all of us. It is more surprising that certain directors ignored your memo and sought out all legal ways not to pay full wages to all who worked in the health care system by fighting the coronary virus, so I ask you what you will do about it and whether you intend to introduce some compensation independently of the overtime for all those who are directly working to suppress the coronavirus infection? And the second question, what does the Minister of Kanite do urgently so that one pandemic does not cause another pandemic because it feels that the number of diagnostic tests, especially in potential cancer patients, is falling, so in the coming period, following the warning and respected oncologists, could have an increase in mortality from diseases, malignancies, so I appeal to make an additional effort in this regard?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199263	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in answer to your question, as before, I need more than a minute. So I'll be free to take my five minutes later and I'll be happy to answer your question because they're all grounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199264	My colleague Mrak-Taritash, it's your turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199265	Thank you very much. So Minister Beros, we really live in an unusual and challenging time that we all need to adapt and adapt to both our behavior and our work and everything else. You've had a chance to see that the opposition has changed a little in terms not only of the way we communicate but of the way we vote. So somehow we expect you to be a little less classic HDZ. What am I saying? You blew it. This law was supposed to be one of the first laws to come to the assembly and thus there would be no retroactive action or anything else. Obviously, not you, but your services at the ministry have overlooked some things. Retroactivity. We have a retroactive application. You said the process was continuous. Yeah, but for some, it's over. For those who have completed self-insulation or something, the question is, what if they really decide to sue at the moment? How's that gonna end? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199266	Answer, please. There's no answer. Thank you. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199267	Dear Minister, I appreciate that they always send you on these ungrateful assignments, which is to try to legalize this situation. Namely, you are the first minister to give up the powers he has and who needs to work, so I must say that 1.4. this law entered into force in 2019, therefore, is not some old law and in Article. 3. It is precisely this clearly stated situation, which is regardless of the name, if the disease occurs that you can intervene and solve it as all other cases do. I think we need to talk about that in art. In terms of self-insulation and quarantine, I would be interested in how many solutions have been issued by sanitary inspectors on isolation or quarantine? I think that's the basis of the whole story. And what I have to say, and that's the question of the Civil Protection Staff that's talking about how maintain legal certainty? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199269	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that someone was in 2019. I could predict such a threat would probably alter the items of this law. However, that was not possible. Not only does the name of the disease change, but as you yourself said, new epidemic institutes are being introduced in response to a new threat. The former law simply did not describe them because they were not so ill and all were able to be treated in hospitals. So these are the new challenges we're trying for, and it's a continuous process, we're trying to find answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199270	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you took this duty the day after the World Health Organization declared the epidemic. On that same day, it was possible to conduct tests at a clinic for infectious diseases on a new coronary virus. It was necessary to quickly establish an efficient system that included and predicted certain sanctions that were never popular, the results we see today, and I think that the Republic of Croatia can be proud of the current results related to the fight against the coronary epidemic. I'm interested in what you see, so one of your first decisions was to make the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters, which you see as the biggest challenge, I'm not asking how long it will take, but what you see as the biggest challenge for the Croatian health system in the next period related to this epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199272	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199273	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will try to answer your question. But in a minute, there's not enough time to tell you everything that I think needs to be done. We quickly adapted Croatia's health system to new circumstances, mainly in the context that we separate capacities for COVID positive from COVID negative patients. This is essential because in this way we allow adequate healthcare and part of the population that is not infected. So that was one of the basic challenges and what we keep mentioning and saying, from day to day, some elements change and it is necessary to react quickly and spotively and respond to these new challenges because if you are late in judgment, it can be too late tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199274	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199275	The Honorable Ministers. If the existing legal regulation was good, why these amendments to the law? Is it possible that you've done everything past the law so far? That's the first question. The second question is, you say, you don't know how long this epidemic will take. Well, I'll tell you how long it'll take. As long as the general quarantine measures last, the epidemic will last. By keeping company in general quarantine, you're just prolonging this respiratory infection that by its nature, if there were no quarantine, quickly perceiving the entire population and the epidemic would be over. And the third question, why is everyone quarantined, not just those who are sensitive to the crown? Why only older people and those who are chronic patients or have leukemia, which is why they're not in isolation why we're all in isolation, the public is interested. Why are you torturing us, and as long as you plan to torture the entire state with your measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199276	Answer, please. You won't. Okay. Let's go to Mrsic's representative now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199277	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You're in charge of optimism and dissemination of optimism, and you're doing it well, but what you're saying now that you're wondering what and how you're going to do next, you're saying there's not enough experience, that we're going to follow the situation, and what I'm asking you is as far away in Croatia as possible? So, citizens deserve answers either from you or from Mr. Bozinović, what is further in Croatia? What we're going to do, how we're going to open up, and it's not true that there are no projections of how we're going to go on with this epidemic. It can be projected, we know how the epidemic is going and how it will last, you must give answers to Croatian citizens at this time as well as further. I expected from your speech here that you'd say that, you've repeated some of the attitudes we know from before and the data, but you haven't answered the basic question as to what and how and how. And I think that both you and the Ministry and the Government should fire the legal advisors who brought you into this situation that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199278	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199279	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you are a medical profession, so I believe that you know, as I do, that epidemics most often have certain rules of conduct and follow certain predilection models and, of course, we have them and that we hope that it will come true. However, this cannot be predicted with absolute certainty because of the new disease and the new virus. What I can, as our follow-up strategy, very openly and clearly say that we still have to keep under control the number of new people, preferably to reduce them. When this begins to happen, of course we will consider giving in, or as some call it, the relaxation of all these measures to allow normal life processes to return to the Republic of Croatia. That's all we have to do, it has to be on time, because you know that the president of the World Health Organization also warns that too fast and inadequate relaxation or reduction of measures can cause major disturbances further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199280	Thank you. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199281	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'll be brief. I will say that you have and that this bill will have the support of the HSS, and I only regret that there has really been an error in the steps, that this law should have been really one of the first, I would agree with colleagues who have said this, and I am sorry that the opposition, or the people of the opposition who are also able to help, and then any exiting from the framework, which is unfortunately what we have the opportunity to hear today in the House, therefore some conspiracy theories, etc., have been declassified because then, in all possible ways, we would really remove the possibility that certain mistakes that have been and which are, of course, you are all in this new, less critical, or less susceptible to criticism. So, and in the future, I hope you can change that in a way to involve people of the profession from opposition states. So we can all stand behind each other in this crisis situation together. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199282	You want an answer? Okay. We're going to a colleague named Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199283	Dear Minister. In this fog of coronaryvirus we have salon strategies, all kinds of character, I think you might agree with me that we don't know much about this virus and it'll all be clearer in '21. Mr. How many died, etc., and in the meantime this pandemic has five, which I know as an amateur, five levels of pandemic, epidemic. Is this the first degree? Is 5 that total apocalypse? Do we have the same measures we use as used by the Dubrovnik Republic and... The 15th century, nothing has changed here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Social distance. Question for me, we see, we're asking citizens for some things, but I don't see, this disinfection of public space, the street, were homes disinfected before this, nursing homes? Was there a disinfection? Second, did we have strategic reserve we equipment protected from the Cold War? Was that the "South" she had and why we had to buy 60 tons from China that caused this pandemic, the epidemic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199284	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199285	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for your question. I'll start with protective equipment, but it was used in enormous quantities. So, only one infected and sick patient requires 50 sets because he's being nursed by doctors, nurses, labs, so biochemists, cleaners, nurses, so that's one drive that's extreme and all of our reserves were enough for a while. However, given the consumption, it was absolutely necessary to obtain additional protective equipment. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199286	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199287	Yes, thank you, thank you. Here, if you allow, I can only say that on several occasions we have discussed this, but in HZJZ they believe that disinfection of public space would not be effective, while it is certainly welcome to disinfect the health institutions, homes for the elderly and in the directions provided by HZJZ's instructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199288	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199289	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister. First of all, let me share with you, actually express the opinion of the great majority that I think you're doing a good job at the head of the other fellow Civilian Staff and that we've responded well to the goal of this whole thing not overloading the health system, actually saving lives in translation, which is why we have these measures. I think it's a good thing that in Croatia there's so much trust that it's just decided by the waist, those who know more about it than most of us here, I'm not going to say everything, but since there's no epidemiologist here I can say freely that they know more than all of us here who like to say the same thing smart. And I'm just asking one more question about these measures just to discuss at headquarters these market measures. They're pretty rigorous, a distance of 3 to 5 meters I don't believe they stick anywhere and they need to be rigorous, but when we look at them in parallel with supermarkets it's far, far more rigorous and we need to check that out a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199290	No answer, thank you very much. And the last one's a colleague of Bilek's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199291	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So what's the fact that we're really in the middle of a pandemic, even though like your colleagues and you said, this law went into effect on the 1st of the year, really at that point, no one could have predicted what was going to happen and of course this nivelation really came in time and that it should certainly be done. What many municipalities and cities are now doing is seeking agreement on the joint appearance of the Civil Protection Headquarters of Cities with municipalities, here tomorrow is the City Council of Daruvar and I think it is a welcome relaxation, a controlled relaxation of certain measures to limit movement. Of course, I believe that, in accordance with the proposal of the epidemiologist and with the consent of the headquarters, you will propose other measures of relaxation. I believe that all those measures of relaxation towards the economy should go as quickly as possible, of course, but still I ask you to be careful and careful throughout the entire segment because unfortunately over the weekend you could see it in the next two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199292	Thank you. I thank the minister. So now we're gonna call the committee reporter if he wants to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the club's turn, we've got them registered for now 13, 10 minutes speaking for the club. The first is a respected colleague, Robert Podolnjak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199293	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The Civil Protection Centre, in accordance with the Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, which took effect on 19 March of this year, made decisions that were repeatedly said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the law, and particularly in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases which is lex specialis when it comes to the protection of the population from infectious diseases. It is therefore logical to ask why the Government is proposing in Article. 18 in the transitional and final provisions of this proposed law, the decisions of the headquarters shall be considered as measures referred to in Article 1(1). The 10th century of that law where security measures are prescribed, almost a month after the first decisions of the headquarters. The declaration of the pandemic by the World Health Organization is no reason because it was declared on the same day that the Minister of Health decided to declare the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia i.e. March 11th this year. Also, headquarters is up to 13. As far as I have seen, I have made 25 decisions listed on the website of the Civil Protection Directorate and should have listed all these decisions and their legal basis in the proposal for this law. the basis in each individual provision. The 10th century 3. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, since certain decisions of the headquarters are based as you can see in the pronunciation from these decisions to Article. 22nd Civil Protection System Act. If this is a legal basis, 22nd wrong or insufficient, and it is obvious that the proposal of this law seeks to give all the decisions of the headquarters a new legal basis in the provision of Article. The 10th century 3. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases must state which provision of that law constitutes the basis for each individual decision of the headquarters. Why does it matter? Because the Civil Protection Staff, as an unauthorized body, has been responsible for the Minister of Health and is now formal under the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, this headquarters has without legal basis limited its decisions to a series of guaranteed rights and freedoms, freedom of movement, the right to public gathering, the right to work, entrepreneurial freedoms, etc., and freedoms and rights can be limited by law only, and that should be clearly said. Unfortunately, I have to say over the past month, many analysts, legal experts, have said that it is not the time to deal with legal finess now, to seek legal perfection, to deal with this when this epidemic is over, that the most important thing now is to take security measures. It doesn't matter now whether the minister needed it, whether it needed the headquarters, who was really in charge. Of course, we cannot agree with such an approach because just at the time of these extraordinary situations, it is extremely important who will make decisions and how and to what extent will be limited by the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. And I must say, the rule of law, unfortunately, as one of the fundamental values of the Croatian constitutional order, is certainly the victim of such a legislative disorder, legal certainty and arbitration, which we can witness on a daily basis. On the other hand, the relatively good conduct of the Minister of Health and his associates and epidemiological services is not at stake. As the government came a little late to realize that the headquarters lacked the legal basis for its decisions so far, she decided to somehow insert the headquarters into this Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, so she did it by proposing one thing, I would say, a funny solution. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 10th amendment is proposed. 47th that the headquarters can bring security measures when the pandemic of the World Health Organization has been declared. So, not only when an epidemic declared by the minister has been declared, and after a new solution, it will be the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it must be cumulatively met with a second condition, which is the condition of the pandemic. Therefore, the activation of the headquarters according to this new institutional model, as they have called it, is subject to the decision of an international organisation which is not affected by the Republic of Croatia, which in this pandemic, by the general court of the world public, has proved to be a challenge and has seriously failed in its recommendations, as well as in the declaration of the pandemic. You understand, because the decision-making headquarters for a full month and which is now to formally be given a role in making, the decision on security measures during this epidemic and the pandemic will, in fact, be activated in the future by the proposed model only if the World Health Organization declares a pandemic. If she doesn't, that new institutional model will be a dead letter on paper. In a situation where we see that national states as sovereign states are those who are actually taking key and security measures, when you cannot rely on the World Health Organization, neither on the EU nor on any other organisation, no matter how supranational it was and when we testify that each country itself makes key decisions, closes borders, prohibits exports, there is no Schengen, there is nothing, there is no freedom of flow of goods. In such a situation relying on the declaration of the pandemic by the World Health Organization is a complete failure. And I would ask the government to reconsider once more if it already has any intention of legalising the role of headquarters in all this, not to base it on the declaration of the pandemic and to depend on what the World Health Organization will do tomorrow. Just to remind you, that in 2003 when that first SARS didn't even declare the pandemic, she did it in 2009, when it was that swine flu or whatever it was called. Therefore, all of what is proposed, even to include this disease, this infectious disease in the law is completely unnecessary. We have SARS in law, we have the possibility that the minister will determine on the list of infectious diseases any new disease that has not been listed so far is absolutely unnecessary. And for every other version of SARS to change this law. So it's, it's notsens. Therefore, other provisions that are proposed, for example, are also, are, for example, pointless. The fact is, with certain provisions that no doubt have a return meaning, he wants to legalize everything the headquarters has done in the past month. We have witnessed many decisions that really had no legal basis, which had drastically limited constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. And just because, we have to say, the great fear of citizens because of this epidemic or pandemic is actually citizens, including the media, and many experts have been silently going over everything, over all the decisions that have been shown on a daily basis in many things under-thinking, often very arbitrary, often with the very arbitrarily conduct of certain participants, which you can say that non-compliance is sometimes, but all in all today we have a major legal disorder. You have people who are in self-insulation, who haven't got any solution that they're in self-insulation, they don't have any written solution, we're just now introducing the law of self-insulation. All those people, how many, tens of thousands of people who had to spend weeks in self-insulation weren't allowed to go to work, they weren't really supposed to do anything. They don't even have formal paper that they have to be in self-insulation to prove that they were ordered under this law, based on this law not to go to work, they had no formal justification. That's just one example. You can set many examples like this, but unfortunately there is no room for this presentation anymore, but we will talk about it in other exhibitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199294	Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Zeljko Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199295	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Lady and Gentlemen. In the name of the HDZ Club, of course, at the beginning I will say that we too will support the adoption of these laws. And let me speak partly as someone who participates in politics and, in part, as a doctor. The Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases, the first version was passed by HS 13 years ago, reminding you of 102 votes, so we were all, I hope that when we vote this, we will be practically unique, and then he was supplementing, novelled in 2008, 2009, '17. and the last time in 2018 some of these innovations were tied to the profession, appeared... The disease or the disease of mad cows, the SARS appeared, was mentioned earlier, and why was SARS immediately, to be clear, was not declared a pandemic? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It lasted from November 2002 to July 2003, with only 8 096 people, and only 12 died. It's dramatically different from this monster we're facing right now. He was also later MERS-1, 2012, with only 2,499 patients and many more dead, 861 died, but he was limited to one area so he was not a pandemic, because he was, only the name says, it was a shortcut from the Middle Eastern actually epidemic. Therefore, it was not necessary to declare the pandemic. We are now faced with a new deadly disease caused by a previously unknown coronary virus called SARS-COV-2, and the disease is called, as a keybinding for Coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19. I note, the word deadly because it's 10 times more deadly than the pandemic that was declared influenza in 2009. It all started with this disease, started exactly on the last day of 2019 when the Chinese authorities announced that there were a large number of patients suffering from pneumonia, we all know in the city of Wuhan, the province of Hubei in China. The first case outside China was recorded in Thailand on January 13th of this year and then the Chinese authorities introduced a measure on January 23rd that had not been recorded until then, at least in China, quarantine. We knew about her in our country a long time ago. As early as the 13th century in Dubrovnik in 1272, quarantine was established, and therefore, it originates precisely from our country. However, in any case, the World Health Organization declared the COVID epidemic on 30 January this year as a threat to public health. Why is that? That's why we don't have any specific and proven effective medication for this disease. We have a follow-up treatment, but not a cure that kills the virus. We don't have a virus vaccine at this hour. So it's a whole new virus, and the general sensitivity of the population is because of it. Not just ours, but other countries. The rapid increase in cases is related precisely to the way the virus is transferred from person to person on the one hand, and on the other hand to improved diagnostic options compared to some earlier pandemics, epidemics, etc. We must make it very clear that Croatia began very early on with measures to monitor the returnees from the affected areas with the aim of early detection of the sick, the first test on the virus, was carried out in the hospital by Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, January 30th, this year. The decision to declare the risk of an outbreak of infectious disease for the entire territory of Croatia was made in accordance with the law on 4 March of this year, and the disease was in accordance with the law, put on the list of infectious diseases, whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia. Also, according to the law, the health minister declared the outbreak of COVID-19 disease on 11 March this year, and the world health care system declared the pandemic on the same day. The Minister of Health made a decision on the establishment of a quarantine on the 21st year, in accordance with the law and the Decision on a special security measure of isolation in his own home or other appropriate space, etc. self-insulation on March 14th of this year. Fortunately, both the Minister of Health and the Croatian Government responded well, resolutely and quickly introducing measures with course, support and I thank them, and I thank everyone in whom they participated from those who are more media prominent, such as counterpart Capak, such as colleague Markotic, but also to all doctors, nurses and medical staff who have made the following instructions possible for Croatia to be one of the countries with the lowest frequency and mortality of this disease, and that is true. If we look at the number of patients to the number of infected, or even better, the number of patients per million, or the number of deaths per million inhabitants, then the figures are very clear. Croatia has a population of 415 million and 8 people died per million. For comparison, U.S.A. 1854 patients per million inhabitants, 79 dead. Spain 3723, 390 dead per million. Italy, 2687 patients per million, 348 dead per million. France 2195 sick on a million and 241 dead on a million. So let's compare those numbers from 8 dead to a million in Croatia, and now I repeat again, 415 patients per million. It is therefore difficult to understand that some also dispute these figures, but also measures. It is of course only fortunate for individuals, some media, mostly a few portals and some appearances on the facebook and the Internet. But when I mentioned the media, I must say immediately that the vast majority of media and journalists reported and objectively and greatly helped to prevent this epidemic in the Republic of Croatia from growing exponentially. And it did not go unlike many far richer, far-developed countries than the Republic of Croatia. Some of you, even here, have heard some strange claims, which I would not comment on at all, trying to prove that in preventing this terrible epidemic, some laws and constitutions have been acted upon. To them it is more important to get public attention or a few political points than to save human lives and preserve health. I am deeply convinced that this will not be discussed by any parliamentary representative more and more, and I deeply believe that we, who are elected representatives of Croatian citizens, are and must be in the first place the health and safety of those citizens who have chosen us in this high home, not cheap self-promotion or poor achievement of political points in the eyes of those who do not understand or want to understand what this deadly epidemic is and what is threatened with it, from human health, life to economy. The most terrible pandemic in the recent history of the Spanish flu in 1918. which lasted 2 years. I remind you, she's taken millions of lives, millions of them have been sick and has been to this pandemic the worst monster since the 16th century when the plague reigned. Let us be aware that this pandemic is something extremely threatening and let's not minorize it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199296	Let's go to 3 now. The Club of Representatives, which is the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, will be spoken by two MPs, colleagues Radin and colleagues Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accepted it at the level of principle, which means defacto and de iura, i.e. both in practice and at the level of law, that certain decisions are made at the central level. In this way we have actually delegated a part, a beautiful part of our right to democracy, to people we have chosen as relevant and experts to decide on a particular problem. Maybe we had to set a deadline for example. of two or three months which can be extended and extended. We didn't do that. If we did right, if we didn't, it would show the future. So far, the thing as we can see is the floor, under control. Now at the level of individual laws we implement this general, that general principle, means the principle of delegation of others to decide yes, centrally and that is, of course, necessary because we are legalists. And we have shown that we are legalists, however, that the work of the assembly continues and that we do not delegate everything to the executive, executive authority. The frameworks are therefore being set up here in parliament, and then the government is making the executive part and the headquarters is making the decisions that are needed at this time and that is why we will accept this law. Centralising decisions, however, must be as intelligent as possible because it is in favour of all. Even the software of Andrija that comes from an Istrian IT company Infobip is intelligent because it learns from practice and applies that practice to itself. So it's artificial intelligence that analyzes practice and based on such analysis changes its algorithm, which makes it worse, actually improves it, excuse me. So, in the case of this law, we propose to improve from the situation in Istria where after the first problems we learned a lesson and an excellent pulser, now a partially new hospital, accepts as stationed patients all positive for the coronaryvirus. Why do I say that? Not because everyone should do it. Some counties are not able to hospitalize, hospitalize everyone, because, starting from every territorial situation, of course, by respecting the central frameworks necessary in a situation that is, by all definitions, extraordinary, leave certain tolerance for decisions by the county authorities if they are adapted, adapted to the situation in a way that improves conditions in a particular environment, and local and local environment, if it is, an epidemic as well as all other things, experts from that environment know best, in this case epidemiologists. We therefore give them the opportunity to improve, as you would say, centrally, central algorithms, as Andrija does with artificial intelligence. In particular, it's about art. 8th which says that in Art. 21st paragraph 1 is added a new paragraph, I will read it in part, except as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, according to the epidemiological assessment of the HZJZ or, etc., the amendment that I propose because of the exceptional conditions, but which is supported by the entire club of national minorities, the amendment is that in Article 8 amending Article 12 of the new Article 2 behind the word ‘HZZ’ is commad and they add the words ‘public health institutions’ which know the environment and which can improve, improve the decisions of the central authorities. And in an explanation and that's what I end up with, and then I'll give it to the president, he'll give his word to his colleague, Bilek. The proposed addition would allow each county to assess the current epidemiological situation and acceptability, feasibility of measures in its area. The supplement is proposed to further improve public protection against infectious diseases and the better impact of the proposed measures. Needless to say, these suggestions came from the epidemiologist Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199298	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199299	Thank you very much, President. Dear fellow Minister, dear, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, let me thank Minister Beros and all members of the Civilian Staff before we move on to him, and here we are in the middle of something we couldn't predict, which no law could foresee, no service which could not have been predicted, and the facts and data itself show that Croatia chose a good path. And you said yourself this morning when we talked about you looking and following the situation in the surrounding countries, that you had started preparing and hospitals individually in the counties to see these people who would be infected with this virus, but that you saw the threat that it did in Italy and elsewhere, and you estimated that other measures were necessary in order to ensure quality combating this pandemic and on this side congratulations on this success, and thank you very much for all of our healthcare professionals, all the nurses, all the doctors, all the employees who follow all the activities, all the employees in all the professions and services, of course and journalists who are doing all the information that comes to all of our citizens who have largely respected the guidelines and instructions of the staff, and unfortunately some of them do not, and this law will define how and will be able to take certain measures to do so. We have to say that this law brings certain improvements, some things we haven't been able to do so far as I say. He is proposing that the decision to declare an outbreak of infectious disease be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia while the health minister is authorised to make a decision to declare the danger of an outbreak of infectious disease. It will be prescribed that the security measures provided for in Article 47(2) of the Law ordered by the Minister of Health and the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia are to be published in the National Journal. I would like to remind you that the 26 decisions of the civilian headquarters that are now in force are not completed, this pandemic is not a finished story, we are not talking about something retroactive here, we are talking about something that is active, we are talking about things that determine the lives of our citizens who are a threat to the health and lives of our citizens. On the other hand, we think this bill is extremely high-quality and good. I must say that what my colleague Furio said and that an amendment has been tabled which we have supported and as a club, so I ask you on this side to consider and if you can accept or complete this amendment so that we can do as best as possible all the situations that are related to this pandemic. And finally, let me tell you that we certainly hope even to an improved extent that the National Minority Representatives Club will accept and support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199300	We are now going to the debate of the Living Walls Club and change Croatia, also 2 MPs, the first one is a colleague of Sabolek and after this colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199301	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to refer the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases with the draft final law to the Assembly. As Mr. Minister as far as we know, he is not a member of the National Civil Protection Staff, which we can see from the decision on the appointment of the Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs and members of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia took at the meeting on 20 February and which was published in the National Journal, the question arises whether the legal decisions taken by headquarters are at all legal. According to the Law on Public Protection against Infectious Diseases, decisions taken by headquarters are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. As a representative of the Ministry of Health at the national headquarters, Dr. Med was appointed. Vera Katalinić Jelkovic, whom we have not had the opportunity to see and not hear. It is also interesting that among the appointed members of the headquarters is not even the director of the "Fran Mihaljevic" infectious clinic Alenka Markotic, myself personally, and I believe many who are listening to this now surprised it. The legitimate question is whether the government is actually trying to subsequently legitimise civil protection headquarters decisions led by Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, so that the Civil Protection Staff will now suddenly introduce the law. In fact, this law gives the Civil Protection Staff the powers that only the health minister, Art. The 18th draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases actually seeks to obtain from parliament confirmation that the measures that the Civil Protection Staff has taken so far have been fully legal because the headquarters in the adoption of the measure has called for Article. 22. The Civil Protection System Act, which should be called upon by the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Disease. The problem was also that these decisions were formally to be taken by the health minister on the HZJZ proposal, not by the headquarters as a collective body. They probably became aware that they could face lawsuits from people who were damaged by headquarters decisions to limit some of the constitutions of guaranteed rights. A criminal law expert claims that the state owes compensation to even those who are limited to movement, but now is neither the place nor the time for major philosophies. The government wants to control itself with this law. It is thus proposed to add a new coronary virus to the list of diseases to which the law refers and to the decision to declare an outbreak of infectious disease on the proposal of the Minister of Health to be made by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199302	He will now continue his colleague Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199303	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, and especially respected citizens. In front of the Party Let's change Croatia I have a few concrete proposals. We will support this bill. Why? We show that we are, so we want to support everything that has any improvement in the impact of the health system, prevention, protection in all of this, we need to be reasonable people. However, we have several very concrete proposals for both the Government and the Minister who is here, I think now that after more than a month on the basis of the movement of the number of infected, dead, everything else, that it is time to abolish the headquarters and to transfer the intelligence further as required by this law, the Ministry of Health. That's just how it is when we look at statistics. I suggest, as I suggested in the morning, that once every two days data, statistics, numbers of infected, dead, etc. be reported. etc. Why? It's just that one part of people is crazy to say it, they're locked in four walls, so we can see that they can't even move in the open, etc., etc. So third, we need people of my different statistics, this statistic doesn't say anything, and in fact when it doesn't say anything, it says one message that it's possible and in some cases it's misused to draw certain conclusions. If statistics are kept, then let them report on age groups that are infected. If this is about the dead, let it be reported again about age groups and chronic diseases that they had until then. Because now all those who are of an older age have some chronic disease and die, they are thought to have died of coronaryvirus. So we have some problems reporting statistics here, and then the wrong conclusions. We've seen over the past few days, if I'm wrong, correct me, I haven't noticed that any younger person died that she was healthy, that she had no chronic illness. It sends very important and important information. If that's the case, then we have to set ourselves up to that problem another way. How? If nothing else is good, we were shaken by this, this pandemic, the epidemic, the pandemic, we learned individually about better self-preservation, wash our hands, behave, everything else and our people adopt it. However, ahead of the Party We change Croatia I am sending a message to the government to prevent the use of the pandemic for political purposes. I can't get the impression that certain representatives of the government, to suit them, so the malts not that they want the pandemic to last longer, forgive me these are now difficult terms, but I can't take the impression, you know. Based on what? Based on mobile tracking requirements, based on frequent conferences, a statement, then chews it up, forgive this expression again, by the media, so let's send a message of hope. You see, it turns out that despite everything he's got, who's pulling this crisis? So the health system as it is is, in a poor state, underpaid, he, he, it's about self-sacrifice, self-sacrifice of people, countless less visible, invisible sisters, technicians, doctors. Well, here I am, reading the other day that some of them will get less pay. Everyone who's exposed to this, in this problem, has to get more pay and amen, that's how it is. As far as the economy is concerned, we advocate higher salaries in health, health care and all those most exposed to not counting. Next, let's open up my men's craftsmen's shops, little shops. I'm gonna buy a light bulb the other day, and you can't buy a light bulb, and you can go there to the mall where 10, 20, 50 people go in, so that's not normal. These people have to live on something. Furthermore, those who are not anywhere, have no conditions to get this minimumer from the state because they got fired a little before that, so we have to protect my people, so they have to get 4,000.00 kn. How are these people gonna live? So, you solve that problem, that's a solution. At the heart of the entire operation, the economic must be again, I keep talking and I will say, CNB, she must, you did not, unfortunately, want to adopt our proposal in the government that during the time of the systemic crisis, allow in the CNB law, that the CNB can directly credit the state with 0% to save citizens and the economy. It's so reasonable, it's common sense, so this is what England is doing the other day 200 billion pounds bought from their central bank directly from the state. And you're teaching us how she should be independent of something. To whom? From something, actually from the people, from our troubles. Is that what you want? You don't owe us 1% but 0% of my people. Furthermore, as we propose from Change Croatia, do not cut wages in the public sector, if you do this even faster, you will add gas for the road to recession. Don't argue with the public and private sector because one without another can't. If there is already a sacrifice or someone to pay, introduce a solidarity tax on financial institutions, banks and all others, insurance, etc., telecom operators they see every year 3.4.5 billion kuna net profits, and who knows how many other channels they have transferred. It's all settled, this is one experience, unfortunately, it's good, but it never happened again. However, some predictions suggest that we can expect it at the end of this year. We need to train our economy to function as a commanding, warring and market elements, otherwise we will not succeed in all of this and send more optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199304	It is now up to the club of representatives of GLAS and respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199305	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. What do we do now? Therefore, this law must be passed because de facto has been acting against the law or not in accordance with the applicable laws at the moment and at the time when decisions have been made. The argument at the beginning in the light of this law is very detailed and perhaps the longest part of the reasoning is about how this law must be adopted in order for the list of infectious diseases now contained in the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases to be introduced and this new disease COVID-19 and then, in five points, the law is also spoken of as a reason for amending this law that a different or different formulation must be introduced, let's say, about isolation instead of isolation in the apartment, there is isolation in its own home or other appropriate space of self-insulation, the Civil Protection Staff is introduced, stricter misdemeaning measures are introduced, and it is said that the Minister of Health declares the possibility of an epidemic, and then the Government brings it. It's just a decision. That's all that law introduces, that's not what's in force now. Now there is an existing law in which the health minister makes all these decisions. So by disenfranchising the Minister of Health we can say ok, if the government has decided so, maybe this isn't the best time for it, but let's say it's some kind of government proposal. As regards the longest explanation of the need to introduce COVID-19, it also does not stand, because in Art. In the second century, the current law literally states that in St. 1 all diseases are taxed, and in Article 2 of that same article, I quote: “If there is a danger of an infectious disease that is not specified in Article 1 of this article, which may endanger the population of the Republic of Croatia, the minister may determine that measures specified by this law as well as other necessary measures,” which is, of course, because you cannot predict all the diseases that could possibly occur, so some of them are taxed, and in section 2 it is said that this applies to all others, and thus to the COVID-19 listed here as the reason that the law is changing. That shows there's no need for the law to change. However, what needs to be changed, and why is there a need? This is the famous Civil Protection Staff, which, at this point, does not have any authority to take measures, which, in some ways, rather than the Minister of Health, has brought all these measures. Our intention here on behalf of the GLAS Club is not that we are now accusing ourselves and looking for the culprits, we can say without further ado, okay, there was a panic situation and in such a sudden situation we tried to react quickly and in some way to deal with this situation and we were wrong, we simply broke some things in this situation. What I should also say is that, in my opinion, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have responded with common sense, in some ways taking reasonable action in such a situation that under normal circumstances they would never take. He was working on some kind of Russian social contract, so some silent consent with the need for such measures, for someone to take such measures, and the government made no mistake and did not make it possible, that is, to do as the law had prescribed, which is that these decisions were made by the Minister of Health. He was able to make all those decisions even if he was a member of that headquarters within the headquarters to make those decisions and then, in a way, publish them. But you people, this situation has shown in my opinion that we should actually look forward to it, it has shown quite the maturity of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Pretty, of course, there's always a lunatic, there's always some who step away from it, but most people have been really normal, rational, respecting their community, understanding the situation and acting accordingly. And that, in my opinion, should be acknowledged at this point, should also be acknowledged that it was wrong with, with decisions being made by a body which is de facto not competent and not only not competent but is not competent at this time. And especially do not after people have shown themselves truly relatively decent, I would even say, perhaps even astoundingly as we have treated them in different situations, try to show or prove something that does not really stand. So, without further ado, this law retroactively prescribes these measures. He prescribes measures that will apply backwards. In other words, because the decisions made by the headquarters may be permanent, but many are not permanent or permanent while the epidemic and pandemic lasts, but many are not permanent, many have simply ended, people have done self-insulation, some things have been acquired, people have not moved, they have not left, they have sought passes, so all of this that is done has some things that will continue, but there are many things that have ended. So the law is either trying to be retroactive and it's really serious, and it's a completely unnecessary violation of the legal system and the legal culture in which we have a lot of room for progress that would be said. So we're not exactly some country that's rich in legal culture and that's why it's even more important not to break it. So instead of claiming why you believe more in your eyes than I do, why do you trust what it says more than I tell you it's not retroactive, so it's retroactive. Don't make retroactive laws. People accepted what they accepted, they acted in accordance with rational let's say instructions that were not de facto adopted in accordance with the law, but they were rational and people accepted them. Let's pass this law to apply from the moment of adoption and then we can rely on it from the moment of adoption, but let's not try to prove that something that isn't and vice versa because this situation has shown that we have citizens. And that these citizens are in the vast majority of people worthy of enough political confidence to be guided by common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199306	Please, one small one, please, one small intervention, thank you, good afternoon. Here's a colleague of the HRG in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am not a doctor, nor a lawyer, and I am one of the most citizens in Croatia and who from the beginning, as my colleague Pusic said, relatively well, disciplinedly listen to what people who have been telling them since the start of the crisis are good. We here today at the assembly are discussing whether something in the proposal of these amendments is retroactive or not. According to those interpretations we have received and requested, we are told that everything that is going on, all that is under way, is not considered retroactive. But I think it's all expensive and immaterial here to speak, to convince each other because anyway everyone will have their own opinion, those who are part of the parliamentary majority and who support the government's work will speak this way, the opposition will speak in its own way, and I'm asking myself a question here as a representative, as a citizen. Is it really more important now that Minister Beroš, whom we say is that man flies around Croatia from problem to problem and solves everything spotlessly. We need to sit here and listen to our outwittings about paragraphs, concepts, or it would be much more important for a man to do that job that's much more important right now. Well, I know it's a surprise to my colleagues and colleagues, but it's my right to express my opinion, and it's like this. So I personally think that his time today would be much better used if somewhere, where we have a hotspot, we have problems, where we have to solve things, to protect the lives and health of citizens. And all of this from the very beginning as it goes, whether we want to admit it or not, from the minister himself to the crisis headquarters to the government and the president of the government, we can say that we should just tell them for now, for everything they do "thank you" and wish that it goes on, that it still manages to fight this crisis, to be one of the countries that is the most, so far managed to protect its citizens. That our aim is to keep our respirators out of use, so that all those beds that are prepared are not used to us, that people are healthy. I also ask myself whether our debate here and similar debates can lead to a number of our citizens starting to experience a looser situation, and that people, to a lesser extent, begin to violate the provisions given to them, which are thus recommended and ordered to stop and prevent the spread of the virus. This morning I needed it at the entrance to Zagreb about 15 to 20 minutes more than last week. So, we're talking about obviously once we give in to what's going on and people, of course, that any message sent from here can be some indication, and I don't think now is the time to give them a clue that the situation is calm, that everything is good and that we don't really need to be disciplined anymore. We need to be disciplined, we need to follow the instructions, we need to listen to those who are here to lead us in this situation, simply, on the other hand, we need to give them here in the Parliament support. The parliament should not be in this situation a bloodthirsty political scene, under quotes, a bloodthirsty political scene. It doesn't have to be. Citizens have shown themselves in crisis situations as people, Croats who know how to help each other, regardless of their own, so to speak, opinions, attitudes and what else. Then can we not follow that example in politics? Okay, the normal thing is that the opposition points to possible failures, the normal thing is that most of the people who have been elected, who are on certain duties, but let's try to have measures in all of this, let's try to send a message out that we still need to listen to people who are leading this crisis and wish that they are still successful and let's try, in a way to justify their desire for a game, a desire for points because this is simply not the time for political points. This is the time when Parliament should actually be accompanied by those who lead this process. To be supportive, to be supportive, not critical. Let's not go that way or go as small as possible. Let's not point out whether the concept of isolation or self-insulation exists, now it's the biggest problem because that term doesn't exist anywhere, it's not written anywhere. It's a terrible thing. Let's ask the citizens if they know what isolation and isolation means. They know very well, so let's put the word in. So on behalf of our club, the Croatian Democratic Party Club, HSLS and HDSSB, we thank everyone who runs this process, we want you to continue to manage it successfully, and of course, we all want to try to follow it together and try to justify our political desire to score political goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199308	We've got one breach of the Rules of Procedure and one break. First of all, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199309	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Hrg has answered quite well on our questions by disdaining parliament, parliamentary debate, and by criticising the minister, which stands in the House, he has hurt his heart. The 238th century 5. I do not accept that the parliamentary debate, and parliamentary democracy is the foundation of our multi-party system in this way belittled. I would say that by demeaning Mr. Hrg's institution, he deserved the title of the ruling Pernar in the way he relativated the role of the Parliament. and an institution in all of this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199310	Thank you. We're going to breach the Rules of Procedure on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. So the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The same Article. In 238, my colleague Bauk now insulted me for comparing me to my colleague Pernar. I beg you, colleague Bauk, do not compare me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199312	Also, the Rules of Procedure are not injured. Here's a break on behalf of the Most. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199313	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes to consult because the fact that the MOST Club has accepted all the proposals that the government has made, regardless of the first measures and in other measures, that the minister has listened culturally to him and there are no problems he's been talking about here, a colleague of the Croatians, that we're bloodied here and drinking blood. I think that here is a more question of advocacy at certain stages of this epidemic now where they want to court themselves on this crisis and show that the Parliament is an unnecessary body, that the Parliament is what the people have chosen, this is not a centrocracy, this is at this point democracy, regardless of what measures we need to respect that bring of course waist and that recommend measures to adhere to. And we also have a number of questions to ask the minister, in my county in a nursing home, a former mayor who never had anything to do with health care when he lost his election in Omis and I'm interested in what the minister or one of the staff men did? If the minister called, look out we were all in the bunker, we were all, be in the bunker, don't let us take the goal at 94 minutes. Who did we get the goal for? I want to dance now to Sanader and the former mayor and now to the head man of your coalition partner and Mayor Boban I want you to clap on the former mayor who absolutely has nothing to do with anything, who said he saw for 10 days that I had a fever? What did he do? So we ask, we support here, the opposition is constructive, and you here say we're bloodthirsty ministers. Well, there's no one on the inside to be here, though, we're giving support to all the measures. But here's the problem that I don't want to clap on Bobana who wears a uniform and takes pictures, and that's his mistakes with the minister, and his mistakes, he should resign. And we must not talk about it, we must not talk about the triba abolished counties which are a problem of the key health care cycle in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199314	Thanks, buddy. Thanks. I'll grant you a break, but we still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and another request for a break. Injury of the Rules of Procedure... Mr. Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199315	Thank you very much. Art. 238. I didn't use my friend Bulj's word "bloody" at any time. So, don't, and I said that under quotes, and I just said that I consider myself a citizen, as a man, that the minister would use more of this moment on the ground than here. That's my opinion. Why would that be wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199316	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure have not been injured, do not abuse the Institute, please, any more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You're in charge of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199317	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, his colleagues did not say bloodthirsty, but bloodthirsty, democracy is for you bloodthirsty. I know it's important to you now to be courtship in an epidemic with the minister... /The speakers speak at the same time....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199318	Comrade Bulj thank you, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured and I ask that you no longer abuse any of you form a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, first request we still have one for the break, colleague Bauk, and colleague Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As long as we're going to take a break, I'm going to use these two minutes to take a little polymize with my colleague Hrga to consult at the club about what he said. So I put you as Pernar in quotes. Why? As the measures of headquarters were relatively relativised in his performances, the government, the state concerned whether it should be like this or how he said that one of the grandfathers lived a year later, so the citizens could have the impression that these measures were unnecessary and harmful, so your debate could give the impression that the Parliament, the debate, democracy, the question and answer that they are unnecessary and harmful and that they prevent the minister from being on the ground and working. There's no big difference for me, so we're not in dictatorship. Our club has supported all the laws the government has proposed, except for the Law on Local Elections. Why? Just because they covered too wide, that the law had the intensity to delay these two choices and they would support it. We will also support this law if our proposal is adopted, and our proposal is very simple. Political decisions should be made by a political body, which is the government. The headquarters is not a political body, and if it makes political decisions then it becomes a political body. The balance between economic and health measures is a political decision, not a health decision. When we relax the measures is a political decision, when economic factors become more important to us than health is a political measure. If the headquarters will be a political body then it will be subject to criticism as will other political bodies. And that's why we suggest that the government makes these decisions that the headquarters proposes. There's no difference, but the government is controlled by the Parliament, and the headquarters should remain operational and professional and have full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199320	Thank you. So I'll grant you a break. Here's your colleague, Orepic. You? Let's take another break. Here you go, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199321	Your Honor... I also use the opportunity to ask for a break so that we at the club consult about one by one a frightening phenomenon in the Croatian Parliament where we have to ask ourselves if it is blasphemous, whether it is here to ask the question of the minister, whether we can say and determine the facts, which is that for a month some decisions are being made against the law and whether or not the minister should be here or somewhere on the ground. So we at the club want to consult a little bit about it. And I'm worried at all about the fact that anyone in this High House is in some way stigmatized if they want to say a concrete criticism that has a positive goal, which has no evil intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199322	Thank you, too. Can I help you, colleague Hrg, too, to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199323	I'm also taking a break on behalf of the club so I can consult a little bit about all this stuff that caused my debate. I'll just say it here like this. The crisis headquarters manages the crisis because it's not just a question, so activities that are related to the health ministry itself. Let us remember that tents were to be set up, that various things had to be organized, that others, other institutions in society, were to be included, so all of this was to be organized. For that reason, I see no reason or problem why we are in general having some kind of problem with it now because I think it has proved that this crisis headquarters system of ours has done a good job, so to speak, with the government's escort. Just as we have a situation that many things in the country are now being resolved that could never have been solved before because we are in this situation of crisis. And what my own was kind of main and important is that all of our debates in HS must be directed not because we love or we don't like or we don't like or we're members of some of the same groups or we're not but because we're sending people a message that the situation is not at all calm, that there's still a very great danger and that we have to stick to all the expensive disciplines.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199324	So, I approve everyone's break by 13 o'clock and 5 minutes when we continue with... No, we've got five minutes on the news, believe me. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So at 13.05 we move on. It's 1:00 P.M. A colleague Panenić in front of the club Independent Youth List, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199326	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers on today's agenda, we have a bill that has caused controversy, primarily in those who deal with legal matters and the possible impact of decisions made in the previous period, and after the outbreak is declared and a key question arises. Will anyone, too, use perhaps that one legal void that has been created to perhaps ask for a certain amount of compensation from all of it? I would leave this issue primarily to those who will deal with these proceedings, but I would recommend that they take care of the proportionality of all decisions that have been made so that we do not ultimately have a situation that is individually good, in front of the general good, and here we are talking about a situation where we are all, primarily here and our actions within the assembly expected and asked those who are in the executive functions to make decisions that will be for the common good. So by entering the very settings of this law, we could discuss it now, there are certain remarks, but what is most important to take advantage of this opportunity when we have a minister to transfer everyone from our territory, because we come from different areas of Croatia, in fact, the situation that is on the ground, so that the decisions made primarily within the framework of the national headquarters would be as high-quality as possible and ultimately make life easier for everyone in this situation that no one has ever counted on or could have planned within this range. Of course, now that this has happened, we all know that the laws could be much better, but believe me, we would probably at the very next opportunity find that a certain law is not enough and that we are coming to the problem of our general law and ultimately the Constitution where everyone is looking for a particular detail which and whoever wants to find it, and here we should primarily pay attention to what activities are now carried out under any law, and also whether these activities are good for our residents or not. What I would like to thank and the Minister for listening and this proposal on the possibility of facilitating the restrictions on movement that we now have would certainly be good for and from the position of the national headquarters, not only to send instructions to local units, units of local self-government how they can implement something but also to encourage them, because looking at the reports of the county headquarters that are coming today, we can only say that they express almost everyone, of course there is somewhere where new cases occur, express satisfaction and, of course, anyone who boasts of it, should actually support it because we are all happy when in the middle where we live there are no new cases. And especially those environments that didn't have them, they were actually lucky that they didn't have a single case of infection, they expect now to be rewarded, to be recognized by those who make decisions that no incident occurred in certain areas and eventually, as such, to start to work as easily as possible. The experience and conversations I have had show that in some ways we should start to act slowly as at the time of the war, where we had areas where there was a war, where there was every day a conflict, and there were those areas where when a man came he felt safe, he could perform certain functions that he lacked in others, in areas that were threatened, and in some way he would feel that there was life in Croatia that something was happening, that we were going in some direction that would be good. So right now, simply the one who's been in isolation for the past few months feels now the need to be kind of relaxed. Of course, it should not allow it to escalate, but it should allow primarily access to all the basic needs of life that are primarily when I show that, that is, going away, going to work daily, going to a doctor, going to certain institutions, and all that actually belongs to a single radius of movement that is mostly between villages and cities on, in a certain smaller radius somehow still no matter what the old system exists, we call it the area of the former municipalities. Vukovar-Srijem County, for example. There are three such areas and it would be good to have the headquarters a little, local headquarters raise their heads a little bit, and local politicians from what they have done so far only within their local self-government and to find common work, not only within the framework and opportunities to do so now, but also to make proposals so that the national headquarters and government can respect certain needs and facilitate the lives of these citizens. Of course, comparing life in a smaller municipality or city is almost impossible under these conditions. It's not just the existence of some local trade, it's also a lot of other things that make a difference in life, I'm not talking about some sports or cultural content that doesn't, they're currently being stopped as such at all levels, but I'm talking about people having needs and daily and any other way to go to the first city to do everything they need. Now they relyed on local headquarters, on certain assistance programmes that were designed to bring them home, but we can't keep people in it too long, especially when they don't feel a single threat around them. In order to prevent any violations that will occur to people from bypassing the police checkpoints or bypassing certain rules, the best way to go is to go in the direction that they can through the procedures in which they can direct the national headquarters is to go now and slowly form the conditions to acquire, run and actually gain a normal life. So now, in this procedure, it is very important that the steps prescribed, which are primarily expected by everyone, and this is to loosen the conditions for, which are currently set for the restriction of movement, are very important that the local self-government agreement, at the end of the opinion of the county headquarters, the decision of the national headquarters, be something that is systematic, that we do not have some environments that show their quality, political and human, where they can reach agreements, achieve for their citizens these rights, and other environments remain closed within their political conflicts or even certain and personal conflicts and do not start an initiative that is good for, which would be good for their citizens. Of course, it's always expected of the big cities, I'm not going to say the big ones within the meaning of the 35 000 population law, but those who are gravitating such environments, that they are primarily the bearers of such initiatives, because the greatest needs are directed towards such environments. But I can also understand when the mayors of these environments are not significantly interested or when they're afraid to open up such a form of communication is always asking a question, and what if one case happens, who carries responsibility here. The initiative is not only the responsibility of one person, but it is also common to share those who are in this whole decision-making process from municipal city councils, from headquarters and local county authorities at the end and national headquarters, but the responsibility is also borne by citizens who must be aware that any discount, relief, in fact requires further implementation of good quality discipline in order not to endanger any further threat then is a step back. And these are the key thoughts that need to be approached now, so that we have conditions as close to the regular life that we have had and in the end that the successes that the government, the national headquarters, share with us every day, that in the end we can both feel them in everyday life and thus the function of all those who participated in these processes where they tried to prevent further contagion. So once again, we will support this law, and once again here we ask that quality solutions be sought to mitigate the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199327	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is colleague Vlaho Orepić in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here's your colleague, Orepic. Just a little intervention. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199328	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm simply surprised how much we all get, how much we're all a little bit sensitive to illegal treatment. Gentlemen, in order to establish the Civil Protection Staff, it is necessary to create legal preconditions, which are either a major accident or a disaster. This law clearly defines, otherwise civil protection offices cannot be formed and cannot be part of the operational civil protection forces. Whoever's dealing with security systems knows that well. Here, I will dare today and I will say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot afford a month of illegal action regardless of the reason because I do not think it was necessary. Minister Berosch, that's why I can't simply believe you came to this high house with these suggestions. None of the proposed amendments to the law are urgent or necessary. Simply in question, the law clearly states that the Minister, on a proposal from the HZJZ, can take other necessary measures that are not specifically mentioned, is all covered. It's also not a rush except it's really funny, believe me, what you're suggesting is that instead of the Minister of Health, the government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing an epidemic. Unbelievable. The top of this area is the proposal to give power to the National Civil Protection Centre in the event of a pandemic so that it can make decisions on measures relating to citizenship. We all know that the laws in our country are little appreciated, that they are crushed and abused, but in this case, such a situation points to something very dangerous, it is the freedom of all of us. In our young and fragile democracy, which since the war is whether, despite the looting devastation that was, it survives and remains and for which we have paid a terrible price through the Homeland War. That democracy, that something fragile we must preserve. To me, legal action is the imperative of all actions, so I experience democracy. That is why, for the depravation of human rights, Mr. Minister, it is necessary to address this tall home that protects it with a two-thirds majority. If there is any other possibility of that being easier, we should not avoid and consult 2/3 of the parliament to grant us the right to deny human rights. Why are we afraid of this tall house? This situation where we all find ourselves together is recognized exclusively by the word “crisis”, exclusively. It is only by declaring the crisis that the entire society is legally engaged through the institutions of the state and under the direction of the people who are legally and legally entitled to do so. All these gentlemen are prescribed in the law that you ignore, which was passed on 27.10.2017. It's about the Homeland Security Act. In Article 6 of that Law, we see clearly that civil protection is only one part of the home security system. This completely raises the question of how to establish the National Civil Protection Staff as well as its decisions so far, right. However, this law also provides for what is obviously in the way of our prime minister or anyone, which is the consensus and engagement of all the most responsible institutions of the state and of the president and of the parliament and of the Government. I stress community and consensus is the only thing that matters, the only thing that can get us out of this crisis. All this time, you've been avoiding this community while at the same time, so I dare say at the level of an ordinary politician challenges you in public. All of this has no explanation of anything different but simply the desire to deal with this crisis only with the government to be used for pre-election purposes, which apparently pre-election campaign has long been in motion. Today I expect to hear how further and what after these measures that solve really one problem, but they create a whole series of other life problems, I expected today. For example. All he wants to hear is how you will spare 43 million kuna for two-year pension and health insurance of all 13,000 farmers in the Republic of Croatia and thus encourage agricultural production. I find such and similar measures to be fought by this war, not by preventing work. We don't have time or money to hesitate and wait for something favourable to happen, we need to start working so that we can afford to feed and defend ourselves. The policy of life on debt that is only now being offered is something that we can no longer afford, we can't afford to live on debt anymore. We simply need an answer from Mr. Minister how we can protect ourselves under these conditions and immediately start producing everything we can and what we know to produce. How optimally to protect and simultaneously produce food and energy, how to protect and run the work of the Immunological Institute, these are our objectives. How to continue to deal with other health problems that are many and often have greater consequences than this effect that we face from the crown of the virus. I so understand your work, Mr. Minister, that's what we expect of you. And we all need to be sensitive to this daily illegality, gentlemen, because if we lose our freedom to threaten this democracy as a heroic achievement, I will be free to say so, we will lose what is more valuable than life, in lawlessness and tyranny, we will lose the reason of our existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199329	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next colleague Siniša Varga is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go, colleague Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates, colleagues and colleagues are here before us the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases, here at the outset they can say that the Labour and Solidarity Party will support the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act, and would also take advantage of this opportunity for a pay phone to support, primarily, Minister Beros and members of his, his line of command that he has in the Ministry of Health on both HZZZ and the Clinical for Infectious Diseases and all other health institutions, in view of the great burden they now bear in this pandemic crisis that we have. It is one thing to treat let’s say peacetime to treat normal patients, and another thing is to treat acute patients on respirators who are suffering from diseases that health care professionals themselves can suffer from this disease. So here's how I support all health care professionals who are on the so-called. The first line of battle against Covida-19 and his cause. In fact, it's that I'm very aware of the fears they experience every day and I think it should be the same as it was in the Homeland War that came out to meet healthcare professionals who were on mobile surgical teams and on the front lines of the battlefield that allowed them to have salaries in the height of duty every day that they spend with such patients. I think it's a small drop in the financial sea compared to the rest of the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think it can be met by all these health workers. The second segment that we would talk about is not addressed in this law, and this law is particularly important for all of our citizens for many years to enjoy the blessing that we have been deprived of the major infectious diseases that have occurred in the past and we enjoy saying in a peaceful life through a mandatory vaccination programme, through the regular protection programmes of the population from infectious disease, all the preventive activities that take place that public health workers in the county and national public health institute, but also to all doctors of family medicine who take daily preventive activities to take measures that patients do not suffer from infectious diseases. However, what is the fact that this law does not contain several provisions which, if not now but will take some time to address, is primarily a matter of public procurement. A few weeks ago, I spoke to the MPs about the problem of public procurement that is urgently needed for the necessary protective equipment in the health care system. Unfortunately, public procurement procedures that are mandatory especially for the City of Zagreb and the County cannot be implemented beyond the Public Procurement Act, and this has greatly damaged the possibility that healthcare institutions can carry out their regular tasks in the protection of healthcare professionals with protective equipment. And I believe that, either through a system of mandatory stock reserves or through an exemption from the procurement process, a rapid supply of protective equipment must be made possible in these pandemic crises. The second part I would like to mention is the question of the very powers that actors have in this pandemic. We are aware of the debate we heard this morning regarding the powers of the Crisis Command. I'm not going into the controversy here because I'm neither a lawyer nor myself, I'm dealing with national security, but the fact is that in the hierarchy the health minister is no longer, they're no longer health inspectors or health inspectors and that's something that, excuse me, very sanitary inspectors, and sanitary inspectors are now in the jurisdiction of the second segment of command, and I therefore find it very necessary to unify it through this law of the CAVID-19 to extend their powers to sanitary inspectors. Several powers that sanitary inspectors do not have, and I think it would be good to expand them is to question those persons who are spreaders of false news or false information and through their activities that they do encourage other people to refrain from security measures. Colloquially, in the people, such persons who do not adhere to the security measures prescribed at national level to protect themselves, but to protect all people around them, are called kovidi. And that's an international new expression that has spread, and the audits are those that are against vaccination procedures, what makes us blessed by these laws, that we can, can live carefreely, that we are not exposed to diseases like typhoids, diphtherias, large and small goddesses, etc., but also that new diseases can have the stimulated development of new vaccines and it is heard through scientific circles, that there is a lot of work to develop vaccines against COVID-19. However, there are a number of reviewers who fight against this, spreading false news and false information in order to encourage as many people to resist the measures that suppress infectious diseases and I believe that sanitary inspectors should also have the authority over the auditors to report them in violation, or punish them in accordance with the law, and in that sense, the Labour and Solidarity Party will submit a certain amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199331	Thank you, too. I would like a little intervention, and we will continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, the debate will be shared by colleagues Mrsic and colleagues Vlaović. He's my first colleague, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199332	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You were in a meeting with the prime minister when parliamentary parties gave very clear support to the implementation of measures to contain the COVID-19 epidemic. At that time, we agreed that the Civil Protection Act would change and changes would be introduced that would allow the Civil Protection Headquarters, headed by Minister Bozinovic, to implement the decisions made. Then the same thing was to be discussed about this law because without this law all decisions made by the Staff were not worth it. Not time legally and this can cause certain and legal, but also financial consequences for the country. And I'm sorry that we haven't held another such meeting and talked about this law, where the ruling should simply say, we've overlooked, we haven't seen it, we're going to agree together and I don't think this debate would happen today. It seems to me to be a similar idea to the Prime Minister's idea that at the time of the Parliament's meeting, and even at the time of the epidemic, the government is making decisions with a legal force, as if the Parliament were gone. We then made it very clear that it cannot go through. And as far as these measures are concerned, I again warn that the Parliament is the most legislative body and only the Parliament can suspend part of the freedom of citizens by its decisions. In recent weeks, there has been a battle between HDZ and the rest of us on whether the measures that have been taken, and I am talking about limiting civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution, have been adopted in a regulated manner. The HDZ has just claimed the opposite, that it is all in accordance with the Civil Protection Act and the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and that all decisions were signed by Minister Davor Bozinovic, and now we see that this is not so because the government has urgently sent this law to the Parliament. And the law makes it very clear that it is the Minister of Health who has the highest authority, and a few days ago we learned that the minister is officially not a member of the Staff, all this leads to possible lawsuits. In particular, if we banned the hairdresser's salon from working based on decisions that do not have a legal foothold, that is to say, the Civil Protection Act, not the Law on the Protection of the public, then a large area for the lawsuits is opened. Why didn't the Parliament bring a catalogue of measures and mandated the Chief of Staff to carry them out, why didn't we protect the state from possible lawsuits? The Minister of Health is here present and continues to spread optimism and is generally talking about easing measures. To point out that in the next period we are expected to reflect on the relaxation of measures. What's further in Croatia? Without projections, wider communication, delivery of strategy and better insight into the actual breakthrough of infection, especially at sensitive points, the current measures can last forever, or they can end tomorrow without a clear justification. Every few days, members of the headquarters declare that we now have key weeks ahead of us, but citizens have no deeper insight into their consideration. Without the conditions fulfilled once we relieve restrictions due to major economic damage, this will have to happen sooner or later, any subsequent wave of infection could cause great anxiety and unnecessary deaths, as well as significantly more rigid measures than those under which we currently live. Experiences from all countries show that the first wave of infection requires both human and severe, but the following steps should be openly communicated. Epidemiological work is well done, at least as much data shows us, but there are a lot of open questions to be answered. The answers to these questions are important because of future steps not only of this government but also of the whole society. That's why I'm calling on the Parliament to take responsibility because headquarters can't be a legislator. Amendments to this law come only to legally cover staff decisions. But even a first-year law student knows that the retroactivity of the law will be difficult to pass, although we know that the Constitutional Court was covering other things, as the president told us this morning. Corona will pass, but they could remain expensive lawsuits. However, what remains after this epidemic is very clear that the Republic of Croatia needs public health, that public health should be completely separated from private health because only a few months ago here in the assembly it was said that public health should be abolished, that public health should be transferred to private health, that private health will solve everything that, as public health cannot. I keep repeating the Democratic Party that public health is a greater civilization standard and a more sophisticated model than private health. Public health is based on citizens' money with the aim of citizens' health, it is non-profit, at low service prices, and citizens do not poverty. In contrast, the private health model treats those who can afford certain medical services. It is based on private capital with the aim of creating profits. The service prices are high, so here we have an epidemic in the United States, the treatment on the respirator there costs between $40,000 and $50,000, if they survive the severe form of coronaryvirus infection, 2/3 of American citizens will declare bankruptcy because they won't be able to pay hospital costs. Unlike the Americans, there was still a system in the Republic of Croatia that was almost 100 years ago. Designed and spent by Andrija Printer. He freed us from infection, from fear of infectious diseases, and laid the foundation of public health and social medicine. What the press advocated and what saved us in this epidemic is the principle of equality that implies that in available treatment there are no differences between the rich and the poor. His most important postulate is that the doctor must not be economically dependent on the patient, it does not mean that he should have a small salary, but that salary comes from the state, and not from the patients, and many of them were not aware that this saves us now because under the impression of harsh news and fatalistic images from the hospital in Bergham, we add up the number of respirators, hospital beds, the number of beds in intensive care, so how many doctors, nurses, do we have enough sanitary inspectors and epidemiologists. Suddenly, sanitary inspectors and epidemiologists, infectologists, intensifiers, became more important to us than the military and the police. The coronary virus epidemic made us aware of how important the public health system is because the bed in intensive care, respirators, specialist intensive care, epidemiologists and infectologists cannot be created overnight, nor can they be found in the private sector because the private sector has no interest in them. The coronary virus epidemic has revealed another fact, which is the lack of solidarity of certain EU countries. Everyone thinks for themselves, unfortunately there is no good coordination at international level. The World Health Organization should be doing coloring its job. Maybe he'll learn some lessons from this epidemic. Unlike the policy of savings and structural reforms that have led to social challenges and unprecedented social inequalities, the current crisis requires a completely different political reaction, a state intervention that has not been seen since II. World War I. What should be said very clearly that in the Republic of Croatia from Hebrang, until Kujundzic was systematically destroyed public health, instead of developing it and promoting it, the system was split up, dispensing dispensaries, missing medical work, school medicine, health homes became buildings without life, and little was missing that the press was disappearing, but it wasn't. It was held back then and now and such public health must struggle with the greatest challenge in the history of these areas in the last 100 years. And he's fighting and he's doing it, which is just proof that we need that system. We will overcome the epidemic, but when this danger passes, a very clear debate should be opened in the Republic of Croatia as to how much this country cares about public health because the coronary virus epidemic has shown no alternative. Public health is public well-being and better public health must not be given up, which does not mean that public health has no private initiative, but it must be completely separate from, from, public health. Privately it should be separate from the public and certainly this infection, this epidemic has shown that public health in the Republic of Croatia needs to survive and that it needs to be further developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199333	I think that... Yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I think so, yeah. Division, division was interesting. We can continue with the next club of representatives, the club of HNS representatives shared by colleagues Curaj and colleagues Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199334	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Ministers and the Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me begin by congratulating on behalf of the HNS Club the International Day of Medical Laboratory Employees and thanks again for being among those on the front line defending this epidemic. In fact, we have before us the amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases where several things are determined. The things that we are already hearing about are determined, the minors and in the form of objections to the way we work, the measures that are being taken. Why? Because it was necessary to act on the ground, amongst people, citizens with the goal of why we all know why we are doing it, and the priority has health, is something that should certainly be a top priority for all of us, which is human lives and the protection of the same. And of course, in doing so, when you're doing so, and it's good that certain steps are skipped or interpreted differently. Here specifically in some of these things, I'm going to bring them down just briefly, let's just say here we're talking about a decision to declare an epidemic, now it's going to the government's proposal for a minister. Furthermore, the list of infectious diseases is being complemented, this measure that we all know about isolating in the apartment now is being introduced, then we are talking about the Civil Protection Staff and its role where more is proposed by an institutional model which I will, a little later on, is also strictly cited as being anti-epidal disinfections, the powers of sanitary inspectors, sanctions and retroactive... these are the key elements of this law. We actually have a dispute here about something the minister didn't bring, but he brought someone else, and if he brought a minister, then everything's fine. It's de facto important that the decision is made and we can't forget that. It is important that we coordinate her and not forget those basic things, human rights and freedoms in these difficult times and crises. But we need to know when we have a conflict, when someone's freedom and right threatens the other, then it's already according to all the possible legal regulations that we have positive ones. You can't say what you want but commit a crime, say slander, for a spoken word. Freedom of speech is one thing, and you have to watch out for what and whom it's being directed to, which means someone else. And the number of other freedoms we enjoy today are in one way limited, especially in relation to others. You can't walk into someone wherever you want into an apartment in space and do anything, and freedom of movement exists. That's what we got today. Obviously, some of the freedoms must suffer, and we have to be careful to what extent we are far from any authoritative states and that in the far line and the debate itself here tells us that what we are here today is that we are not even close and that we only have in mind why we are working and for what purpose. And the goal is what I said in the replica that we're simply aware of the capacity of our hospitals, not to overload that system, that we simply don't have more needs than we have options to treat, and so that we don't lose lives if human life doesn't have a price, he had no idea how many years, he doesn't have a price. Because, as far as I'm concerned, I'm glad there's a constitutional act that tells us about this possible retroactivity that's going on here, that if the measures are in force that are still going on that there's no then talk about this retroactiveity we're in progress. As far as the Civil Protection Staff is concerned, so I say again in cooperation means there are de facto something that was previously the responsibility of the minister himself, something at the government, something at the Civil Headquarters when the cumulatively fulfilled assumptions where HZJZ is, where the ministry is therefore something that we saw is now working on what citizens have confidence in, this is formalized in a way that it is so simply said has a legal basis in this way of action. It was supposed to work, and I agree here, this should be passed and this action should be formalised and in the extreme line I won't say legal because it's kind of got some bases in some other laws, but this is a document that I absolutely need. Was it supposed to be sooner? Well, it may have been a year ago, especially a month ago. But what matters is that we're better off remembering something and doing something than later remembering something to do, and we've passed the law, and that's the taste of the whole story. Someone would give the government more authority so that if the government were questioned, someone would give the government no authority, and it's crucial that the profession is heard. Here's a thank you. A colleague will continue on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199335	Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will support these amendments and amendments to the law, regardless of certain criticisms and remarks whether it is in line with the constitution, what should have been before, what should have been later. Of course, this law generally shows that no one could be prepared for what is happening in Croatia regarding COVID-19, and that it also shows that both practice and life write laws. What you would only like to teach at the presentation of colleagues Curaj, of course what he has already carried out at headquarters now by this law and detailedly completed. Insulation in your own home or in another suitable space of self-insulation. There's something I'm missing, is it a matter of law or some other implementing documents, what space is that? Namely, here's the practice of saying the man returned came for the weekend for Easter and was put in isolation. He comes from this area, has a family of four, and he lives with them in the same space. It's a risk. Who's in charge? Whether they are competent, perhaps it is not a question directly for you, more for the headquarters, who implements, whether the conditions for its isolation or self-insulation have been met as long as it lasted etc. That's one question. Of course the same set of questions is the citizens themselves are asking on the spot and equally the same man you see walking with the family a nice time. We wouldn't, I know the Ministers, so you shouldn't. I am simply saying this for the reason that it should be transferred to both the Civil Protection Staff and the practical part. We have some more questions, of course, and as far as sanitary and border sanitary inspectors are concerned, I understand the border sanitary inspectors at the time of entry they must have certain qualifications we had during last year the State Inspectorate Act, several categories, three categories etc., they are not including your system, which was not necessary, but if I am reading the jurisdiction over their actions on this law and the Civil Protection Act has a Civil Protection Staff. So there's a very clear pyramid, a very clear vertical. Now, when it comes to these measures of isolation in the hour, self-insulation and the ultimate quarantine measure, the decision means, according to the, is based on the epidemiological assessment of public health services, doctors of medicine, specialists or some other speciality, and now it says that sanitary inspectors can also accommodate, order isolation in their own home or other suitable space. Maybe I don't understand enough, but it's either overlapping or maybe it's not overlapping jurisdiction, but somehow it might be my practice, and it's probably. As far as these criminal provisions are concerned, I believe they're elevated, financial amounts, I believe that's the reason for both the circumstances and the situation that is. I hope it has more pedagogical effect than it needs to be applied and I think that's the reason. Otherwise, as liberals, we're not prone to over-intense, over-penalizing, but I believe you won't be, not you specifically, but headquarters that you'll have to sanction. Once again we will support this law, we will not pollemise what is before the chicken or the egg Although as far as the protection of human rights is concerned, I think he should be more than careful. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199337	Thank you, Comrade Batinic. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is the SDP's Club of Representatives, the debate will be shared by counterpart Jovanovic and counterpart Bauk. The first is a colleague of Jovanovic, please welcome colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199338	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, and on behalf of the SDP Club, I begin this debate thanks to all who directly, directly, participate in the fight against the coronary virus and promote and safeguard the health of all of us. When we talk about this law that is our theme today, then it is good to remember again Andrija Printar in 1926 when he formulated a definition of health that so well reflects everything, everything we follow today, that health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, not just the absence of disease and fatigue. And this very definition best paints the breadth of the law we're discussing. We often say that man is a social, social being. What does this mean, in fact, and how does this affect the health and pandemic of infectious diseases as this one is caused by the Covid-19 virus? It means that we live in the community, we have an interactive relationship with it. the individual affects the state of the community and the community of it. In health terms, an individual’s disease affects the community, but the community’s disease affects the individual, of course the same is true of health. Therefore, social health must never be ignored. In the preservation of social health, individuals, families, institutions such as schools, kindergartens, hospitals, welfare centres, homes for older people, towns, municipalities, counties, headquarters, governments, assemblies play a role. So all of this actually regulates this law that we're discussing today. The health of one community begins with individual health, but equally each individual has a responsibility and everyone can contribute to health. So, first an individual, then an institution and society as a whole. All of this has been particularly expressed at this time of day. That's why we insist so much on the freedoms of each individual, because the quality of life in the 21st century assumes first and foremost freedom. The only idea of real freedom is freedom from fear. Such freedom represents security beyond human solidarity. It represents a chance for self-determination, for self-confirmation, for the deliberate use of your own forces in the work, in the game, in the common life, for participation in nature, in the values of culture, sports, the chance to stay or become healthy. So there is no quality life without health, nor full health without freedom. Because of all of this, this law has a much wider picture than the prevention of infectious diseases, and that is why I prefer to talk not about the fight against the crown of the virus but about the fight for health, and it is always not only the absence of disease and fatigue but the state of total physical, mental and social well-being. And we mustn't forget for a moment. We have heard what this law adopts and I will not repeat it all, I will stress this health aspect where we believe it cannot be disputed to supplement the list of infectious diseases contained in the relevant legal provisions of the new infectious disease Covid-19 which is caused by the SARS code2 virus, to improve the existing regulation of the measures of isolation in the apartment, to prescribe additional powers to the competent sanitary inspectors in the exercise of supervision of public protection measures against infectious diseases, and to prescribe new criminal and appropriate levels of fines. What I would like to say at the very end of my part is that we believe that the issue of self-insulation is well resolved and highlighted, therefore isolation in our own home or in an appropriate other space if there are appropriate conditions for the simple reason why in such epidemics we must ensure that hospital capacities are ready for those who need it most. I am pleased to point out that for any violation of the provisions of this law, the sanitary inspector of the state inspectorate may charge a fine of £5.00 on the spot. I hope that this punishment is above the canonical law and that anyone who violates the provisions of this law, as well as priests who hold the service with a fee of 5.00, may be punished and thus contribute to the state budget. Andrija Printer, mentioned at the very beginning, and I'm going to finish with him, points out that all of us people are equal in our same and basic need for health. The same is the inalienable right to a healthy life, in peace without national religious or any other discrimination. Therefore, all measures must be timely, effective and transparent with a minimal impact on human rights guaranteed in the constitution, which will be followed by more colleagues, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199339	Continuing fellow Bauk, please just a little intervention. Thank you. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199340	Col. Jovanovic said something about the health aspect of this law, and in that part we have no objections. As far as the constitutional aspect is concerned, we have proposed an amendment to the article. The 10th law. In the light of the amendment, we have stated why we are doing it. Therefore, it is evident that the proposed amendment was due to the fact that during the current COVID-19 Civil Protection Headquarters, measures of the prescribed article were adopted. 47. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases even though there was no legal basis for it, and with this proposal, amending and supplementing the law, the existing situation is trying to legalise itself. We agree with this principle even though we feel that such practice is not particularly good or desirable, but someone had to make decisions that had been made. With their content, we're not talking about the procedure, but the content we don't have major objections, some details might be fixed, but in principle we didn't have any objections. However, the Centre of Civil Protection is an operational and implementing body and should remain in the future. The power to adopt security measures which may restrict the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be with persons or bodies who have legitimacy and direct political responsibility for their activities. We therefore propose not to confer additional powers on the Ministry of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, but to obtain from the Government of the Republic of Croatia other than the Minister of Health Affairs. In fact, the next period will either be the headquarters or the government, as proposed, will have to make more political and less professional decisions. Because the balance between the economy and the epidemiological and health situation is no longer a professional decision but a political decision. And it is certain that doctors should not be put in a position to decide on the economic aspects of the crisis. It is up to them to provide health assessments, epidemiological assessments, warnings of possible consequences, and then the government that is responsible, will assess how much more economic and health benefits will prevail in this balance. So it is certain that a 24-hour quarantine for all citizens would have the best effect not to spread the virus, but it would have a devastating effect on society and the economy. But this balance should be brought by a political body based on the imputability of the profession. When that happens in the Republic of Croatia we stay, it remains to be seen. Yes, from this pay phone or from the one in the INA building, I have often warned that the decisions he's made by headquarters are, come on, I'm not going to say illegal, but they're semi-legal, one gray zone that's easily challenged, relatively easily challenged in court. When this is all over some people or some people, some entities will realize that decisions have caused them certain damage and will require compensation from the state. The arguments of the state would be much stronger if decisions were made in the assembly with an invitation to the article. 17. Something weaker, but strong enough for some measures would be if they were brought to the assembly with an article. 16. The Constitution. As they've been brought so far, the state's arguments are weak. When we pass this law, the state's arguments will be something stronger, but the question is how strong they will be if they continue to work like this. And those damages will have to be paid, it'll be the state again, in a year, in five, for seven, depending on how the judiciary responds. In order to prevent this and not do even greater economic damage to the country, we propose a solution like this. It's very simple. Decisions are taken by the government as a democratic body with political legitimacy. What the Constitution calls for will be brought by the Assembly either way. 16. So half the majority, either per article. 17th-thirds majority, and my message to the citizens to respect the decisions that have been made and which are in force, but yes, but also if they think they can be better criticised and proposed changes. Because these decisions were also made without a public debate that was objectively not even the time when they were made without additional arguments and without further explanations, and then things were fixed in walking. And we can accept that it lasted 7, 15 or even 30 days, but this is becoming one permanent state and it is better to round it legally in a way that all citizens will know what they can and can't. SDP club If our amendment is accepted [[Intruder: Thank you]] They'll uphold the law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199341	And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is the discussion of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Zekanovic's first colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199342	Dear Vice President and Honorable Minister, at the beginning of this debate I asked you some questions, I haven't received an answer yet. I will repeat the questions, and you as a proposing have the right and opportunity to come here, so here I expect you to come here and say it. I'll start by saying that you're a refresher, actually as a minister, and I'm glad, I support this way that you're in charge of this crisis and I can agree with most of the measures that you're carrying out. However, the Croatian Parliament is where the accounts are held and you must lay them down. Who? People, and we are the voice of the people, we are the intercessors between the people and you in executive power or in crisis headquarters wherever you are. So the questions are simple and I'll repeat them. You were wrong, I believe, Croatia is according to what I have checked several times 54 of the world's 200 countries, meaning 25% of the worst countries in the number of deaths compared to the number of inhabitants. It's a fact, it's a college and it's like that. I'm not saying that you've done a bad job, but that's how it is, some countries may not be tested that much, and maybe they're testing more than we are, now it's for a deeper analysis that I'm not ready for, and you can analyze it a little deeper and let us know that we're standing in the context of the whole world, but that's a fact. The second question was one banal question, but it's very important to people who deal with it. It's about recreational fishing, and I got an official e-mail from headquarters that says that recreational fishing is even individually prohibited. And I think that's not good, because I have an extremely large voice of people from the field, so people call, ask in wonder, is it possible that I can sit alone on the coast of the Adriatic Sea, on the coast of Krka, Drava, Sava, Danube and look into the river or the sea, and if I did, we would say tuna in Sibenik, Dalmatia or that fishing stick, and then I'm in violation. So it's not, it's weird, it's not right. When we talk about measures here I have to criticise some other measures, some things are corrected and I am glad that Croatian sovereigns have started talking about opening markets before, I am glad that they are open, I think that this can still be liberalized both at fish shops and at markets, but it is good that it has started. Furthermore, I have to ask the same question here that kills me, I'm glad that the factories are still working for me in Sibenik and Međimurje. Here I hear today the factory of almost 1,000 textile workers is working and let it work great, I'm glad. There are several construction sites in Sibenik, and there are several hundred workers in the building, and there are good things to do, but then I would still be equally.../incomprehensible/... estimating absolutely everything, so I would like it to be evaluated in this way and the work of the assembly, there are 20 of us here, the other day there were 200 of us in the hall in Westin and I will mention don't blame me on Holy Mass, some people find it very important. So if you can do 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, let's go and see if you can do this 6 thing. You made yourself a precedent on Hvar. I'm not against it, I'm glad the Hvars followed the cross, just wondering if it was released because it was UNESCO's heritage or religious ritual. If it was released because it was a religious ceremony then it was to be played on Brač and in Sibenik and elsewhere, and if it was released because it was UNESCO's heritage and then I don't like it, then it's bad and it's upside down. I have nothing against UNESCO's heritage but I think it's more important, in fact, that it is a religious, religious ritual and that should have been made possible and wider. And I asked another question that I have here, and I know that there are epidemiologists that are significantly disputed about numbers, but here you are as health minister and as a doctor, tell me, explain, because that's neither to me nor to the citizens is clear. In India, we have 300,000 tested, 10 thousand patients, only 300-thousand deaths are similar situations in Pakistan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, etc., so these are countries that have 100 million inhabitants, billions of people, billions of people who, despite not applying these social distance measures and the other measures we apply, do not have that growth, just to see what we're learning about, to learn and you'll all be smarter and progress together. Furthermore, I would also like to hear your comment on the Danish model, in Sweden especially, on what is happening in Belarus. These are questions that people are interested in. When people don't hear the answers from you to those questions as experts and responsible persons right now, then different theories will begin. When you answer these questions, when you've informed yourself, then there's no theory. Here's an advance thank you, and here's hoping this third try will get answers, thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199343	A small intervention, wait for Mr. Glasnović. Here, go ahead, take the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199344	Dear colleagues and times of crisis have all our ideas, my doctors saved this life I have complete confidence in the service, but they only obey orders. You have a strategic level, it's a strategic level, an operational tactical level. Question 5 people called me today and everything will be clearer in a month, two, the Americans will know how many people died, the people of Covida-19 died, as much as.../incomprehensible/... than other diseases. People call me and ask me what's wrong with other patients are they threatened? Now there's a marshal Beroš who's not the one on the list, let's say the priority is now Covid-19, and these oncologically these other people, I've been called by a woman from Vinkovaca for 40 years, actually her daughter has metastases, what about these other people, how many of them are dying at home without care, is the weight transferred to, to, to, to, that statistics we don't have, but we'll have very soon. What else, what else are you talking about? We know some things that Trump has lost this world health organization, America has been paying 1/5 budgets for these critters, sorosa Bill Gates who also had a share in Wuhan in these labs dealing with biological research, what we're going to see now. We have one spectrum of Japanese, total state closure on the other side of Sweden, now death there I think about 1,000 and something, a month ago it was zero. All this will show lessons learned by the end of this year. I drank before for the disinfection of nursing homes, if we had laws and standard procedures, we should have done the first disinfection if we knew that two months ago he died in Seattle half of this nursing home for Covida-19. How many Croatia today has beds per 100,000 inhabitants in intensive care. Germany has at least now these consequences of the Corona virus and the transfer we know from Alsace, France, Spain, Italy, Germany, transfer people to intensive care by air bridge to Germany because now Germany has about 40,000 of these for intensive bed care for those heads. What about the strategic reserve of Croatia? 80%.../incomprehensible... of the money in that former South was in the army. Finland used its strategic reserve from the glorious war, they didn't get rid of it, they had at least in that first line, they had protective units, of course spent, which are not for long-term use. Now what? The hard exam for the church, the HND downstairs, I don't think I'm going to say Yugoslav journalistic society, they're dealing with the church now, and they're not dealing with shipments from China, a country where millions of people are in concentration, where organs are sold, every kidney, 40,000, where they're harvested by organs, where they're killed by some estimates of 40-50 thousand people for kidneys, hearts, etc., they're being silenced. Where these great democracies, NGOs and human rights fighters, and they received a shipment from China, a shipment and we paid for it, we should have given China that shipment for free because there, there began this coronary virus, they were covering up the scale of it, gone now 2 doctors are gone, one died of the crown he was censored etc., these are my questions. This one about that shipment, we should have paid for it and who we're working with, if we're talking about human rights. On the subject of the church, could a standard procedure have been made, I am not theologian and of course St. Peter was buried in this one in Rome there's a hierarchy, not in Vodice, and it's hard for the priests now, has the Reverend acted down on his conscience it'll all show history, but why doesn't the Yugoslav journalistic society talk about this, and they talk about the church. I won't go any further, we have this one you can ask Miss Shuicu who's now that democracy commissioner, demography what's going to happen to the project, I have this lady we've been putting on the fridge when you go eat you can look over there, glue it, you have what it is With children and for some people we also have a mask to protect [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'll share it later he can't treat the crown but maybe he can do something else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199345	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199346	Thank you very much. Article 238 I am sorry you are not.../incomprehensible/... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, it is unacceptable to insult journalists, the Croatian Journalist Society in the way Mr. Glasnović does, and I believe that it is not appropriate in this House to step forward and ask you to remind him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199347	Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you, we're moving on. Therefore, the following is the intervention on behalf of the proposing fellow Minister Willy Beros. Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199348	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs, I have remained obliged to answer some questions and, of course, we will not skip that. I'd be happy to answer that, even though they require longer labs than these five minutes I have. So, I appreciate your efforts to look at epidemiological achievements, but I've been talking about the number of deaths to the number of patients, that's the relevant data mainly for the burden of the health system. The number of deaths per total population is something else and it is not so relevant because in a small Malta if several patients die in a small number of citizens you have a completely inadequate situation. So for what I wanted to stress in the context of the burden of the health system, we looked at the mortality rate that was the number of deaths to the number of patients, and it is certainly as much as I said. Furthermore, you've been looking for me to fish, and I agree, and personally in one of the media shows I said that when someone hunts for a fish alone that they can hunt it, there are no obstacles, I've checked with the epidemiologists they'll fix it. This is a new business process, and in all this we've been thinking about some elements since the day before yesterday, so a lot of things have already been corrected, I believe this one. Of course, there's a danger that someone who hunts fish goes alone and ends up in a society that is extremely undesirable. And third, I wanted to tell you that the situation in India is not that simple. Perhaps there are a small number of newly ill people precisely because India has 1 laboratory to prove positive for 75 million inhabitants. Unlike India, Germany has 1 laboratory at 12,000, which might include some kind of epidemiological information. In any case, by analysing the measures, which we do every day, we see that in India, almost the same scale of measures is in force, with what they use and those bamboo sticks that we don't do. So that's my answer to your question. And I'd only tell you at the end because now you've mentioned Sweden in your address. Of course we're watching what the Swedes are doing, we're going to see their results, but the fact that they're saying that a certain part of the high age population is not going to be treated is absolutely something that while we're here and we're acting as a government, headquarters and I as a health minister absolutely won't be questionable, every life is equally important to us. So that's the answer to you, if there are any further questions I'm available. I also want to answer my colleagues to Jovanovic because I think the questions are absolutely justified. First of all, 2.4. I issued a very clear and decided guide to all health institutions on how to calculate overtime, on the compensation during self-insulation, it is more than clear and after a number of information that has come to me about any irregularities, yesterday I even publicly read this article, which refers to the overtime hours in order to avoid any doubt, very clearly, that we want to calculate the work that is invaluable to the health of the Croatian people. You also asked me about any possible consideration of fees, they are welcome, we are already thinking about them, but I have to be honest with you and tell you that they will depend on the current financial moment when we think about it and therefore, if this threat doesn't last too long, I believe there will be room for that to happen. And the third perhaps most important question of yours, which is the functioning of the rest of the health institutions and those who are not therefore Covid positive and the exercise of their rights. On several occasions, a very clear instructions from the ministry has been sent that all emergency situations must be adequately treated, whether they are neurological, cardiological, gastrointestinal or any other, and special care and care must be taken about patients with malignancies. It's said on several occasions. What I would further like to say, yes, thank everyone for following our work, but also that one fact apparently came out of focus, which is that the measure of isolation or self-insulation I declared myself. So, on 14.3. the first such measure was signed and 6 more with a change in the definition of the country to which it applies, so this measure was introduced by my decision so that I don't think that any future lawsuits are irrelevant and I'm going to repeat that all measures taken exclusively from us are taken to protect human health and life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199349	We have six replicas on your intervention. He is his first colleague, Bulj, followed by his colleague, Zekanovic, and Pernar. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199350	Thank you very much. The respected ministers are familiar, and the tribal would be whether the employees in the Split home had, in a home for older and powerless, had protective departments and equipment, and did not, did the information come out that they were not responsible for you and that there were no equipment, and we know that the owner of a home for older and powerless Split-Dalmatia County, those who would tribal to take care of what you are imposing measures because all of my people, mainly my Split-Dalmatia County, is in a bunker, as you would say, all of us in a bunker, but naked we received ministers in extensions, and we still can't get permission to make this joint agreement between local self-government that people can make their agricultural land, so that they can go to ATMs simply we in Cetitinska region, Split is forbidden to continue to move because of this institution that is owned by the county Do you know this question of mine? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199351	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199352	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I was downstairs, and I'm somewhat familiar with the situation, although it's been sent to inspection that will resolve the story until the end. All health institutions received notice in time and those in the context of the Ministry of Demography, notice of the need to obtain medical equipment, therefore on owners and founders, which is the county to take care of it. My preliminary information is that there was enough protective equipment and that is not the reason for the infection, although it may sometimes be, in a particular case, I don't think that's the reason. Once the inspection determines all the details of this, we'll be able to bring certain further courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199353	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199354	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, here I have received a more or less answer to everything I asked, we will commend you and I have commended you, come on you haven't told the truth, I haven't told the truth either, so the figures can be looked at like this, but okay, we've made that clear. There's one thing that my colleague Bulj mentioned, I have to get a little bit attached, if you're going to criticise then we really fell home, there we fell like a state, not you but we all fell because we have 8 homes for the elderly, and the whole job was to protect homes with the elderly, unable to get the virus in, and that's one problem where we fell, and it has to be solved I don't know which way and the sooner and that's what it is. Two tips, you must as minister stimulate all chronic patients to go to the doctor, no longer go to the doctor because of the fear of the coronary virus and the short question of how many of the dead in Croatia today have died of the coronary virus, and how many with the coronary virus?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199355	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199356	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, so I didn't say you weren't telling the truth. I just said that these are things that can't be compared. Health homes are a problem, the instructions were more than clear, the service users were adequately treated, neither went out, nor the servants came to them, the food was delivered in an adequate way, therefore the problem is with the employees of the homes for the elderly. They even worked two shifts and changed, but apparently in all this, as Germany, Italy, France, Austria and even Slovenia failed us. We are now thinking about how to preserve not only the users but also the employees, but it is so complex that it is not easy to solve and you are absolutely right that this is a particular problem, but we find, we are trying to find solutions and for that. And you asked me something else? Yeah, yeah, most of them die with the virus, not the virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199357	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Pernar's. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199358	Dear Ministers, every day I get new people whose family members died because the ambulance didn't arrive on time. Or they complain with mahogany that the emergency system is not working as it has worked until then, but even if you claim that it works the same way and you think all these people are likely to see it or see it wrong, I want to know what's wrong with all those people who need health care, who are currently being denied. People who can't go to dentists, people who've been denied preventive checks, people who have to go to treatment or surgery, who are not in your opinion an emergency. When these people will receive health care and ultimately, if they do not receive it urgently, are you immediately aware of how many deaths we will have because they were denied the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199359	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199360	I'll answer that. So, I'm not saying that everything works perfectly, it claims that we are functioning at the time of the epidemic, a very specific epidemic that carries life and that the mode of functioning of the health system is adapted to that. All my instructions to medical institutions are exactly based on what you said, which is that emergency medical activities and emergency situations must be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199361	Mr. Pernar, please. Let's continue, comrade Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199362	Thank you. Dear Ministers, therefore, report to me from the field that certain local headquarters, regionally, have made decisions that were contrary to the instructions of the crisis headquarters issued by another 2.4, so that one part of the people, the positive patients, have forced them to move to another city in which even the family could not make the most basic hygiene needs, some have kept them for up to 40 days and are now reportedly still having symptoms, fired. So, do you have any knowledge of this and how you comment on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199363	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199364	Your Honor, sir, I have all the knowledge of this, I can comment on it the following way. The county headquarters of civil protection have done so in their best belief that they are thus safeguarding the health of their county's citizens. It's a legitimate idea and a legitimate move, but it's not consistent with what the national headquarters is carrying out, and for reasons that we said it's impossible to ensure that anyone who's infected and got sick and has no symptoms being in a health institution. For this reason we have just enabled this self-insulation and for those people who have adequate, the possibility of self-insulation is more acceptable to be home. Because there isn't a country that could guarantee all the patients some kind of hospital accommodation. We communicated it with the local county headquarters, explained the situation again, and they did the same thing after you said. However, I must say, it was done in the best of intentions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199365	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague Ostojic and then his colleague, Glasovic. That's when we ended up replicating your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199366	Dear Ministers and the trip to hell is paved by good intentions, so I understand that it may have been a good intention, but you didn't answer the first question in the first line, when it came to the first question. How many self-insulation solutions have been issued by the health inspectors? I'm saying this for the reasons that maybe you as a health care professional or a man who doesn't necessarily have to, I'm surprised that depriving justice means that someone has to be in isolation isn't done as it says in the law. Therefore, it is one thing, if such solutions are not issued, it means that someone is denied the right to complain about it. And third is it true that people are actually fired if they have conditions for home isolation by an elimination question, which reads "Do you have the conditions for home isolation?" I think isolation means very clearly that it can't come to a situation That it could endanger someone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199367	Thank you. Here's your answer. Comrade Ostojić, please microphone, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199368	I must admit that at this point, I do not have an absolute number of self-insulation solutions issued, my colleague Capak probably has, I don't have one, I stopped following those numbers a long time ago. Yes, at first we issued solutions to everyone, after the number mainly at the border crossings became so much that it became too much of a burden not for our services but for the citizens who entered, then by a certain decision and a solution stopped doing so. However, there is a repositories of all those persons who have been given self-insulation recommendations and at any time can be checked whether or not the self-insulation measure is recommended. And you asked me something else? To release, so it's an epidemiological profession that has defined the criteria that one must meet to settle for self-insulation upon release. This may seem to all of us at the first moment yes, but he will infect his householders, however, a warning has also been issued. Or a reference to 10 things that one must respect in order not to endanger others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199369	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation of fellow Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199370	Dear Ministers, here's the question of one moral question, it's a moral question there's a morale in the fog, from which we bought the equipment, now we see that Trump burned off this world health organization, it's taken Gates and other characters, and how can we buy shipping that's a question for the newspaper not for Glasnović for the state that carried out.../incomprehensible/... its own peoples, and that's the Chinese Communist Party. Where's the morale? I know that some of the doctors here were members of that party, and they're a lot of them, and we'd have to deal with that moral issue. The second issue of the EU conference has been postponed until 9 months, which is what we will get from the EU in terms of medical equipment, assistance, etc., to improve this system if Commissioner Dubravka Shuica, Commissioner for Democracy and this democracy, knows it. These are simple questions, and we don't have to go back to the better past, the Jovanovic primary, do we? was a better past. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Did you have to go from Tuzla...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199371	Thank you, thank you for asking the question, Minister, so we are. Yes, yes, so please question and your time is up. [[/Intruder: Minister, yes, yes.]] Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199372	Dear Mr. Representative, I think that everyone in the world and in Europe must be happy that in China the epidemic has in some way been edging and that they have launched their production capacities as well as the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in personal contact with the Chinese Prime Minister, has agreed to deliver protective equipment. Yeah, she's Chinese. However, it has been certified and saved by the heads of our healthcare professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199373	We're done, we're done with clubs, we're on our way to an individual debate. First is colleague Branko Bačić, individual debate, please welcome colleague Bačić, 5 minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199374	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. On the part of the amendments and addition of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases relating to the health aspect, there is no need to say anything more, nor am I expert in this, but apparently that part of the law, has almost unanimous support here in HS. The question arises and our colleagues in the opposition are trying to make a questionable part of the law relating to legality, justification, true justification, measures taken by the Civil Protection Staff and the incorrect proposal of the Art. 18, which, in their view, refers to the retroactivity of certain measures. First of all, as far as this part is concerned, whether something is legal or in accordance with the Constitution, whether or not it is. First of all, I would like to say that anyone who assesses that such measures are contrary to the Constitution can refer the law and other general acts to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. Therefore, if this happens, the Constitutional Court will be declared on the one hand, but on the other hand, what is more important to me, there is an art. 129. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which states that the Constitutional Court is monitoring the achievement of constitutionality and legality, and that the observed occurrences of non-constitution and illegality are being reported by HS. I'm sure that through this time since Mr. Secretary declared the epidemic, and that was March 11th, a number of measures have been taken. The Croatian public is very closely following these measures and what the headquarters is, so I believe the Constitutional Court is also following. I suppose that, if such measures had led to the violation of the Constitution that the Constitutional Court would have already submitted a report with its HS report, it would have warned us, but not only had it not been but even the President of the Constitutional Court in one of its opinions had already, in such a way, assessed, therefore, the existing measures adopted in the Republic of Croatia by the Civil Protection Staff. The second thing that we keep forgetting, which is that on March 19th here in HS we have voted for the amendments and additions of the Civil Protection System Act which we have changed, as it says in the law, in these amendments, we have authorised the Civil Protection Staff at national level to, in times of special circumstances, this is precisely the time when the pandemics are declared in the world, and in the Republic of the pandemics, and what circumstances threaten the lives and health of our fellow citizens, their property, etc., make decisions and instructions carried out by the Staff of Civil Protection at lower levels, so on the levels of the unit of local and regional self-government. Therefore, we are these amendments to the Civil Protection System Act, Art. 22a. Do I have very, very, very broad powers to the Civil Protection Headquarters, and now I have to say a little bit and a wonder when we look under special increases, and the same measures that the two-thirds majority council with 108 votes here in HS has made possible that same Civil Protection Staff. And if, in my opinion, this discrepancy about what is being said and what is being carried out, and looking at it from the optics of the opposition is being seen, the fact is that it is trying to interpret that the decisions made by the Civil Protection Staff and signed by the chairman of the headquarters, the Minister of Interior and the Vice-President of the Government, are a dictatorship, and if such measures were based on the second law, the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases by the minister, it would be democracy. So, this seems to me to be in disorientation when one headquarters sitting in and representing the ministry's position when it comes to making decisions of the headquarters, even more so, when in that same headquarters, I thank God and welcome, excellently, this job is done by the Minister of Health at that same headquarters, then it is brought into question, and they are questionable measures prescribed by the Civil Protection Staff. I can say and express my gratitude and full support for the work of headquarters, the work of ministers and all staff members on what they have done and what the figures we have heard about from Mr. Minister's best show [[Intruder: Thank you]] how and how the headquarters works. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199375	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. We have one replica. Comrade Ostojić to your presentation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199376	Comrade Bačić, in amending the law, we were all in agreement and we supported these amendments precisely because it clearly stated "in the framework of the law", within the framework of the law, within the powers of the headquarters. Not by any chance, not by any chance. Therefore, I would ask you to be careful when you say that we have paid for it, there would be no of these today's changes on the agenda if this one wasn't loud and clear at the time, and that's that solid, unique, exactly we're going to expand, but within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199377	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ostojić, I think it is also in the reasoning of this law, and also in the part where Mr. Minister spoke of amendments and additions to the law, we are talking about one phenomenon, epidemic, pandemic which has also been declared by the World Health Organization, which is also the world, and we are in the Republic of Croatia for the first time, and therefore for these very reasons we have brought amendments and additions to the Civil Protection System Act not knowing then and how the situation with the enlargement of the epidemic will take place in the Republic of Croatia, and in the whole world. And precisely because these measures have been adopted and complemented, now these amendments to the laws of the Member States. 18 and the same measures in a certain way confirm that they are in accordance with the Law on the System of Civil, System, the Law on Prevention, the protection of the public against infectious diseases. So, I absolutely think that's the way these measures are and everything. which was done by the Civil Protection Headquarters [[Intruder: Thank you]] and in accordance with the Civil Protection System Act and the Law on Public Protection [[Intruder: Thank you]] To finish a sentence only, about the protection of the public [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Well 10 seconds have passed]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199379	You remind me of one, remind me of one representative... All right, Isolate, here's your colleague Bulj, individual debate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199380	Dear Ministers, on retroactivity or legality, i.e. This retroactiveity of this law and the legality of the work of the headquarters has been said here. However, I would talk more here about what you are in charge of, and what has been happening mainly in the homes of health, now we are going to mention, we must not forget that the homes of health are essentially the key, they are health care, essentially the flow of the Republic of Croatia. But unfortunately, health services outside of this pandemic, you know, with Hvar you are from origin, when someone draws blood that must travel to Split, in Split that blood if there is no this ship if the south or the storm can't come this blood to an analysis, so from Makarska to Kaštel, so it's the whole system, mainly in Split-Dalmatia County is in ruins. That's what I've been telling you and it's good. And as for this pandemic, an epidemic, which you're not to blame, or any of us here, it's here, you've brought certain measures as a headquarters. I've agreed with some, most of them, with some of them I'm not, introducing a follow-up to this. The Law on Electronic Communications sent by the Government here did not agree to return, I do not trust Plenkovic either, I do not trust this Bozinovic either, I do not trust Kopal, but I trust people who send messages from the profession to keep our distance and try to fight this pandemic in the way possible. However, the fact is, I have been saying this all morning, and for days, I see that in my, in Split, Split-Dalmatia County, we have problems because of the failure of institutions owned by the Split-Dalmatia County are there put people in the leading places as in the nursing home i.e. A home for the elderly and, and this powerless, were appointed by people who are neither competent, simply by political ID. And even a political party card doesn't matter that a man is a professional, simply people have no idea where they are, they don't communicate well, they send terrible messages and they're going down, they're going to make a real mess that's already reflected, as I mentioned around the accession cards. Let's say the same agglomeration, my son-in-law from the Croats a man that, to pour fuel into a vehicle can't pass without this one without police control, is that right, that's the measure. I expected this measure, the agreement was signed between the mayor and the mayor of the Cetina region, but because of Boban's and Sanader's arrests, that measure cannot go through today, and it saddens me. I'm saddened by what I've been warning all along if I know what health services are like in the Cetina region, I know how the county works, that simply those who lose the election, here's the man who lost the election in Omis, so he named it no matter what it doesn't matter, no matter what profession, no one named it. It was appointed by Sanader, now the HDZ political secretary, the key man Andrej Plenkovic, appointed him as director of the home of health. We have the same case, I'm just going to tell you that you colleagues and colleagues know the people. In the island, they lost HDZ elections and their deputy veterinarian was appointed head of a construction company called Cetina, owned by Split-Dalmatia County, set up a veterinarian, have no dibs on it, so they put him in charge. That's right here, we can't play with people's health here. It's been played so far. This pandemic will pass, let's keep the homes of health. In my Sinj they were able to shut down and still intend to target both maternity and stationery, and, and, and, and, and, and all that we, the women who work on, the radiologists, the ambulance was in trouble unloved. Simply these people are forgotten, and there live many inhabitants, people in rural areas who have no daily communication, no more traffic and bus. So, we simply after this pandemic that we're going to win, I believe, now that it's going to last, it's going to take, but please, please, all your colleagues and colleagues, your superiors, you who are here, stop the dying of the health services that died. 10 years ago. I organized protests in Sinj, 10 years ago, not from the health profession, but as a human ordinary, I must collect petitions to at least stay in the Cetina region which is larger than Međimurje County, more inhabitants have, it is more superficial than Ličko-Senj County. No mercy, that was a bit of a bite. In whose interest? For who? For what? So once again I call on you to protect the homes of health, the public health system that serves and services that serve our citizens I'd like to ask you to send those strong messages. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199381	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Zeljko Reiner, please welcome Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs, dear ministers. Well, I guess it's time to get back to the law. We talked about everything and everything, we went very far, but let's go see if this law is good or if someone has any objections to it. I've never heard any convincing remarks before, and I've gotten the impression that most people actually support that law. It complements the list of infectious diseases that are with a new infectious disease COVID-19, which improves the existing regulation of the measures of this isolation in the apartment, or how we define colloquial isolation today, which regulates the general institutional model of crisis management in a situation where the World Health Organization declares pandemic, a global pandemic, and the Republic of Croatia simultaneously declares an epidemic, which proposes that a decision to declare an outbreak of infectious disease be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Minister of Health would be authorised to declare a threat to an epidemic of an infectious disease, which prescribes additional powers to competent sanitary inspectors in the exercise of control of measures to protect the population against infectious diseases and prescribes an appropriate level of monetary penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of that law. And that's what the law says. There's been a lot of talk about everything else and all sorts of circumstances. But I say again, we need to focus on what's important, and the important thing is that we live in a situation where at this point more than 2 million kunas in the world is infected, is sick of COVID-19 disease. We live in a situation where at this point more than 150,000 people died of this disease. We live in a situation where, thanks to the measures taken by the headquarters, by the ministry, by the government, among the best about how many people have been sick and how many people have died of this disease, a disease that will not disappear tomorrow and will not disappear by itself, a disease for which, I repeat, we do not have an adequate cure and we probably won't have it very soon either. He's trying to treat himself with different kinds of medicines, but it's, it's, there's no real research, there's no real evidence that they work, etc. There are no vaccines for this, and it takes quite a long time to infect the vaccine, and let's face it, it can't be done in a few months. Therefore, this is the situation in which we live. And now let's ask ourselves a question, if we want to and analyze legally whether it was like that or not, some, some, they get caught up in certain legal details, thinking that they are or aren't right, but in the end, we're wondering if we think that what has been done so far, what the government has done so far, bad, whether more people should have died, whether more people should have gotten sick, certainly not, none of us thinks so. Therefore, it is normal and it seems quite understandable to me that this law will be adopted with a large majority of votes, I hope even unanimously because it actually sets the criteria for this present and future state, a condition that is deadly, a condition that refers to a deadly infectious disease. And maybe just say one more thing. They mentioned politicisation, parties, etc., the virus doesn't know if anyone in the SDP or whether it was in HDZ or in any other party, we're all equally exposed to it, but also involved in it. My colleague Kolarić, here, who showed a very interesting and useful app yesterday, I think, this is how much I know is a member of the SDP's advice and nothing bothered with it for health care and nothing bothered to contribute. The battle against the crown. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199383	We have three replicas on your exhibit. She is the first colleague of Pusic, after which her colleague Bulj and counterpart Stazic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199384	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Reiner, no one questioned because most people agree that many of the things that have happened and the measures they have taken have been well taken. We question what our job is. We as a parliament at this time must defend and we as a state must defend and special measures and respect the law. It's our job and this law can start from the moment it's passed. What's the point is that there's no need for him to have that clause, or that article that makes him retroactive, and it's really retroactive, really no one can question it, especially given the arguments that we've heard here, that we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199385	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199386	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. Pusic, of course, I'm glad we'll all support that, obviously your club will support that, too, I hope. But this one, I think, has been made clear, has several forms in the law of retroactivity. Retroactivity which is covered by art. 90. The constitution when it comes to something that happened in the past and it is possible in accordance with Article. 90. The Constitution to bring such a conclusion or conclusion to the law... The law that applies to this and retroactivity under allegations that is unfair retroactiveness, seemingly quasi-retroactivity, are all the expressions that lawyers use, when the store is still under way, when it starts happening in the past, it is ongoing and will be in the future, and we are just talking about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This infection [[Intruder: Thank you]] The disease didn't pass. [[Intruder: Thank you]] It is today and it will be. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199387	Thank you, colleague. The next replica of my colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199388	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, I think the opposition, including the MOST Club, was constructive in all measures of the government, and so on about the measures that are here, no matter what the amendments we had, we supported those measures, in the second reading they went as the same measures as we gave the amendments. So the opposition here was constructive and the MOST Club was constructive. However, as far as the coronaryvirus is concerned, the biggest problem is what in my Split-Dalmatia County is the head of a man who said when a coronary virus was proven in a home for older and powerless that 10 days had already occurred in the user and later it was proven that a large number of these users were infected. And today, and today we have more, it seems to me, 12 new people, and the whole region is now in a blockade because of this person who acted irresponsiblely, and it's set up because he doesn't have absolutely, it doesn't matter even a party card, does he absolutely have anything to do with it, anything with that profession other than what he was? Former mayor, lost his election in Omis [[Intruder: Thank you]] And the names of Sanader... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199389	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199390	Well, I think the answer was actually given earlier by Mr. Secretary when he said the investigation was ongoing and only when the investigation is complete will we be able to tell what really happened there. I think at this point, if he doesn't either, then believe me, neither you nor I have enough information to say who's to blame for entering the Split home of the elderly and the powerless of that infection. We'll find out, and I think the culprit will have to answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199391	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199392	Comrade Reiner, you are absolutely right that the virus does not know party belongings, he likely equally attacks HDZ and SDP alike. But party membership is recognised by a mayor who has been completely incompetent and inadequately placed on the head of a nursing home. You say we'll find out who did it when the investigation's over. But how long will this investigation take? 2.g.? To determine that, if a man hadn't responded for 10 days, he didn't know at all whether his protégés had a fever or not. Well, look, there's an obvious responsibility, and that's the political responsibility and political responsibility of the person who put that person there. It's not a virus, it's a matter of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199394	So look, when you live, there's a saying, when you live in a glass house, then don't throw stones at yourself. I know very well when the SDP was the leader of the coalition that was in power that you put a veterinarian for the headmaster of an old and powerless home. So if you think that qualification is great for the elderly and the powerless, someone who otherwise treats, I don't know, horses, pigs, etc., then it's probably not important political, nor this party membership, nor the obvious waist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199395	And by doing that, we ended up replicating your exposure. We continue with an individual debate, next is counterpart Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199396	Thank you, Vice President, dear Minister, distinguished associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in front of us all this morning, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, a law which the Republic of Croatia has already had for many years and which is very good, which was passed since 2007. and included almost everything needed to protect Croatian citizens. However, due to some new infectious diseases, these diseases that have changed their epidemiology, as well as the need for a spot response in order to protect human health, have proved necessary to amend this legislative approach or to simplify the procedure for determining such diseases and, therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Population of Infectious Diseases, the Minister responsible for Health of the Authority's Day, to adopt lists of infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic. Since then, only those infectious diseases of interest to the Republic of Croatia have been mentioned in the law itself to which certain measures prescribed by that law are linked or the competence of individual authorities to implement those measures or their obligations is prescribed. This proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Population of Infectious Diseases requires that the relevant other legal provisions be complemented by a new, new infectious disease that has been caused by so far unknown coronaryvirus, a new coronary virus as officially referred to as SARS code 2 and COVID-19, which is why this law is actually being changed and updated. And what's kind of fascinating is that one, this little micro-organism that can't survive at all for a long time if it doesn't get into someone's organism, that in the 21st century, it can stop normal life almost all of humanity, at a time when we're traveling to space, when we're sending probes to long galaxies, when we're competing to invent the most perfect murder weapon, space shields, I don't know, pro-tourque shields, spend billions of dollars on it, means on that technology, we don't have a solution for this little invisible enemy who's been in the last month or 3 months in the whole world almost brought us back to our modern caves, to our houses, to shut us down to fear and wait for what happens and who's gonna first come up with a vaccine, a cure or something to protect us, to survive. But this virus has brought something good. First, he stopped the planet's pollution, which is strong, and what's visible. Secondly, all of us as citizens around the world, and especially in the Republic of Croatia, have become far more responsible to ourselves, but also to others around us. And the third thing that seems important to me, that we finally realized that human health is first and hopefully here in the political life and next political campaigns, not only in the Republic, but in the whole world, health and health system will be at the top of our campaigns, our struggles, our desire to bring something important and useful to Croatian people, actually to people in the world at all. This will make us change, and hopefully we'll spend billions of dollars spent and weapons disposal on the construction of hospitals, health institutions, laboratories, the purchase of equipment and everything to meet these challenges much more readily. I would like to show both respect and gratitude for the efforts of all public services in the Republic of Croatia at the head of the Minister of Health and the entire headquarters in curbing this infectious disease. I think we've done some very important, valuable things over the past month. First, that these measures that have been taken, which may seem to be strictly secured as few or fewer infected as possible, enabled the health system to prepare, to provide equipment, to secure spaces, to secure beds, to actually ensure that people who can somehow work on this challenge that is ahead of us. And another important thing that seems to me that we have educated our builders over the past month to start acting responsibly and I believe that now that these measures are beginning to give in time, that precisely because of this education, and the responsibilities that we have created in humans and this little fear that has created that we will have a much more responsible person and that we should not have an increase in the number of infected or at least hope that this will not happen and that this number will be reduced as here today is only 37 which is an extremely important and good sign if this continues. I think that's what was important, means that maximum... at the risk of an outbreak in health institutions and nursing homes it's extremely important to me because that's what we're actually reducing exactly this number that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199397	We have two replicas on your exhibition, first colleague Vlaović, after him by his colleague Mrsic. You're dividing the line again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199398	Thank you very much. I think it is time to ask the question of how effective the primary healthcare system is during COVID-19, given the organisational structure of HZJZ, health homes and then private offices. concessionaries who are their place and role, what is their equipment and organization, and in the context of problems in homes for old people where we see that there has been a virus breach in a number of homes, and medical care is on whose burden. We have private concessionaries' contracts, and the burden mostly falls on public health and on health homes. Therefore, it is necessary to separate the public from the private and to publicly commend it once more, and here we need this Andrija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199399	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199400	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic, for this question. Well, this is a really wide topic that could be discussed a lot, and I've run a once-in-a-lifetime health home for a long time, and now I'm the chairman of the board of directors, and I'm seeing all these problems that you've just listed, and I think this crisis is going to help somehow get it back, and the little better the ministry is thinking about it and the way these concessionaries are privatizing and everything in private health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199401	Thank you. And replica last on your presentation by Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199402	Well, in your presentation you've had the praises that have been made, which is perfectly fine that it is so, but what needs to be made very clear and I hope that you will agree with me that Minister Beroš, when this epidemic is over, will end, will have to make a thorough reorganization primarily in the order of primary health care and that this system of concessions introduced by Andrija Hebrang did not bring good to Croatian health because at this point that there is no printer and those of his public health organization,... would not have been a good go in this epidemic. And what we should do, I hope that Minister Beros will answer us in his final statement is the issue of more testing and targetting specific groups, is that something that has resulted in Germany. That's why they have the lowest number of deaths. Obviously, as far as home is concerned, it was too late to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199403	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199404	Well, I'm convinced when we see how the new health minister successfully leads us through this crisis which is extraordinary, which is unpredictable, which is something new, I'm convinced will lead us further through the Ministry of Health and through the... new organization of primary protection, but also the entire health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199405	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, whose prevention and control is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, as well as measures to protect the public from these diseases. Following the creation of the COVID-19 pandemic, certain legal provisions were necessary to complement the new infectious disease caused by the new coronary virus. Under the new legislative proposal, the health minister, on a proposal from the HZZZ, makes a decision to declare the risk of an epidemic of infectious diseases while the decision to declare an outbreak of infectious disease is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Health. This new legislative proposal should be taken into account in the context that we are currently in a situation where the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is considered a endangered or infected area. The reduction of transmission of infectious diseases is a fundamental function of public health laws. The proper exercise of legal powers will vary according to the severity of the disease, the mode of transmission and how easily this infectious disease is transmitted. The law can help prevent infectious diseases by easier access, e.g. Vaccination, relief of breakthrough, counselling and education of those who are at risk of infection. The law also plays a reactive role, it supports access to treatment and empowers public health authorities to limit contact with infected persons and to solve emergencies in order to respond to the epidemic in quality. The current health situation which has taken pandemic proportions in order to spread the infection of the new coronary virus with health and safety measures and all the economic and other consequences of the everyday life of all citizens and society, without exception, raises the question of legal responsibility for the irresponsible and appropriate punishment of dangerous behaviour that endangers the lives of others. If public health laws allow for interference in freedom of movement to control someone's health, privacy and ownership rights, it is necessary to balance these private rights with public health interests in an ethical and transparent manner. The strength of public health should be based on the principles of the necessity of public health, reasonable and effective means, proportionality, distribution justice and transparency. Governments should carefully consider the appropriate role of criminal law when amending the law in order to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases, e.g. penalties for transmission of viral infection may lead to the deterring of individuals from testing and treatment. Therefore, the promotion of personal responsibilities in terms of measures of physical distance or social distance is of crucial importance. Public health laws should only allow mandatory treatment in cases where an individual is unable or refuses to agree to treatment or where his behaviour poses a significant risk of transmission of a serious disease. Provisions of compulsory treatment should only restrict the freedom of an individual to the extent most effective in reducing the risk to public health. Public health laws may authorise the isolation of individuals and groups who may have been exposed to an infectious disease, the exercise of these powers must be based on public health aspects without discrimination or on some inappropriate criteria. These laws should provide for fair compensation to those who have suffered economic loss due to public health rules affecting their assets or institutions, which we have seen in two sets of economic measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I use the opportunity to thank all healthcare professionals and other workers working in the health care system, but also in other systems such as the social care system. This Government of the Republic of Croatia makes decisions through the Civil Protection Staff, is responsible for managing the crisis situation, and it is these healthcare professionals and other health workers who bear the greatest burden on the front line of the fight against the new crown of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199407	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199408	Thank you very much, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Beroš with fellow colleagues one and colleagues. So, when we discuss this law, then of course I will use part of the debate to make things clear. This is something new, no one expected this to be, no one expected us to be treated in 2020 in a way that was in the 19th century by self-insulation. One girl of four, five years old I saw her somewhere asking what was wrong with her, she said I miss dancing, I miss kindergarten, and I miss grandma and did. So we are such a people, we are the people of the Mediterranean, so it lacks movement, it lacks this social component, and it lacks a family, that broad family and association. We're all out of it. Minister Beroš found himself in one situation so he stepped up to be a minister and everything that happened happened happened and should be commended first and foremost to all health care professionals who have selflessly done everything that has been done further, all those who seek to function as well as we normally do. As normal as we'll be, we'll see, that fellow Cellic might have said a little bit more, but we'll just see that behind all this and how we'll be. It should be commended to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, in the main cases, have stuck to it. Why? Out of the unknown, out of fear and the people who came out gave them assurance so must be, we chose to protect lives. Some other countries have defined themselves, I'm talking primarily about Sweden, all the time I'm watching what's going on there is our 4 million, they're 10 million they're opting for something else. This girl told me, so this little girl what's important to us, and we chose to take care of what's important for us to continue, and really everything that you see and what you see even before something was officially declared in the town of Zagreb was seen less cars, less people, and now after Easter, it's all a little different. Whether it's good or not, I know a little bit about it and there's nothing I can say. But let's go back to this law, so the key question is, why is this law coming to us now? Maybe it was supposed to wait, maybe it was supposed to wait a while longer, and then put all those elements in the law that you see now are your problem and your problem in functioning. But under the applicable laws, the minister has so far made a decision on the establishment of a quarantine on 21 February, on 14 March a decision on a special security measure to isolate persons, an epidemic was declared on 11 March, and before that, an outbreak of infectious diseases was reported as a threat to the entire region of the Republic of Croatia on 4 March. So, based on the applicable laws that are still in force, the minister could do it all together and he did it. We're going to change the law now. Why? I must confess that we are reading the only provision here. 18th that retroactivity of application, but yet out of fear. Fear that someone, read a newspaper about what's going on in Austria, someone comes in and sues, sues for something, and that's actually a defense from it, and that's a clear thing to say. So either the law should have come first to the Parliament at the first moment when the law came and the law that we unanimously accepted without debate on that that the National Staff was making decisions was clear to us that in this situation it was only possible or this law should come then, so all other decisions should be tied to that law or with this law should wait, seeing everything else that you are now because these are some new circumstances. Did any doctor, I see there's a lot of you here, expect us to defend ourselves in 2020 against the virus by self-insulating? Well, no one did, so the way it was done in the 19th century, so no one expected it. Maybe it was supposed to wait, then install everything that was needed. Of course, we're bothered by this retroactive application, we're reading it in a way that we're a little bit afraid of, we might have said a little too much hop, maybe even that headquarters was making some decisions that were speculative to us, so let's put it in and make an emergency change and supplement of the law and install it. In that sense, we have given two amendments from the Voice. So we'll see what happens. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199409	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199410	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed Minister Berosha. I don't suffer so much from the form, the law is now passed when it's passed, we didn't bring it when it was needed to bring it, less importantly, we care about the content of the society we're currently in, and the content of the society is before our collapse. I don't know how long we'll live like this, the virus won't disappear. My conclusion is like a layman that the virus won't disappear. We're either waiting for the cure or the vaccine. Until we find the cure, until we find the vaccine, we'll live with that virus. In the meantime, life stopped. Society can't take it. I'm convinced society can't take it. I am convinced that society will have far greater consequences than these measures, which we have consequences for having a health situation now that is relatively acceptable. I expect thousands and thousands of families to become dysfunctional, that we will have new completed, new blocked people, that we will have people without a job. I expect, in general, I am very pessimistic in, in our projections of the future economic situation of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore what I expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not you personally, you are still a medic, it is not so much your job, but the work of all other people involved in politics in the Republic of Croatia should be to find a way to normalise our economic situation. Distance, hygiene, if you need masks required to communicate with people, I think they're one measure that would prevent the spread of the infection as much as possible if we were disciplined. Fully ensure that those risk groups are out of touch with people, homes, hospitals, we know what it is, older people, people with chronic diseases. So, we need those risk groups to make sure they're safe from contacting people who are infected and people who aren't infected because we don't know how dangerous they are and who seem to be uninfected, we know that the virus is transmitted from people who seem to be healthy to other people because they carry the virus inside of them and they're not sick. That's why I am truly deeply concerned about our society. I can live, as far as I'm concerned, half a year and a year under the conditions I live in. I've spent a lot of my life looking out for money, I've got some supplies, I'm not afraid I'm going to get into a crisis, but a lot of our people live from today to tomorrow because it's just life, life has burned them so much, and they just live like that, from today to tomorrow. They don't, they can't live differently than the moon. And these people are in big, big trouble right now. Companies also operate in a way that lives for 2-3 months and no longer have money for the future. I therefore appeal to you, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to a complete political team that manages the Republic of Croatia to find a way to normalise the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, while respecting all the necessary health measures, because if we continue this way for another month, I think we will not continue for the next 10 years. come to the green branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199411	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199412	Thank you very much, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Beroš with fellow colleagues one and colleagues. So, when we discuss this law, then of course I will use part of the debate to make things clear. This is something new, no one expected this to be, no one expected us to be treated in 2020 in a way that was in the 19th century by self-insulation. One girl of four, five years old I saw her somewhere asking what was wrong with her, she said I miss dancing, I miss kindergarten, and I miss grandma and did. So we are such a people, we are the people of the Mediterranean, so it lacks movement, it lacks this social component, and it lacks a family, that broad family and association. We're all out of it. Minister Beroš found himself in one situation so he stepped up to be a minister and everything that happened happened happened and should be commended first and foremost to all health care professionals who have selflessly done everything that has been done further, all those who seek to function as well as we normally do. As normal as we'll be, we'll see, that fellow Cellic might have said a little bit more, but we'll just see that behind all this and how we'll be. It should be commended to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, in the main cases, have stuck to it. Why? Out of the unknown, out of fear and the people who came out gave them assurance so must be, we chose to protect lives. Some other countries have defined themselves, I'm talking primarily about Sweden, all the time I'm watching what's going on there is our 4 million, they're 10 million they're opting for something else. This girl told me, so this little girl what's important to us, and we chose to take care of what's important for us to continue, and really everything that you see and what you see even before something was officially declared in the town of Zagreb was seen less cars, less people, and now after Easter, it's all a little different. Whether it's good or not, I know a little bit about it and there's nothing I can say. But let's go back to this law, so the key question is, why is this law coming to us now? Maybe it was supposed to wait, maybe it was supposed to wait a while longer, and then put all those elements in the law that you see now are your problem and your problem in functioning. But under the applicable laws, the minister has so far made a decision on the establishment of a quarantine on 21 February, on 14 March a decision on a special security measure to isolate persons, an epidemic was declared on 11 March, and before that, an outbreak of infectious diseases was reported as a threat to the entire region of the Republic of Croatia on 4 March. So, based on the applicable laws that are still in force, the minister could do it all together and he did it. We're going to change the law now. Why? I must confess that we are reading the only provision here. 18th that retroactivity of application, but yet out of fear. Fear that someone, read a newspaper about what's going on in Austria, someone comes in and sues, sues for something, and that's actually a defense from it, and that's a clear thing to say. So either the law should have come first to the Parliament at the first moment when the law came and the law that we unanimously accepted without debate on that that the National Staff was making decisions was clear to us that in this situation it was only possible or this law should come then, so all other decisions should be tied to that law or with this law should wait, seeing everything else that you are now because these are some new circumstances. Did any doctor, I see there's a lot of you here, expect us to defend ourselves in 2020 against the virus by self-insulating? Well, no one did, so the way it was done in the 19th century, so no one expected it. Maybe it was supposed to wait, then install everything that was needed. Of course, we're bothered by this retroactive application, we're reading it in a way that we're a little bit afraid of, we might have said a little too much hop, maybe even that headquarters was making some decisions that were speculative to us, so let's put it in and make an emergency change and supplement of the law and install it. In that sense, we have given two amendments from the Voice. So we'll see what happens. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199413	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199414	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed Minister Berosha. I don't suffer so much from the form, the law is now passed when it's passed, we didn't bring it when it was needed to bring it, less importantly, we care about the content of the society we're currently in, and the content of the society is before our collapse. I don't know how long we'll live like this, the virus won't disappear. My conclusion is like a layman that the virus won't disappear. We're either waiting for the cure or the vaccine. Until we find the cure, until we find the vaccine, we'll live with that virus. In the meantime, life stopped. Society can't take it. I'm convinced society can't take it. I am convinced that society will have far greater consequences than these measures, which we have consequences for having a health situation now that is relatively acceptable. I expect thousands and thousands of families to become dysfunctional, that we will have new completed, new blocked people, that we will have people without a job. I expect, in general, I am very pessimistic in, in our projections of the future economic situation of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore what I expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not you personally, you are still a medic, it is not so much your job, but the work of all other people involved in politics in the Republic of Croatia should be to find a way to normalise our economic situation. Distance, hygiene, if you need masks required to communicate with people, I think they're one measure that would prevent the spread of the infection as much as possible if we were disciplined. Fully ensure that those risk groups are out of touch with people, homes, hospitals, we know what it is, older people, people with chronic diseases. So, we need those risk groups to make sure they're safe from contacting people who are infected and people who aren't infected because we don't know how dangerous they are and who seem to be uninfected, we know that the virus is transmitted from people who seem to be healthy to other people because they carry the virus inside of them and they're not sick. That's why I am truly deeply concerned about our society. I can live, as far as I'm concerned, half a year and a year under the conditions I live in. I've spent a lot of my life looking out for money, I've got some supplies, I'm not afraid I'm going to get into a crisis, but a lot of our people live from today to tomorrow because it's just life, life has burned them so much, and they just live like that, from today to tomorrow. They don't, they can't live differently than the moon. And these people are in big, big trouble right now. Companies also operate in a way that lives for 2-3 months and no longer have money for the future. I therefore appeal to you, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to a complete political team that manages the Republic of Croatia to find a way to normalise the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, while respecting all the necessary health measures, because if we continue this way for another month, I think we will not continue for the next 10 years. come to the green branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199415	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Alexic, many countries, have thought alike about your debate, have set out with certain measures that they have quickly found inadequate, some countries have laughed at this coronary virus, some have tried to access the treatment or treatment of coronary viruses with immunity. But for all of them, however, it is common that they had to bring even stronger, more restrictive measures than those brought by the Republic of Croatia very quickly. Therefore, first of all, let us preserve the health of the nation, the health of our citizens and only as a healthy, certain that in a certain way the virus is under control, although we do not know when it will come under control, we can enter into what you say, which is what I agree, which is that as soon as possible, it will go into certain measures that will stimulate the economy and allow people to live from their work, and not from donations, subsidies and support. from the state budget. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199417	Mr. Alexic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199418	Looks like it. But if this condition is another month, two months, I'm telling you that after all, the consequences will be far more difficult than the consequences of being a little more relaxed in economic terms. When I say "relaxirane," I don't think it's necessary to give up the measures that apply, meaning distance, hygiene, if necessary, and the mask must be placed as some kind of mandatory measure, because even though I agree with the fact that the mask only helps to keep the disease from spreading to the healthy one, but we don't really know who of us is the virus transporter, maybe there's someone between us who transmits the virus, and it's healthy. That's why that mask in closed spaces where people work together would be necessary, but then it has to be accessible to everyone and must comply with standards that ensure that the virus is not transmitted. It's urgent to relax the economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199419	Thank you. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, I would venture to say that your debate, I believe Vice President Radin would agree with me, too, was depressed. That's the color of your voice. Of course the situation is serious, I don't want to banalize it. I'll tell you something about the risk groups that are, say, in nursing homes. You can't implement sterile conditions, I don't want to exculpate any possible failure, but an elderly person needs to go to a health care facility and it's also automatically exposed to coronal infection. However, what I would like to praise here, unlike the epidemics that occurred before, Ebola, SARS or HIV here from the beginning, and so the Health Ministry's Crisis Centre has developed a programme to preserve mental health against the negative effects of anxiety and fear, so it takes great care of mental health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199421	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199422	You see, I'm a realist. I'm not a depressed person at all. So there's nothing depressing about what I've said. We are expected by economic depression, and here are the forecasts of the IMF that we will be 9% in the fall, and over 10% in the fall of economic depression, and that is what awaits us. If this situation continues, it will not be 9% but will be over 10%, and it is called economic depression, it is no longer a recession. And in economic depression, the worst possible things happen, the worst scenarios happen here, there's crime that's something that's indescribable and we don't know what's waiting for us. Therefore, it is urgent to relax the economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199423	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199424	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. This law is good, coming a little late on that was also warned by Mr. Bauk because he should have brought it right after the outbreak. But, well, the government was doing other jobs and your headquarters is doing great, I'm surprised you're not a member of that headquarters, we just found out the day before yesterday. Something about this law would say about Articles 16 and 17. It is those provisions that criminally punish one who adheres to this law from 8 to 15,000 kuna, and that a municipal inspector can impose a fine of 5,000 kuna on the spot. I'd increase it, I'd put it all double when I see people acting irresponsiblely, just weird, crazy. Let's say that priest in Split who speaks for the Pope that he is a masseuse and watch out he announces, he says I will hold the Mass and at the Florist, I will keep her on Easter, I will keep her on Monday, he announces that she will break the law. So what kind of punishment can be for him, and for his Pope he says he's a masseuse. And I don't know why his bishop hasn't solved him by now and sent him on a mission to Congo because that's the only place he belongs, nowhere else. He's not the only one. Today I read, the Orthodox worm in Pakrac is also a state service with the believers inside, which they also recorded and published themselves. So wait, if it's said there's no service in the church, there's no mass in the church, and then there's no one for them, then it's punishment and those penalties have to be very, very strict so they don't think about it, because the measures have to be for everyone, and not for everyone but the religious communities. Well, look, if Papa Francis who truly deserves the name and title of Holy Father, if he can in an empty church, what can they do? So what are they better than him now? Now, Minister, you've gained all my sympathy since the first day you started working, I've been following you regularly at all the conferences, but I have one grudge. Hvar, you've allowed the procession in Hvar, and you're Hvar's, and because you're Hvar's, it's just so someone doesn't think you let her do it, you should have banned her. There's no processions, so there's no processions. And we all know there could have been someone out there with no symptoms so we could infect in that procession. So it was the wrong message, the wrong decision because I can rightly ask you, will you allow a first parade in Maxime with a limited number of participants? Because look, it's the same tradition as the first-class parade, so it's the same tradition as this procession in Hvar. If we're going to behave, we have to act consistently, if we ask others to behave consistently, then we have to be hard on ourselves. How long is this gonna take? Nobody knows that. And let me ask you something else, you keep talking at headquarters when journalists ask you that this investigation into this nursing home in Split is ongoing and that the results will be published when the investigation is complete. I wonder who's been conducting this investigation for so long, so pointlessly long, and everyone knows what happened? Ten days of protégé have a fever. The epidemiologist informed the nurse, I don't question the professionality of this man, he's an academic man, he's a historian at the end or an archaeologist or both, it's not important, but I'm interested in whether this man held a phone college with his staff so to tell him, we measured their temperature, so he has five protégés and two protégés have temperature, phone colleagues, he didn't even have to come to the institution and then. So it doesn't matter which profession he is but that he behaves irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely, and because of this irresponsible behavior he should bear sanctions. This is not known how long it will last and it will have material consequences and we don't know what it's like. I'm asking the government, but why doesn't she suspend the Vatican contracts temporarily? A billion goes to church, a billion, and we don't know how long this is gonna take or how much it's gonna cost. 43 million in Mostar, so it's nice to be good and noble, but then we're not noble to our own citizens because we don't know when we don't know what it's going to cost. Our hospitals are living off a donation from China, some are shaken up in Zagreb in an earthquake, so we need to rebuild them so we can't waste money like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199425	Thank you very much. You have three replicas, the first replica has Mr. Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199426	A fellow Stazić, speaking of the Masses, needs to be made clear, so the Masses are not forbidden and every priest is even obliged to hold the Eucharist but without the believers. So this is usually happening in the transmissions online, etc., so there would be no chasing concepts. Misa yes, she is the task of every priest in all Christian churches probably but without believers. However, just so there is no discussion in the interpretation, we will, as a GLAS, propose an amendment that is in Article. 16 adds a list of those who will be prosecuted and with those who organize or invite illicit gatherings, and so are those who invite believers to Mass if it is prevented, and we know that it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199427	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199428	Your amendment is perfectly reasonable and I hope the government will accept it because it will strengthen this law and make it more efficient. And, of course, I misrepresented myself, of course, that Masses are allowed and that priests must do the work they have decided to do, follow their faith. The transfer of these missions can be organised, eventually and organised on HRT, so all the believers who need to participate in the Mass can do so from home, as now many of their jobs are doing from home, protecting others and themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199429	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic. So, you mentioned mass situations in neighbouring Serbia, the main epidemiologist Dr. Predrag he had resigned so he withdrew just for the sake of the coming Easter on the July calendar, here the Croatian Bishop's Conference adopted a provision to celebrate the mass without the people and those priests who commit crimes they should know that they are doing these crimes by jeopardising the lives of others. So it's not them in the first place, it's those people who come to mass where they invite them. But these are really rare examples, I don't know if they can be counted on the fingers of this today in Pakrac to the situation that is happening in Split. I also think they should be sanctioned. You also mentioned Mostar and 43 million kunas, so it is a constitutional obligation to care for the Croats in BiH, but imagine what would happen if this pressure went towards Split so that we also burden the Croatian health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199431	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199432	Yeah, they call, they're irresponsible, they're irresponsible. Those who come to their calls are even more irresponsible, and not only are they irresponsible but they are aggressive, but then they still attack the journalist and press her hand against the church door. It's Christian behavior for them, it's Christians, they're a role model for others. It's a shame, a shame unseen. Look, the hospital in Mostar is renovated or newly built, beautiful-looking, beautifully equipped. I don't mind helping the Croats in BiH, but was it now necessary there in that hospital now that our hospitals are shaken when we don't know, we're doing a Polish hospital, the military is building a Polish hospital, and it's an honor. But why now, so let's postpone it for a year if there's no direct need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199433	And Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199434	It was clear from the experience of the countries in the area that the outbreak of the virus into nursing homes has the highest mortality, it is clear from our example that the Ministry of Social Care was not ready to do what was to be done because the measures taken only by the fact that the bans on visits were obviously not enough, and Minister Bedekovic is always saying that she knew nothing, that she knew nothing about what she was saying in favor of everything she had left to the Ministry of Health, and that she had to organise things the way she is, and it is only now seen because now, according to the new employees of the homes for older and powerless, they are working with greater attention with the users. And what can be seen from this example, that neither Minister Beros nor Minister Bozinovic are the real HDZ, but the real HDZ are Skaričić and Bedekovic, who showed how the party's card is being caught in homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199435	Time. Mr. Stazic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199436	Don't talk like that to her colleague Mrssic about these two fine ministers, then they'll be replaced. They are HDZ's and just stay where they are because it's pretty dangerous what you've just done. Yeah, look, the virus's going to enter the nursing homes, and look, it's gone into other countries, so don't enter the virus alone, walk in, ban visits. But the nurses are coming, the staff is coming, and what can't the nursing home do without the staff. So it happens, unfortunately it happens. About the capacities of Minister Bedeković we had opportunities to witness when she was at headquarters and on several TV shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199437	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Ranko Ostojić who will have his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199438	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I already said at first, and that is that question of legality etc. there would not be this law if it were not necessary to cover certain solutions which have been made exactly contrary to the legal rules. I think that your role, of course, is very ungrateful, that you must actually come here and defend those who, perhaps before you, should sit here and explain why they didn't do it because as far as I can remember, which was settled in December of last year, the headquarters and the regulations by which the Civil Protection Headquarters was formed after that were formed and the Civil Protection Headquarters was formed in which even though you were a minister, you were not. It's, like, a procedural failure. Someone's going to say what you're wooding around these procedures now, and so on, that's exactly the problem. The problem is that democracy makes the procedure, as you ask citizens to follow the procedures, even if they are recommendations, guidance, and even when they are not based on the law, then it is time for simple things to be brought in the way that is prescribed in the democratic state. That's why I said it wasn't in the interest of everyone like you at the beginning and I also warned in previous discussions when we brought them to question the victims of this corona virus among other things is democracy. I think that avoiding the declaration of disaster that was a solution could have been solved through disaster, the thing could have been arranged long ago, and it was actually impossible to bring in the legal way those measures needed. Today, when we come to a situation that needs to convalidate retroactively some things, I can understand that it was urgent, etc., but this is in line with statements and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who said yesterday that he had already managed the crisis as EU chairman in early January. So I am surprised today by the situation where the headquarters is forming on 20 February 2020, not so long ago, the crisis has already begun. Therefore, I am interested in understanding in this rule of law why we are obliged to talk about it in the House and why we are obliged to respect the procedure precisely for the reasons that the only ones who have the right to pass laws and the least right to forget these laws are parliamentary deputies. I'll also tell you that I understand that this is a new thing, but it's neatly described in article. No. 2. If you do not recognise this virus in this, the outbreak of infectious disease is considered to be an increase in disease from an infectious disease unusual by the number of cases, in times of death, etc. and territory. Also in art. 3. says that you as a minister can go to the government as you did to propose to enter. Therefore, this justification that we bring for this reason absolutely does not stand. There was no reason for that. The government because in the beginning... it was done by this law. What's very important to me in this whole story, which is that, fortunately, the State Inspectorate is no longer involved in this. I can see that neither the state inspector is on these headquarters nor on the press because first of all we should talk about what the preventive activities have been to prevent this from happening because we know for a long time if Prime Minister Plenkovic knows then you probably know that certain things have happened in China, that there is a need to react to that. What I objected to about isolation is clear to me that people who are found to be sick or suspected of being infected are necessarily isolated, treated in medical institutions if they have secured conditions for isolation and treatment of infectious diseases. There is a possibility of being treated at home, but according to the conditions and according to the assessment of a doctor of family medicine, or in a health care facility, if that is the case. So, all of this we've had so far as it were. 47.I think the reason why we have all this together today is to save ourselves from events that could follow behind all of this, which is that illegal behavior has its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199439	Thank you very much. Mr. Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199440	Your colleague Ostojić made this summarum excellently, so on the one hand it is not clear under 1, why is it that if the headquarters was appointed 50 days ago in the meantime even the Ministry of Health has twice appointed its representative the minister was not appointed to headquarters, why did it bother someone? And secondly, why didn't the minister make official and sign those decisions without any fear of any retroactions or any claims for compensation? So he could have done it legally, but he didn't. The question is, why? It doesn't make any sense what you say in this situation when it's known to reduce or suspend some human rights, you have to walk on the eggs, and that means you have to respect the procedure and leave everything completely clear and transparent so that no one can question real intentions. If that's how it is, then why don't you do it like that? Why are you opening space for negative connotations and comments?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199441	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199442	A colleague, Beus Richembergh, is true that, in fact, in this procedure and everything else could have been resolved. But I won't speculate. This is a crisis situation, why someone didn't believe that Minister Willy Beros was a member of the headquarters and that he was formalised or that Mrs. Alemka Markotic was in it I really couldn't speculate, but those who swear to leave the matter to the profession are then obliged to legalize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199443	Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague I will remain when I spoke about this law myself earlier and when I said that we gave the amendments and additions to the Civil Protection System Act to the general authority of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to me and you said that only those who are in accordance with the law. And I will now tell you what it says that are in accordance with the law, so let the public assess whether the measures that the headquarters has brought are in accordance with the law or not. Therefore, in the event of the occurrence of specific circumstances involving events or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which threatens the life and health of citizens, be careful of life and health, the property of greater value significantly disrupts the environment, economic activity or causes significant economic damage to the Civil Protection Staff makes decisions and instructions that carry out the headquarters at lower levels. Therefore, whether the measures adopted by the headquarters are in accordance with this law or not some public assessment and other agents, you said I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199445	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199446	I'm surprised to you that next to a lex specialist who writes about who implements the... epidemic measures, who sets up quarantine, who prohibits travel to countries, who prohibits movement, who prohibits driving and also issues a solution to every ban on gathering, etc. it writes to you in an article. The 69th existing law, which is ultimately quite clear, defines who is right here, let the public see. As far as headquarters is concerned, headquarters is not a legislative body, headquarters is not a body that can take measures outside the law and I can prove them among other things which measures have been adopted without having a legal foothold. And amongst other things, you show any of their solutions that he writes based on which law the articles have passed. I can give them to you, I have them all here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199447	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199448	When you refer to the law and here you say that the headquarters should not be above the law nor that the legislative body is not there you are right, but see how we have in Croatia practically double standards today. So in recent days, this idea has been born, and it has come to life that some cities and municipalities are building joint headquarters at the level of former municipalities to make it easier for people to move. And here from my neighborhood, the city of Rijeka signed the agreement with one part of neighbouring towns and municipalities and they agreed to have a joint headquarters and then what happens after two days says no, you can't, it has to be decided by the city council and municipal councils. And only when the city council and municipal councils make decisions will those agreements be worth it. And how at the state level should the Parliament not make decisions? Why shouldn't that be the same thing? So at the local level, the city council and the municipal council must make a decision and I support it because it is in accordance with the law, but I also believe that at the state level it is Parliament that has to make a decision, not some group that is called headquarters, in which those who should be not, and that is you ministers and your colleague, but I will discuss it in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199449	Mr. Ostojic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199450	Your colleague is a small line of resistance. When you're afraid to make decisions, when you're just declaratively determined then of course let it be negotiated by local administrations and self-government, and I think it's very simple. As all other decisions were made, too many areas could have been resolved long ago and not led to this absurdity in which we now have 900,000 passes. Shame on anyone in Croatia who doesn't have a pass. It is not clear to me what the purpose of such measures is. Supposedly we have to stay home, and 900,000 people, so every one who is able to actually move moves around Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199451	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasa Djujic has a debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199452	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm gonna talk about two things today. The first thing is when we talk about the measures we are implementing, I am the one who always advocates rigorous measures and for stricter measures even, perhaps even more stringent than those we are carrying out today in Croatia because I think that maybe a month better squeezed it completely and then have some kind of peace than this relaxation and laxation. And I also want to look at one of the measures we are implementing in this high house, or in the Croatian Parliament at the beginning. So during the debate, we conduct a measure that no more than 28 MPs should be in the Chamber because it is the only condition that we can have sufficient distance between ourselves and that we do not endanger each other and therefore justify it with health reasons. Now that we have one measure to get to that number, so we have 14 club representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so we said 28 representatives can sit in the hall until we have some new rules. And you see, today we're in the hall here, at this point maybe a dozen. But let's just say my colleagues from the SDP standing at the door can't get in the door. So those of us out front can't come in and argue because they're said to be two-by-four representatives per club. Now, look, you tell me, Minister, would there be a major threat here, if there were two other SDP colleagues and two bridge colleagues sitting here right now? Would it exist? It wouldn't exist. I don't think so. So what's that measure, and what's it doing here? That's where the opposition wants to choke and reduce our maneuver and ability to speak, and that's what HDZ is doing. On the other hand, since the beginning of this crisis, the entire opposition has been constructive, no one can challenge us. We've supported almost all the laws, and I believe we'll support this package this week as well. But you can't ask us to keep our mouths shut and not speak, and now we shouldn't say a word of criticism. Because that's our job here, to warn about things we don't think are good and that should be better, but you can't refuse opposition proposals. We don't participate in consultations at all or who's in opposition to what he's asking, and the biggest absurd is what I'm saying today, let's say a bunch of MPs are walking around the halls and that he's been in the building all day and I can't come up to the line by 4:00 this afternoon because I don't know, someone here made past the Rules of Procedure and beyond any other rules of some kind of barrier. It's the same thing I'm saying, what I just said to my colleague Ostojić in the replica, so at the local level, local headquarters, when the cities and municipalities agreed to build joint headquarters. I am speaking again on the example of the city of Rijeka, which with neighbouring cities and municipalities has agreed to have a joint headquarters and then to abolish each other's movements. No, says the government you have to make city and municipal council decisions. And I support 300%, but if the city or municipality has to make an agreement that, in the power of its mayor, it can sign something, then also Prime Minister Plenkovic, and especially not some headquarters led by Minister Bozinovic, cannot make any decisions without this High House, or the Croatian Parliament, which is the only law in this country. And that's what we from the opposition have to talk about, and let's say I belong to those MPs who'll talk about it, even if tomorrow and the media attack me that it's not right and we can't talk about it. For example, last Tuesday we were in Westin, there were 130 of us in the House of Representatives plus 50 professional services, so 150 people in one hall, and today in the Croatian Parliament here we can't be more than 28, and 10 of us are inside. What's that logic, who's crazy? I'm asking, and where's it going? It has nothing to do with anything, it's the only attempt to silence us. On the other hand, it's incredible for me to be here until the other day until I found out that you're not a member of headquarters at all. You weren't a member of headquarters at all. Here's what we're doing today. We're making this law that we're fixing. Perhaps there is this tape of suspicion, that you are not a member of the headquarters because it may not have been done for you but for your predecessor, a colleague of Mr Kujundzic, who is from around the game. I'll say fortunately for Croatia that it's from around here and that you're here. Perhaps Prime Minister Plenkovic, knowing Mr. Kujundzic's capacity, worked so God forbid he's at headquarters, so that's why we have today's health office without a health minister who's actually wearing this whole situation. But here it is, these are some things that we keep making some decisions and this law and last week we had some laws to legalize something existing. And I think if we were to sit down and the opposition and rule especially here where we, like the opposition, were constructive from the very beginning and talk, I keep saying, two heads are smarter than one. Well, we don't have all the stupid suggestions either, so I guess we'd say something smart, maybe we wouldn't be able to come up with these situations that we're coming up with and that we have to fix something all the time. Here's my time, but I have so much to say, and I haven't had a chance all day, even though I've been in the building all day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199453	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll be able to speak more. And those who walk outside can follow over the TV, as they come inside talking. I can replicate three times. I don't think there's anything denied except sitting in the Parliament and there's better to be less of us in the Parliament. Anyway, there's even less of us in regular time, right, you know that better than I do. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199454	Comrade Djujic, in your presentation, you said among other things that in these times everyone should do their job and in these times parliamentary representatives should do their job, and our job is to speak. Where we should praise, we will commend, where we think differently, we should say that we think differently. So, this amendment and the addition of the law, it opens up the next problem, the minister made a series of decisions in accordance with a law that is still in force, i.e. a law that is changing and supplementing. Or those decisions were wrong when we now have to iron it all out by law or there's actually only one topic that wasn't and where there's doubt, and these are the decisions of headquarters. Of course I do, too, because Minister Beros, therefore the minister is not a member of the headquarters, because this headquarters is exclusively related to what Minister Berosa's jurisdiction is, therefore something is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199455	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199456	So that's what we've been saying all this time. It's illogical for me, too, but if we had the opportunity to make decisions together and talk together in the preparation of everything and power and opposition, we might be able to handle things more easily. I'm in favor of it again, I'm going to say one more time, perhaps for stricter measures than those of you ministers. Maybe. Whether it's popular for people or not, it's absurd for me to have almost a million passes today. Then why are they blocking these, then they get killed there, we're talking to a miracle we caught 30 of them today without passes, they tried the pass. Well, they're fools if 30 aren't the only ones in the country, and a million people have that plus service, so let's get it over with. Then we're talking about this region now, the cities and the municipalities are going to cut it down. On the other hand, they don't give, they say I won't come, they'll come walking on my shore, then they won't give it to this guy from Rijeka. And we have a million people moving plus Zagreb as a special area where 800,000 people have free movement on a small surface. So we need to talk about it, so maybe we can come up with some more serious things in these 15, 20 days or a month or so already.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199457	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199458	Dear colleague Djujic, I agree. This should be publicly said whether this monster is and whether only the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for solving it or whether it is a problem for all of us and the positions and oppositions and all of those who, let's say and their different views can contribute to the resolution of the situation. I have to say, we're probably going to question ourselves now and look for the culprits for this situation, especially in connection with the penetration of the coronary virus into homes for older and powerless persons. However, the problem is to determine why our system does not work. It's a key problem that we need to meet, and that's all we can do together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199459	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199460	Well, I agree with you, pal. I don't think this is the time to look for the guilty and that anyone at this point is looking for the guilty because it could endanger all of us, but the time will come when, I hope, not because you would want it, but that means that then this crisis will pass. So I believe that this will end as soon as possible, but then we will have to account for all Croatian citizens who did what they did and whether it was justified, whether it was in accordance with the law and what consequences we were doing. And then let's all go together at this point and I'll go that way so that later the consequences will be as soon as possible and there won't be any of those problems, and that's all we can do if we talk about it. But we can't talk in a way that someone from the opposition does something and objects and says you're not doing this well, so then I don't know right away jump out of the ruling one, here's counterpart Bačić right now don't talk, colleague Reiner says don't politicize, Sanader attacks Bernardic there as if he's the biggest problem in this country, etc. So it takes two people to talk, but I'm not the only one who's right, and I don't want to listen to anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199461	Thank you. I've made one mistake before, we've had uneven data. Mr. Richembergh has the right to replicate again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, at one point you speculated on why decisions were not made or why the existing model was not used. Has it occurred to you that Minister Beroš is professional enough and smart enough not to rush into things because, as we know, he has top political legitimacy because he has been approved by HS in all his duties, but has very thin party legitimacy because he knows very well in the shark tank and is moving and that what is currently very popular for a few days might be a weight around his neck. That's why it may be better, however, from that perspective to go with this regulation to retroactively cover all things, not to have his signature under every decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199463	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199464	All right. Look, politics is politics, and waist is waist. Let's say, I spoke in one debate, so I didn't pay attention, so when we were in the building of the INA, right on Minister Beros, I didn't criticise you, but let's say I was independent of the gravity of the situation, at that point it was abnormal, and I said in that building INA that children at school were drawing a superhero Bozinovic who wore a second uniform every week here, while fellow Ostojić here in the assembly said why the minister was parading around in uniforms, until then Minister Bozinović was in the cabinet meeting in uniform, on the press in uniform, in one, and in the other, and the markings, and so on. Let's just say, I've never seen Minister Beros, I don't know, in the doctor's corner of the press, even though, say, he can wear it because he's a doctor and by the laws of this country, it's his, he has the right to wear it, and the police minister has no right to wear police uniforms. But let's say these are some things that showed some kind of responsibility or some kind of, let's say responsibility. as you said and understood politics, moment and impression. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199465	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199466	Comrade Djujic, it is important that we have a more successful fight against this virus, that we have as few infected as possible and that we have as little economic damage as possible. And in this context, we of the opposition have also proposed a series of measures, amendments and nothing has been accepted, and it is constantly calling for some consensus and joint action. We have also shown this one responsibility in the vote, and we expect that, by ruling the same thing, both for me and for us in the HSS, the minister is successful and has good results, but obviously it bothers someone, so he wants to put them aside with this law and let the government make political decisions and it is a political decision. But when, say, the commissioners pass through, while there were no e-passes for 100 required passes, about 60-65% were granted. Now the percentage is over 90% and the meaninglessness is such passes and now that the commissioners agree by agreement that they want a joint headquarters to avoid that Mata from Gundijans must ić by pass both in Babin Gred and in Slavonski Šamac and in Sikirivac Because there's a country there then by ruling it say, if it can't, there's no HDZ, [[Intruder: Thank you]] but the council of the congregation makes a decision, so these are the municipalities. [[Agreement: Thank you Mr. Vlaović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199467	Thank you. Mr. Djujic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199468	I say, I don't mind city councils making decisions if it's in accordance with the law. Which I believe the Assembly should bring restrictions on certain human rights to a two-thirds majority, as prescribed in the Constitution, and that is to say our views. Second of all, you told your colleague that the opposition gave a whole series of measures and suggestions. Yeah, and they wouldn't have given them if someone from the ruling room had sat down with us and said, "Let's go talk, give us some suggestions, so we'll talk about it." Pro form was called by Prime Minister Plenkovic at the beginning of this crisis by club representatives and later finished. The second package of measures represents the coalition partners of the code that concerns only them, not all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then we get it into the assembly and we have to bring it to God quickly and not to God to ask a question. Whoever questions any decision in the Republic of Croatia today is subject to criticism and there are no exceptions. Here, and the President of the Republic attacked the media the other day through the blows because he dared to ask certain questions and give certain guidelines, then it was said not the time to do so, do not speak, tell Plenkovic in 4 eyes it is not so done. Rafal strokes from the media, that's not good, that's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199469	It's not right that I let you talk 11 seconds more. Mr. Zekanovic is on his way now. And I'm sorry, Mattel, I'm sorry. Mr. Mateo's up. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it would be very bad, it wouldn't be good if the citizens of this debate of ours, this not only today's debate was perceived in the way the opposition considers that all decisions made by the government, it made in advance wanting to suspend democracy. Equally, it would not be good if, if the opposition's wish, insisting on the opposition to conduct democratic procedures, the government presented itself as an unnecessary search for egg hair as a focus on something irrelevant or detachment in this situation. I'm convinced, and I don't believe that it's some kind of political pathetic or romantic, I really believe that we all have the same goal, that our goal, therefore, is to make those decisions that we must make quickly, that we must make in time, that they are in line with the law, with democratic procedures, and that the ultimate goal of these decisions is to prevent infection. It's seemingly simple, and that's what we have to deal with, that's what we have to deal with. These days, more than usual, citizens ask us questions and expect answers to these questions. But sometimes citizens overestimate our opportunities and overestimate our, our influence on certain processes in this society. However, out of the dozens of questions that citizens will be asking, I will focus on, on, on, on, on, on, and these are day-to-day migrants, or our workers working in neighbouring, above all, EU Member States, or specifically in Slovenia. In the middle of last month, at the recommendation of the Ministry of Health, the government made a decision, a list of countries in which it could not be made, or with the exception of day-to-day migrants or workers who, under certain conditions, could travel to work or work, and then to isolation. This can be said from Zagorje to Brežice, can be from Krapina in Ljubljana, but can't be said from the southwestern part of the Karlovo County in Metlik, Novo Mesto, in Črnomelj, because, therefore, they are like Lombardia, like Wuhan, the Bela province and the Dolenjska province in Slovenia, which the ministry perceives still, therefore, as red areas, the corners of the coronary virus in the neighbouring country. My question, therefore, is not that I am an expert or, or that I fully understand the situation in which we are, but that the ministry is checking again, therefore the epidemiological situation in Slovenia itself, whether this decision is still necessary because it is 1000 people, so it is a border area, it is about people living in a region that is concerned by the particular state itself, those 1,000 fates, 1000 salaries. I know it is, and that's how I assure people that sometimes it's better to run out of pay than without a lung, but this one sounds rough, but it also sounds rough when at the end of the month you don't have credit, you don't have what you normally had. So, in the end, I really think we're going to have to balance between those decisions that will sometimes be liberal, sometimes you'll find this very restrictive. However, there is, therefore, a matter of policy and profession agreement. In the end, it always decides politics, but right on recommendation, on the recommendation of the profession. Therefore, it is my question to you, therefore, whether there is a recommendation that, finally, day-to-day migrants from the southwestern part of Karlovac County can travel to the Dolenjska or the White Region and that in due course, I know that you, yes, are obsessed with questions about possible liberalisation of measures through these days and that this is not a new issue for you, but therefore, I am asking on behalf of those people who need this and who are vital to this life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199471	Thank you, too. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199472	Comrade Mateo, you said this, you said now an example of a problem which, perhaps beneath some public radar, let's put it this way, so these daily migrations, there's a lot of such things, a lot, a lot of things happening in the Republic of Croatia. Here I will say that there is little in the media to how much, and I will praise that, whether the Government is directly, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how much they are working to extract Croatian citizens from EU countries and other countries that are stuck in these areas. Here and I personally participated in, in, in, to help say a few of our citizens whom the government helped to get out of Tyrol and return, to return to the Republic of Croatia, but let's just say there's no media. No, because maybe the media don't know it, but that's why I'm saying it's important that we can discuss it in this high house, we can talk because then you hear things like you said with an example of those everyday migrants, which is, which is, which is, which is, which is more of the kind of things that are good and that are bad, but we need to have a place to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199473	Mr. Mateo, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199474	Thank you. I don't know how you do, but I really don't expect these measures to be perfect and everything to flow perfectly. And I'm personally satisfied with the way this system works with all these things that happen, like my colleagues said before, so this nonsensus about it, so that, that one municipality of 15 square kilometers can't do this, needs a pass to go to an ATM or somewhere else, so people, citizens, don't have to be prisoners of our bad decisions or our bad laws, in this case the Law of Local, about local this self-government. But once again, I'm convinced that we're all in this together because here we're not just representing our parties, so here we are actually a state. When people look at our MPs, they look at the state and it's up to us to represent that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199475	I'm taking the opportunity to say that in these agglomerations then there'd be a situation if there were a lot less pass, too, right, not a million, maybe there would be three times less, right? Mr. Hrelja will answer you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199476	Dear, esteemed fellow Mateolian, I do not fully agree with you in the part where you said that the final decision always makes politics. Policy operationalises a certain agreement, the profession must make decisions and in this case the profession is not only a health profession, but also social workers and businessmen and sociologists and psychologists and all professional people from institutions not only by personal calling but who represent some institutions must have a share in solving, solving this problem. There are countries where teams are led by experts and recognised by experts, not exclusively politicians. So I think in this case too, we have to look up to others regardless of what we're standing for more favorably as to the defense against the coronary virus, but I think in the long run, only teamly and professionally defend ourselves against this monster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199477	Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199478	Thank you. When I was talking about making decisions, I was thinking about laws, and politics is making laws, politics ultimately makes decisions, in which amount, in which this critical mass now depends on the quality of this law on the proposal of the profession. But yes, in the end of politics, we are the ones who make the laws and the responsibility is on us. Likewise, if it is our responsibility to listen to the profession and how much will this profession be involved in the quality of these laws, the decisions that we make? So that's why we're talking about it now, and that's why this and the ministers, the health ministers aren't this, they're not electrical engineers, they're these, they're doctors, they're doctors. So also this one, let's take Sweden, this famous example of Sweden, that's ultimately policy decisions, but again based on the recommendations of the profession. So they accepted another way of acting, but again the decision was made by politics. So, the responsibility is ultimately in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199479	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199480	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. So, I've got more or less answers to all the questions, but here I am until the end of the debate to repeat once again what is crucial to what we have observed. In fact, the key line was from the end of our discussion, or when you answered me that question that bothers not only me but also most people in the Republic of Croatia, no colleagues noticed it, and it's about the fact that most people, which you said, are dying with the coronary virus, and not from the coronary virus, or that people are mostly chronic patients, and that simply after death because of chronic disease, are determined to be infected with the coronary virus, correct me freely if that's not the case, but that's how I'm about to figure out, meaning that the primary cause of death is not the coronary virus, okay, that's what we agree, and that's what we need to do, you have to say it in the cameras tomorrow, and I don't know how many people saw this debate today that there are a little people here, but you're still letting it go because there's a big fear in the Republic of Croatia. I know that sometimes fear is the best way to get people in line, but today that fear in Croats and Croats is still a little excessive and I think people need a little encouragement and concrete and accurate information, and that's what you said. Here you would also mention a few more information that people might still be a little more in the mood to see that it is not the end of the world that we are going to solve this crisis, and that is what she said, here I am reading on the portals, said your colleague, a colleague, Markotic, that she was actually on respirators in some Zagreb clinics before 2.g. of the flu there were many more people than there are today. That should be said for people to be a little quieter, not to create this one pressure that currently exists. So that's what your colleague said and that's what needs to be said. As far as measures are concerned, I'm glad you agreed with me that it's a measure of fishing, sports fishing, it doesn't matter, here I'm going to connect another measure, individual hunting, too, it's a similar measure where a man can walk through the woods when he's with a rifle then he's in violation, and that should change, I'm not a personal hunter, but here I know that this recreation means a lot to hunters. And here, as far as this measure is concerned, one is actually a great illogicality. For example. you have in my Sibenik-Knin County you have municipalities that have only a few hundred inhabitants, the municipalities of Biscopia, Ervenik, the citizens, I think there are 150 residents, perhaps less, perhaps less. If we take these measures of the Civil Protection Staff, then these residents can't move anywhere except in that municipality, they can get a pass, it all stands, but if we take it to the Correspondence of Civilians or Ervenik or I don't know the Bishop, with the City of Zagreb, then we have one huge disproportionate. So, the City of Zagreb that has 800,000 inhabitants is one unit of local self-government at the same time and we have small, small municipalities here, so the sooner we should regulate and cut and say that maybe those municipalities that we had before in Yugoslavia, and some communities, I don't think that it was a bad model, I, I think that Countys, that the counties have their own sense, but that the art of today's county is not good, but that it can connect the municipalities that were once not bad and there were much less, today we have 555 units of local self-government, 555 it's really what the municipalities, which is really, really, really too much. Furthermore, I see that it is, for example. The Czech Republic has given a rather concrete plan to cancel these measures and would like us to hear it. Come on, come on, the deadlines are going to change, people need it, people need to know the school will start in 15.5., it doesn't matter if it's 1.6, but if people have a little plan that's easier to endure. Here, I know you're thinking about it, and here I encourage you all to go out with these concrete things and other countries have come out, so yes, I'm sure we can go to the Republic. In the end, here's another finding, we're demographically devastated as a state, and it was actually one of our lucks in the accident that we're a rarely populated country, so we've been through this crisis a little bit easier. Congratulations today to you as one of the leaders of the headquarters on these brilliant results, today only 37 new people, I hope tomorrow will be even less. And as for the SDP attack, don't worry about it, it's all your fake attacks and they're your potential coalition partner tomorrow, so you don't have to worry about these attacks. It's just a performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199481	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic is on his way now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199482	Thank you very much, Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I was already talking about this law on several occasions today. What I want to point out now again is that exactly the overall definition of health is also an indication of the thinking and analysis of all decisions so far, but of course future strategies and plans in the fight for health at the time of the crown epidemic. So I repeat, health is not only the absence of a disease of weakness but the state of full physical mental and social well-being where every element of this definition if we want to be healthy is mandatory. Of course, our goal is not only to add years to life but also to life for years, and we must not allow it to lead to another at the time of suppressing one pandemic. For example. that due to the reduction in diagnostics and early therapy that really threatens the number of calls I received, the number of fatalities in cancer patients are arousing. In his last week's review, journalist Damir Petrovic pessimistically quotes on the Greeks and academics or why we no longer have salvation, and continues, the virus and priests, priests and police, police and journalists, priests and journalists, the virus and HDZ, the ticks and manners, hooligans and common sense, Easter and sorrow, whichever couple we choose will not be wrong at least there is only one important conclusion. We believed that the crisis with the crown would make us better people, more solidarity, more communicable, more humble, more reasonable and compassionate. Even at first, it seemed so that this week it would collapse all over again, obviously there is no help for us to conclude a journalist. And it's really a question of all the questions because the crown will pass. Are we going to get out of this crisis as a better society? Have we learned any new lessons or really, as the journalist Petranovic asks, has no help? I wonder too. If they see and understand all of our citizens or at least most of them attack journalists, black uniforms with a cowardly hidden face with the threat of Ustasha shouting represent an attack on the entire society and that turning their heads and silence is out of the question. Do we all agree that the disturbed outbursts of priests cannot defend any Canon law, and that neither the church nor the church customs, no matter how old they may be above the laws, measures and other citizens, must be equal? Do we all or at least most of the parties come from that the fact that in the Split House of Elders and Infirmities in Vukovar Street has led to the spread of the coronary virus that this case has once again confirmed all the absurdity of entanglement on the party's key whether it is a HDZ member, SDP, MOST, sovereign or some fifth party? Can the coronary virus finally waver against the opponents of the vaccine and show the coronary virus to hesitate against the vaccine and show everyone that the vaccine is one of the greatest medical achievements in history that we live longer and better thanks to? Are we all or at least most aware that for our personal health, the health of our loved ones, we ourselves bear responsibility? How can anyone even think to violate self-insulation? Human rights and freedom are always in first place, but that means having a responsibility. Here is European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Economy Thierry Breton last week said forced monitoring measures aimed at tracking the infected coronary virus in the EU are out of the question. There's a lot of talk about the Swedish model, and I'm not going to talk about epidemiological measures right now, but what's the Swedish model on? He's resting on trust. The state trusts its citizens, and citizens trust their own state. No one trusts anyone in Croatia. How to achieve the goal of trust in Croatia to trust citizens in their own country, that the state trusts its citizens? Educational education. Education is the key to that goal of trust. Both health education, education and more health care and civic education, education for civil society and democracy. The main outcome and health and civic education are competences, competences of health culture, health literacy, civil competences that involve civic knowledge and understanding, civic skills and skills, and of course civic values and attitudes in which citizens know they have rights, but they also know that they have responsibilities. Do we all see that these are competences that are crucial in the fight for health and against every disease. I'm optimistic that we'll come out better and more ready for some new challenges. At the very end, I would ask the minister, given that I have been asked by the masters of medical laboratory diagnostics who, together with others, are involved in the fight against the coronary virus to make this one of the reasons why they need to solve their problem and allow them to work in accordance with their competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199483	Thank you, too. Mr. Hrelja has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199484	Dear colleague Jovanovic. So you've highlighted the thesis or the desire to come out of this as a better, better quality, fairer society, I highly doubt that because the first one to give a message that we're going in that direction is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After such an angry response from Mostar Hospital that 43 million kunas are not some money from a key man, the government should recall that decision right now because there is where to use that money. And to be clear, there is no need to call on the Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a source of the rights of Croatian citizens, and they are a priority at the moment in the destroyed Zagreb and the earthquake of destroyed hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199485	Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199486	Yes, colleague Hrelja, I agree that responsibility is the most important. I have nothing against money given to the Mostar Hospital if it will be spent to improve the health care of the citizens who are gravitating that hospital will reduce the pressure on the hospital in Split and therefore I hope that the minister will also ask that every item that has been spent on that money be shown to know that they have been spent on what they were intended for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199487	Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199488	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic. In your quote, you pointed out one important thing, which is trust on the example of Sweden, and I think if nothing else this crisis taught us anything else that people have slowly started to trust some institutions. Is this now the Civilian Headquarters is a profession, thank God that it is so that not politicians, although we should surely strive to justify citizens' trust. I don't know, and I'd like to ask you your opinion, do you think that citizens' trust comes when politicians and mayors come out yesterday in some uniforms and you're beautiful names and functions in those same uniforms? Are these uniforms prescribed, do they have to be, does it pour additional trust in citizens? I mean, it can be interpreted as such that these times look for different and some uniform codes, but I think it's more important than anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199489	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199490	You asked your colleague a good question. It seems that some think that when they put on a uniform and put a hat on their heads to become smarter and more powerful, therefore it shows a lot that trust is not built by uniform, it is not built by force but is built by quality work as it does in its work by Mr. Minister Beroš with his closest associates and in fact it is the way to regain trust so that the profession really comes first. And these local powers who put on uniforms put their hats on and stood at the head of Civil Protection are all the opposite of restoring trust. And I hope that, after the end of this crisis and the Civil Protection System, we will revise and at the head of the Civil Protection System, we will be experts, not politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199491	Mr. Klisovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199492	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic. I would like to point out once again exactly what you have stated is the importance of health and civic education, among other things, for the health of our nation. If today is justified by an epidemiological strategy that is not possible because our citizens are not conscious enough, they do not listen as they do in Scandinavia, then we wonder where are the roots of such inconsciousness, where are the roots of such disobedience to the ruling or measures that are being taken to protect the health of the nation? Well, right in health and civic education. So who's to blame why was there so much resistance when we were trying to bring him in? Why did he demonize himself? Now the checkouts are coming right up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199493	Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199494	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. So without any dilemma about Croatia's future, if we want to be healthier society, education for health, education and education for civil society and democracy are key because in this way the young will adopt knowledge, master skills, get competences from which valuable courts will come to realize that the vaccine is something that provides us with health, longer life, which will realize that civic responsibility means being an active, not passive citizen, that it means to go to elections, choose those who are the best, and not stay at home and complain about what happens in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199495	And now Mr. Klisovic will have his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199496	Thank you very much, Vice President. So today we are discussing a defacto on the form or amendments to the laws that we want to legalise certain measures that the Civil Protection Staff has taken over the past period. So we are not talking about the content of the epidemiological measures needed to protect the health of our citizens. We will discuss this on another occasion even though there would be much to notice. Among other things, is the best strategy that we have gone along with most of the countries in our environment, and even the country that went by logic let's protect the healthy from the sick, let's put the sick into self-insulation or quarantine to protect the healthy. Another logic is a little different today, and it's kind of getting more and more to the surface, and let's protect the elderly, let's protect the vulnerable groups, or immunocompromised persons from everyone else, and thus try to create one immunity in society and thus try to protect those who are most sensitive. But today we can't still talk about it, there's not enough data, when we're analytically able to do some maybe three to six months of quality analysis, we'll know what was the best tactics, and I believe after that we'll be in similar situations and act accordingly. I must admit that, here is Minister Beros who sits here and some other members of the government responded very quickly at first to the proposals of the opposition, thought about them even though they were acceptable, quality, if they were evaluated by them, they accepted them. I must say that I made such a proposal and the minister accepted it immediately after the course of reflection and I must say the next day was already in realisation, which is actually a great way to show how the opposition can also contribute to the quality management of this crisis. But as the crisis moved on, as time went on, there was less and less hearing in the government about opposition proposals. So when the SDP came up with 3 packages of its own measures instead of thinking with them sobriety about how it started at the beginning of the crisis, people began to condemn themselves through the media, to demonize where they even had the right to disturb peace, where they even had the right to suggest or criticize what the government is currently doing on these issues. I think it's absolutely wrong, and the moment we stepped away from this one joint thinking, which is best for crisis management, we got into an even deeper crisis whose consequences we're sure to feel when the health crisis stops. And why this debate has even taken place today and this need to change the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Didn't the government know that the minister who is a member of the government had the authority to take measures that the Civil Protection Staff could not bring? Is this about government negligence? Is this about government incompetence? Or is it because of disrespect for our own legal order, which we had the opportunity to see and according to the relationship, according to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests by this government? But whatever it is, it's not good. And it further points out that the home security system is not and cannot rest on one law only, in the Homeland Security Act. It is much wider than that and needs to be imported completely by all members of the public government to function on the well-being of our citizens. This case, this crisis shows that the system of homeland security is still completely out of force, that it is not yet designed, that it is not legally regulated until the end, and even those powers that exist for certain ministers are simply ignored or, or simply, not conscious. When I spoke of the need for the opposition also to be involved in considering the measures that are mostportunal, the most qualitative for a particular situation, of course it required and to declare a major natural disaster, as our Constitution says in Article. 17, which would automatically gain greater importance in crisis management and the approval of measures to be implemented. But that would mean including the parliamentary opposition, and I regret that it didn't happen that way, that we are all involved in thinking about what measures are best, best quality in certain situations. And now to make it all right together, we have to change the law to law out those measures in which, say, the parliamentary opposition didn't have a word at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199497	Thank you, too. Two replicas, right? The first line has Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199498	Thank you very much. My colleague Klisovic, you are absolutely right and I hope that will be something that we will change by getting out of the crown of the crisis, which is that the opposition is more respected. So everything the SDP does in this assembly, and let's start with that Civil Protection Authority Act that was actually the first law, and it was supposed to be the second, where we absolutely agreed, we didn't even give any replicas, supported that law, but pointing to some problems. And I hope we start listening and it's no problem to say yes, you're right, we'll respect your proposal. That's not the case now, all we do is look at ourselves with some undersight as if we want to do something wrong, and we want every document that comes out of this assembly to be better, better, in the interest of all citizens because the coronaryvirus doesn't recognize party colors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199499	Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199500	That's exactly how a colleague of Jovanovic did it. The unity of the nation is not one-minded nation. And those two things have to be made up. The unity of the nation is for the nation to sit together and try to lead to the best solutions in an interactive dialogue. In this case, to the best epidemiological measures, as well as measures for the recovery of the Croatian economy, or measures in education. What about our seniors now, are they going to have a graduation or not? How he's going to enroll in college is all in the air, the anxiety in families where we have graduates growing every day they don't get answers. Instead of sitting together and thinking about things like that, it doesn't happen anymore. And when each party individually tries to think and send a message to the government, their proposals are simply ignored. They ignore that they begin not only to ignore but also to criticise, but not on that substantive basis, but from where you have the right to criticise yourself in this situation in government at all, where you have the right to violate a single nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199501	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see that you are still in favour of making a decision from the article. 17. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would be decided by a two-thirds majority, would prescribe measures to restrict human rights and freedoms from the Constitution. So now I'm asking you to tell me in detail what level should the Parliament make such decisions? Does this mean that we here in the Parliament should make decisions a day, for example, about the quarantine of Udbin instead of the headquarters he did in Lika? Should we make a decision about declaring quarantine on the island of Murter here by two-thirds of the majority? Should we two-thirds of the majority establish measures, for example, not to operate the Trešnjevska plac or that there may be a store in Croatia? Do you advocate this or what level should we make such a two-thirds majority decision in the House that would prescribe the reduction and restriction of human rights and freedoms in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199503	Thank you. Mr. Klisovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199504	So, colleague Bačić, I stand for the respect of our Constitution and if the Constitution asks us to sit daily as parliamentary representatives, then the elected people from the citizens of this country will be sitting. What's the problem with sitting down? If county headquarters make decisions that are not authorized for quarantine, then that's the problem. You can cross her, if you don't think that at a time of crisis the Parliament can sit if it takes 24 hours a day then you're very wrong. And why don't you let us be inside then discuss it together, why don't you want to follow our suggestions? And limit human rights just like that, so we won't allow you as much as we can to use all the resources available to political parties and parliamentary deputies to defuse unwarranted violations or restrict human rights. And as long as we sit in this assembly we'll sit, as long as we have to discuss, we'll discuss as much as we need to invest in a smart and quality decision as we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199505	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's Mr. Pernar's turn. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199506	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say that the campaign in this nuthouse right now that we're living in from the state is about rhetoric of hate and lies against people who dare to tell the truth. In this House, I'm called a murderer of old people, a person who wants to take away the right to live normal, etc. and all the other labels that they want to stick to me. However, it is my duty to tell people the truth about those who falsely and without basis attack me. First of all, I will read the announcement of Mrs. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's representative, saying: "I am appalled, Pernar would be older in quarantine that young people can live," he says so as to quarantine the elderly that young people can live. "So don't older people have the right to a normal life?" asked Mrs. Vuksanovic. "Although everything needs to be humiliated and demoted, take away their rights?" she asks. And what's going on is that older people are already living in quarantine, not just them, but the whole state. All kinds of rights have been taken away from the entire state. So this isn't about us enjoying all our rights and being free people. We're not free people, these rights have been greatly reduced. And that's not only for those whose crown could harm but for everyone, not selectively young people who face life, who are going to get over that crown with no symptoms. Not only minors, half of all who are more than crowns have no symptoms at all and simply get over that disease without knowing it. Now what's the point? They're trying to create the thesis that I want old people pushed into some special quarantine into some kind of camp, that I don't know what to do to old people, but that's not true. My wish is only the following, my wish is to allow young people a normal life, people, to allow the work of cafes, restaurants, public transport, theatres, cinemas, etc., but to allow older people who are already in quarantine who cannot and cannot go to a cafe right now, theatre, etc. that for them is the prohibition. So my goal is not to introduce some new restrictions on pensioners, but to allow existing restrictions that are currently limited to vulnerable groups for the entire population, and all others to live normally. And then someone will say yes, Mr. Pernar, and what if someone is 65 and is working or 67 in a working relationship or has to for some reason and has the right to a pass for what? Well, there's always an exception as far as it's concerned, so let's keep working and we don't have a problem. It's not the point of that measure to say it hardly, no matter who 65 years can't, if anyone has a valid reason, they can. But it's pointless that a bunch of pensioners are now driving on trams that don't have a real reason for that, that was my purpose. My goal was to protect the lives of the pensioners, not to kill them. And that's the flaw of the Swedish model, because Sweden was politically correct, didn't dare decide to segregate, and then she said you can all go to public transport and old and young, you can all go to restaurants both old and young. And then when the old ones started getting sick and dying, they said more like the Swedes didn't care about the old ones. And if the Swedes said look, you can't go to public transportation, cafes, restaurants, etc. Then people would say, look at these Swedes, how bad they are for the old. And why is that? Because they don't have the political courage to make the right decision. I have the political courage to make the right decision and that right decision is neither a general quarantine nor an absolute absence of quarantine as in Sweden. The solution is a half-model or mixed model, for young and healthy people all restrictions are lifted, and only to introduce restrictions to old people. It is a solution not to introduce a new one but to leave already in force, and in three months we have come out of this epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199507	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. Without the theater, without the older people at the theater and concerts, only you and I are going to play for kids and kids. It's mostly theater shows for older people. Okay, but we figured out what you want to say. Mr. Maras has a replica of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199508	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar come to you with these discussions and try to understand that these situations are not for this kind of debate, especially because we have to show solidarity in society. And your appeals don't even know who they're targeting, perhaps the few people who are the theorists of some plots in Croatia and who think this is happening because of some others all together. Your discussions with our senior citizens are totally inappropriate and I wish you weren't leading them at all. So let it aside, you have the ability to criticise the hundreds of other parties in this situation for our older citizens to provide maximum protection and trust by the state in order to get as few killed as possible in this unfortunate situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199509	Thank you, too. If I understand, there's no response to the replica. Let's move on, Mr. Marin Skibola will have his debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199510	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. It is clear that Croatia reacted in time with measures and as far as I can see, the situation is under control. So that's good. The health system is not burdened, and that is why I do not understand how neglecting people with certain other health problems is taking place. Free Dalmatia conveys information that emergency medical care in Plots has refused to intervene with the reason that they do not have an adequate vehicle. A man died on his doorstep. How is that possible? I'm interested in how this is possible and I insist that you send an inspection to investigate and detect exactly what happened. Other citizens' experiences also say they do not receive satisfactory health care during this pandemic. And that's why the citizens are worried and are asking questions, whether the services will even go out in the field in case of an emergency. So this is a paradoxical situation where citizens no longer know whether emergency services will go out in the field, so I ask that you communicate better with the public and that there is no confusion, uncertainty and fear of citizens who are already clearly represented. I also noticed that in public there was no difference between those who died with the coronary virus and those who died from the coronary virus, so statistics process it in a way that put everything on the pile. I think it should be more quality to communicate it here, because it's just that it's just that the data that's not real is being presented. I am personally interested in you as an agent to comment on the Swedish model of combating the coronary virus because I consider the Swedish institutions to be serious and strong institutions. Sweden is a democratic state and I wonder how they decided to go in this direction, and why, for example, is Croatia going in another direction? So I'm interested in your opinion because different countries have chosen different ways of fighting the coronary virus. The fact is that absolute quarantine leaves the biggest economic consequences that will ultimately bring major damage to the national economy, and that damage is the question of how many years it will take to recover economies, especially for example. in Croatia where the economy is well based on tourism. What should certainly be criticised should be criticised for the conduct of certain police officers. So some police officers are using this situation where they have more power to live up to the citizens. So I'm interested in whether you of the Civil Service for Public Protection gave clear and unequivocal instructions to police officials so that they could do the right thing. Because what happened? So in Rijeka, it happened that people were standing in front of the kiosk, all prescribed distances from each other 2 meters away, respecting social distance, and police officials started yelling with a megaphone to move, to go home, to be brought in and stuff like that. We have seen that attacks and journalists are being attacked, so I would like you to simply communicate with Minister Bozinovic and give clear instructions to police officials, and that there is no panic and fear greater than it is right now. And I wonder why some hospitals don't respect your instructions on the billing of salaries to healthcare professionals? So, for what reasons do certain hospitals not want to pay their salaries as agreed and is it possible that the principals do not respect your instructions that you have, which you have issued? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199511	There's no replica? Oh, yes, Mr. Maras has a replica, yes, yes, in the beginning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199512	Thank you very much. Mr. Schibol, I'm interested in your opinion of the situation that is in this HS at the edge of the incredible. So the chairman who is sitting here right now, Vice-President Furio Radin knows that we are not working on the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because this, this mass-variance, where two representatives from each club sits, regardless of the size of the club and no matter who and how they represent, with a short period of time of debate that is not defined at all by the Rules of Procedure, contributes to the fact that we are sending a message that the Assembly is not necessary in this situation at all. Unfortunately, it happens to us then that when a law is passed retroactive people also experience it that way. So, it might be better if Mr. Radin didn't ambush the council at all than to do a farce like this in front of Croatian citizens. So let's stick to the rules, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, and then we'll all be right together. And smart. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199513	Thank you very much. It's a deal reached with and with between all the club presidents, and... a, but you know that you have a Constitutional Court, a Constitutional Committee, a Rules of Procedure and a political system, you have a lot. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm doing what's the result of the deal between, especially between the two biggest parties because I was at the presidency yesterday and yesterday at the presidency is, we actually talked about it. Oh, left hand please. The left hand, better, Mr. Schibol was the first to seek, the first to look for Mr. Schibol. Mr. Schibol, go ahead. [[I'm sorry?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199514	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, Mr. Maras...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199515	No, no, wait, what? What... Okay. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199516	I believe I have the right answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199517	You're right, and now and now the time begins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199518	Mr. Maras, I can agree with you in one hand. But you know what the problem is? The problem is, the problem is those double rules. I, as I recall at the Bureau of Parliament, was also told that MPs older than 65. The recommendation was not to come to meetings for health reasons and safety. However, MPs who are older than 65. Not only do they not come to the meetings but they are the most active, so they come to all the sessions, so the question is these agreements at the parliament's presidency as they apply and actually what is theirs, what is their purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199519	Somehow, I got out of this deal at the Bureau of Parliament that those who are over 65 are. That they didn't come to the sessions, she got away with it, and I guess you were in the presidency, so you remember. Mr. Maras, you raised your hand, didn't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199520	Thank you very much. Here is just to announce that, as under my right under the Rules of Procedure, I will file for this work which is in HS and has no will to change anything that is illogical, this will submit to the Committee on the Constitution an appeal to indicate whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199521	Yeah, now I see that I've allowed you without inviting yourself to any... It was one free conversation and this one when you changed, when you changed your hand everything I allow you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199522	Thank you very much. I see you're having a good time, Mr. Vice President, it's okay, but the times aren't exactly for fun, and I've had to announce this because otherwise I wouldn't have the right to address the Constitutional Committee, that the president has no will to change it, that, by my free judgment, it would take forever, I want it to be over, that the Constitutional Committee takes its stand on this matter and that we see whether we're working in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure or not, although we're all aware that we're not. I wonder what kind of exhibition academic Reiner will come up with to explain to us, basically, that, yes, yes...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199523	So you want to talk or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199524	I want to, I've been talking for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199525	All right, then. No, I didn't know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199526	So, so here's what I was just about to say firsthand, here. As far as the situation itself is concerned, much has been said in the debate itself. I can say that most of the things that the Republic of Croatia is doing and how we treat the pandemic and the crisis are satisfied. I'm sorry that the minister threw a little shadow with several situations, completely unnecessary to me, to the whole story. One thing is the procession on Hvar, I don't think the union of those Croatian citizens support exceptions in a situation where they're all solid. If every day we thank the citizens who respect the measures and adhere to the measures and rules adopted by a body, regardless of whether there was a legal basis or not, from the moment we pass this law, it is the turn to adhere to it by all regardless of whether proper spaces are maintained. And the other day you were talking about how athletes in team sports couldn't train the same thing, runners could run two feet behind each other and train like that, but I don't think that would get us anywhere. So I ask that there be no exceptions in the future, this is what I can tell you, what most of our fellow citizens are saying, this situation with the priest in Split is amazing to me, to appeal to him 3.4 times, that he simply does not accept it, and that the Minister of the Interior says that it goes to the conscience of those who organise it. I mean, I don't think there's any extra story here. It just has to be prevented. If everyone has to act the same way, if we're all in this together, then everyone has to stick to the measures and the way it's prescribed because then it's irrevocably disrupting both order and future situations, meaning what fellow Stazic said, someone can ask for May 1st, and then, I don't know, you probably know that Alka has been running for over 3 hundreds of years, and on that side someone can ask for Alka to run without an audience, the same thing will be 2 meters away, but I mean the day, of course, we all hope that the measures will drop by then, but in this way anyone can set up and anyone can ask for an exception and can be allowed. It doesn't matter that you're from Hvar, I don't see that it was your intention to help your Hvars, but it just happened that way, but don't do it, here, please in front of the citizens that I've just talked to about not doing it in the future. What bothers me especially is the relationship that the Croatian government has towards, if we are all in this together, then the proposals the opposition makes should be experienced in this way. If we have tomorrow, according to me, a perfectly justified law in the Croatian Parliament that will prevent the execution of Croatian citizens, it is amazing to me that we still do not have at the debate of the law sent by the SDP Representatives' Club on Moratorium on loans within a year of the moment of the law being passed. So this kind of non-communication absolutely raises the question of whether we are all in this together or whether some have decided that they simply have the absolute right to believe and wish their fellow citizens the best, and all those who talk, must not criticise and have no good intentions. I think we have good intentions, and on that side, I would like to hear the voice of the opposition more and try to win this all together as soon as possible and ultimately, to ensure for our fellow citizens what is best. What I'm also interested in, he said well the other day, that at this point we have 4 million epidemiologists in Croatia, but I'm interested in Mr. Minister, your opinion and knowledge of whether the vaccination against tuberculosis has contributed to our fellow citizens' resilience because it's a trend in Eastern countries, we see some scientific papers already written on it, and I'd be interested in What do you think about it? [[Intruder: Mr. Maras' time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199527	But you have a replica, so here you go, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199528	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, I've come to warn you once again about this absurd and absurd situation that at this moment there are seven MPs in this assembly. Seven MPs. And that SDP colleagues are not allowed into the hall because they are said to be no more than two representatives per club and that justice is threatened by health and epideomiological certainty and health prevention. Now, let me explain one more time, I don't get it, who's crazy here? So it's not true that it was an agreement at Parliament's presidency, but it was a deal that at no point would be more than 28 representatives in the hall, and if they were all inside, then there would be no more than 2 representatives of the same club. And you can nod all you want. Can you tell me who's at risk here if there are two or three other SDP colleagues here right now? The press calls us out that we're not in our jobs, people call us names, people tell us we're unemployed, and we're not allowed in the gym. It's a shame and it doesn't matter. Nothing. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] And that's past the Rules of Procedure. It's past the rules, it's past anything. [[Intruder: Time.]] and why there may be more than 2 members of the government in this assembly [[/Intruder: Time. Mr. Djujic's time.]] Incomprehensible/.../... and let's say I can't be 2 members [[Intruder: Don't...]] one club [[Intruder: Don't.]] Why don't we just stick to the Rules of Procedure? [[Don't. No. No.]] Why don't you talk? [[Intruder: I chair here many times this afternoon...]] You won't let us talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199529	And a few times I've seen more people than there are today. A few times I've seen more people something that's got them today. [[I see them in the hallway.]] A little bit. A little bit. [[- Okay, okay, okay.]] And time has passed... [[/Intruder: Here you are now making fun of the Croatian Assembly.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199530	People like that have a picture because you guys make fun of each other here as chairman. It's below every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199531	And now you'll get your first warning. You want another warning? .../ [[Give me another one, take me out. I can't be in the hall anyway. What's the problem?]] Intruder:
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199532	So I want you to because this isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199533	/... you have another reminder. But you can sit down, go, whatever you want, that's your decision. [[Intruder: It's not right.]] And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. ... [[Well, yeah, okay. Okay. /]] And you're right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When you're right, you're right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199534	Mr. Vice President, I have the right to have this out of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Right? And you're with that okay? [[Intruder: Yes, absolutely.]] So you refuse to discuss in HS outside the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure? Yeah, you're with that, okay? [[Who me? You're asking me?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199535	I'm performing here on the basis of an agreement between the party presidents. and the presidency. [[Well, yeah, but we can't, if you look.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199536	If we're a state and we're MPs who swore to the Constitution, then I guess that's what we're talking about. Then I guess that's the basic document we should be working on. [[Intruder: Well other than that you spoke.]] We can't stay, we can't stick to the Constitution 90% or Rules of Procedure 75% [[I wouldn't talk if I were you.]] So I've got 20 seconds left. [[Good. Okay. Okay.]] What's the anxiety? [[No, no, okay.]] Okay, can I talk? [[/Intruder: All right. Well, you're talking to me, so I answer to you, right?]] I ask you, Mr. Djujic, you're absolutely right, I suggest you help me, we write it down and we give it to the Constitution Committee, they have to meet in one day, and we'll finally finish that farce. [[Intruder: Absolutely.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199537	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull. Here you go. Yeah, that's, yeah, yeah, that's final, yeah, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199538	Thank you very much. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, if you are watching this, I sincerely hope that we will soon win the coronary virus, and the consequences of the crown crisis will be reduced. However, when we talk about the coronary crisis in, as a virus in a health problem then today when I see a report as many infected, the most dead come from the Split-Dalmatia County again I will repeat the cause is mainly the biggest cause of being home to the elderly and powerless in Split, which is owned by the Split-Dalmatia County and this has happened because of the irresponsibility, and you are aware, because of the irresponsibility, due to incompetence, because of everything that should not happen in health institutions, and the key problems are county. Countys are the cause of this problem and on this coronary virus, what happened in the Split health home, it says, we see that it's time for the county to be abolished. That they're unnecessary and now in this health crisis they've actually done what wasn't expected. I now see that half of Split-Dalmatia County, and most of the home for older and powerless, is threatened by the entire health system of the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia because of the man who named Ante Sanader when he lost his place as Mayor of Omis, and of course with a blessing, with the assistance of the man who means the current mayor Blaženko Boban. And otherwise, the people below stick to whatever some say temperament, the Dalmatians, people adhere to 99.9% of the measures, but then the virus came in with a wrongful designation, caught by Ante Sanader's former mayor now.../incomprehensible/... HDZ secretary and Blaženko Boban and now agglomerations such as the synergic agglomeration where 6 municipalities and 6 cities of the tribals would get permission to have municipalities and cities, people in those areas communicate, now because of the lack of responsibility of mayors for the appointment of such persons who lost elections, to a place where they shouldn't be on that quest, we have a huge problem. We now have a health problem and an economic problem in Split, and this whole story will be extended to the expense of millions of people in Dalmatia. For who? And what's waiting for the Minister, I don't even know what's waiting for you, commission. Why the commission? Here I am as a health-related man, fighting for health services in the Cetina region, asking petitions, fighting for a stationary, maternity, people on this X-ray women waited for hours and hours for months to enroll in breast ultrasound. However, in this crisis it is evident that we must safeguard health care, and these people, these pests, are removed from the health care system, from the health care system, social welfare and care systems because they simply destroy the system and on this it is evident that the county, when the county institutions entered the coronary virus, just when you call, when you call for a bunker, to isolation, to observe the measures, to hold the sea, there are 10, 12 representatives, cannot be held to the Mass, says Mayor Boban that it is crazy what the Mass was. But the madness of what the names of a man who doesn't have, who for ten days saw that he had a fever, that they had a protégé, and he didn't report it to anyone. That's all he was appointed to do because he lost the Omis election. And I no longer blame that.../incomprehensible/... now I blame the one who kept him all the time, first because of the loss in that institution, and second because of the spread of that virus and now in my Sinj from that home of health, from the nursing home, i.e. home to the elderly and powerless and all over Dalmatia. And no one is responsible because the bag here dances the kosher wheel, as I know to say, each one holds, and does not release for political reasons, and people suffer Dalmatia, Sinj, Kaštel, Trogir, Makarska, from Zadar to Sibenik, to all of Croatia suffers because of one irresponsible decision by the mayor of Sanader, former and current Boban. And it's up to us gentlemen, once again, on this summit, regardless of opposition or power, the best decision and at the end of the term, let's end the county they're the main brakes of development and this coronary virus is visible. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199539	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199540	Thank you very much. I apologize, I must seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure in order to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, Article 14 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which is that MPs have the right to attend the assembly. At this point, 2 SDP deputies cannot join the assembly session because of the illogical rules that you have made that do not respect the proportional size of the club with how many MPs should be in the assembly. So I ask you to respect that remark and to find that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has been violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199541	Thank you, too. That's right, that's Article 14, yeah. And now, in the end, the minister, Mr. Minister Willy Beros, will speak on behalf of the motionary. Here you go. Here, you didn't violate the Rules of Procedure because you pointed out and you said you'd get back to me, that you'd come by, look, that this isn't a round table. All right, since it's not a round table we've already agreed on before, Mr. Beros, please go ahead and please feel free to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199542	Thank you. Well-respected MPs and MPs, here I am not going to be long, I will just say that there is something I would like to further explain, Mr. Zekanovic is gone. However, before I left, I explained to him what I wanted to say. So the question is whether people die especially chronic and old patients with or from the virus. My answer was with, but it needs to be further clarified because the media has already started to interpret it differently. So this isn't specific to just these viral infections, it's also some other situations. For those chronic and old patients who are burdened with certain diseases, this is that tongue on the scale that weighs and unfortunately they fail to retaliate with this disease. If they had no previous chronic diseases, they might have survived and that's why in medical terms we say they died with the virus. However, counterpart Zekanovic realized and said they do not die directly from viral disease. They're dying because it's the virus that beat and made their chronic condition worse, it's essential and it was very important to tell everyone now. Furthermore, I can't answer you all even though I'd like to, but I'll say that emergency medical activity even though we are in special circumstances of the epidemic still works. In the last 20 days, 2,881 transport of patients who were coronary positive and those who were not positive in emergency medical activity 24.314 and 30.324 transport, respectively, proved to work. I heard from the Director of the Emergency Medical Services. She sent surveillance to the designated facility where the case you mentioned happened. I would say that today's data indicating an increase in the number of new patients from 37 means a total of 1,741 and unfortunately 2 who have died, are not of course good, could be better, but again in the context of the whole event, we are avoiding further this exponential growth that could endanger the health system. This is the result of the implementation of precisely these measures that we have discussed today, and I thank you all for the participation in this debate, on your proposals, suggestions and criticisms, it is of great importance to us, but I believe that at the end of this debate we will now adopt the same at the end of this legislative proposal because it will set us a new institutional framework for the fight and against this one, but also against future similar threats. Here's a thank you to everyone one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199543	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Before the replica, Mr. Maras had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199544	Thank you very much. The 236th article is now injured, and you were obliged to explain my previous breach to the Rules of Procedure, so I assume that you did not respect it, so I will appeal to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Committee, and you have violated it now and 236, so I warn you not to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199545	I didn't realize this at the end, repeat. 236?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199546	So you, as a well-known Rules of Procedure, should know that when a representative raises a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you must be the first interpreter to explain whether he is right or wrong. Unless he is satisfied, he may appeal to the Constitution Committee. So I guess you said I was wrong, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199547	Okay. Now you can sit down and I'll answer you. On extraordinary occasions, we've been working overtime for a while now. It's an extraordinary situation for the crown of the virus. We agreed outside of the Rules of Procedure. We agreed that there would be a smaller number of people, a small number of MPs in the Parliament. That's what we agreed, gentlemen. Now if you say that we work outside the Rules of Procedure we work outside the Rules of Procedure on the basis of a club arrangement. And why is that? Because it's an extraordinary situation. No, I won't give you another word, you asked for my explanation, now I'm giving you an explanation, you'll go on where we agreed. We agreed it would be, but for a long time now, we've been doing it that way. So I was sitting up at the gallery when I voted, you understand me, they even moved me up, the other man voted for me downstairs. I mean it's all out of the Rules of Procedure, it's done on the basis of agreements between clubs because the situation is extraordinary. Please appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, appeal to the President of the Republic for which I think he has the right to speak at all times and file a constitutional suit, do whatever you want, but that's the deal. I have to work until 7:00, I promised a gentleman I'd work till 7:00, and I'll be working gentlemanly till 7:00. And you don't have to act gentlemanly, you can act and say you've agreed outside the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, everyone agreed it was an emergency. ... That's what we agreed, and that's what I got. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The guideline is that there are fewer agents inside to infect each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199548	Mr. Vice President, the SDP Representatives Club has made a proposal to respect the proportionality of the number of MPs in HS, if it decreases to 40 MPs, then not everyone can have 2, if we have 40...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199549	As the proportionality will be respected, I will do so, I have not received such guidance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199550	That's our suggestion, that's the deal we're looking for. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199551	But there's no deal on that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199552	And when will it be, sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199553	I don't know, I don't know, I'm not the President of the Parliament, I didn't get that kind of guidance. I got a hint that there must be two in each club. When it's going to be proportionate, I'll act like it, and then you deal with smaller parties whether it's okay or not. ... He doesn't want to talk, it's gentlemanly, I'm a gentleman and I'll work until 6 gentlemen come Mr. Rainer and the gentleman will continue to lead the session, and you act as you please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. And the replicas are, you're right. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199554	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. Here I thank you for today's conversation, and I hope that this will indeed be a constructive conversation, that you will also respect the proposals of the opposition that are well-intentioned and in order to fight together for better health for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, I got two more questions from the field, so here's my chance to pass it on to you. A private home for elderly people from Vukovar complains that it is hardly possible for homes in the Republic of Croatia to comply with all the requirements that are rightly placed before them because they cannot obtain the protective equipment required, so please see what can be done here. And secondly, the University of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County sent a letter to you, and I ask you to respect their legitimate concern regarding the institution of isolation and self-insulation in its own home or other appropriate space where they ask that in implementing acts, measures and the setting of criteria do not leave behind an important and fundamental role of competent epidemiologists of the county institutes in accordance with the HZJZ guidelines.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199555	Thank you. Do you want to answer each or? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199556	No, I don't. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I've taken note of these two remarks of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199557	Thank you very much. Mr. Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199558	Dear Ministers, if you find a vaccine against the coronary virus and when it is found, will you advocate the mandatory vaccination of all citizens or production. I know, on my own. I know you can't give your official opinion right now, but you can say your opinion. And I'm interested in what tests in the Republic of Croatia were previously tested for coronary viruses as cause of respiratory infections? So, before, how was it tested before, what tests?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199560	Dear Mr. Representative, you have well noticed that we do not have more vaccines and that there are a lot of questions when it comes to its future action, but what I can tell you regardless of whether the vaccine is detected, if tested, and if it is applicable absolutely I will be for its use because the vaccine is a historical fluid that saved countless lives. Therefore, I believe that when the time comes that it will be applicable. But the question at all is whether this virus will behave at all, whether it will remain circulating around the country or not, whether it will give up, whether it will increase, whether it will mutate, so there is a series of answers that I cannot give an exact answer to right now, questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199561	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199562	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, in the end I would ask you to ask at some of the next headquarters sessions that as soon as the measure relaxes, at least within the county movement of people, that is a big problem, the most citizens in the movement are complaining about it, I can't look at their property, I think we just have to take care of it. On the other hand, I would commend you for an old man you probably don't even hope I'll praise. Unlike Prime Minister Plenkovic, you respect experts from other parties. There was a member of the SDP epidemiologist with you yesterday at the press, and that's good. It shows that the expertise does not know the parties and that everyone should cooperate in the fight against this epidemic and it would be good for Prime Minister Plenkovic to behave in this way and respect the SDP's proposals in HS because perhaps that he heard that this SDP member might not be able to, or work within, your group, but on that side It's nice to meet you, and here I am commending you on that side. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199563	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199564	Thank you very much. Minister Berosh, I have a question for you. The other day there was a request from headquarters about training top athletes, and then the answer was that it was never even banned. But he is behind this on an official inquiry that has been answered since the Croatian Olympics that can't be further trained. What's concrete is, I'll explain very much. So let's say sailing training. Our sailboats are either single or two. That means there's either one in the sailboat or there's two of them. There can still be a coach at sea who's in a dinghy, with whom he doesn't even have to be direct contact. They don't train. They must prepare themselves because they will still be expected to open up some regattas and everything else there in the autumn or winter, and now they're actually confused because on the one hand it was orally answered you're never even allowed, and they don't train, and on the other hand it was written and the answer, so please, please, you may already know what the position is or to think about it after all. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199565	Thank you. Here you go, Mr.... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199566	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, our profession really leads the main word, so that they decide everything. I know there's been talk of similar problems, it's probably a dispute that if two sails, they must be... Yeah, so they have to be in some kind of contact, that's not desirable. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But just as I've answered for those who hunt fish, I believe that the one who sails alone unless his sailing involves some advances that he owes, which gathers more people, should not, in my humble thinking, be a struggle. But what's important is to say, this is a dynamic process where, from day to day, as I said on several occasions, we evaluate all these measures, so it's no problem to even check this one again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199567	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199568	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable ministers, normally congratulations on your work and all healthcare professionals, but also congratulations on the organisation of the health system itself, especially on this last 60-ton donation from China, so I'm also very interested in going to the budget rebalancing itself soon, as we are standing with the Ministry's budget for how exhausting this is, and a lot of us here have been included normally in the organization itself, but also in donations to local KBCs as much as you think it is good, that is. Where is the most necessary, where would you target the most money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199569	Dear Mr. Representative, so this wasn't a donation from China, part of it, but most of the protective equipment has been paid, I think it all cost 5 million dollars in transportation. When it comes to the budget of the Ministry of Health, it is not large, but we are trying to behave rationally, but rather certain projects that were planned for the future period we put aside, waiting for some better times. And as for donations if they go centrally we have certain needs of health institutions and then very transparently and clearly we can share it. However, the second is when some people want to donate exclusively to certain health institutions, which is not the same problem. In any case, these donations show the good of the Croatian people, and they are welcome under these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199570	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199571	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. Yesterday, the news was that the good news was that a plane of protective equipment was arriving from China. However, for me and for us from HSS, it is not good news that we have become addicts on import and food and here are medical protective equipment, so it is our suggestion that you sit down with craftsmen, entrepreneurs and the economy of Croatia that has shown that you have said solidarity, give donations, and have the ability to quickly reorientate to production in Croatia. Let's reduce this public procurement in a way that buys from a domestic company, organize, 90% of it can be produced in Croatia. This will keep both jobs and help the economy, and healthcare will have sufficient amounts of protective equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199573	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Minister Horvat, Minister of Economy whose jurisdiction is the procurement of protective equipment, gathered a team of businessmen 15 days ago, but also a team of scientists and is trying to run the production of FF52 protective masks, which is not very simple, but I believe they will succeed. We also testify that a number of smaller or larger companies are organising the production of these protective equipment, but I must tell you that at this point it is being spent in extremely large quantities so that while we are somehow organising real production it will take some time, however this situation must be some indication for the future. I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199574	Thank you, too. And now I'm really closing the argument. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199575	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, we will begin our work and, as announced yesterday, we will begin with a statement on the amendments. First of all, the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 921. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Party of Labour Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the representative Furio Radin, the IDS, the PGS and LRI and the GLAS Representatives Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, it will be the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, respected Tomislav Dulibic. First of all, on the amendment of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club to Article 8 of the first amendment, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form in Article 8 amending Article 21 in the new paragraph 2 behind the word ‘HZZ’ and shall add the words ‘public health office of the County or the City of Zagreb’.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199577	Thank you very much. Do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199578	We accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199579	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. The second amendment is a representative of Furia Radina, who is actually consummated as much as I think with this same thing. This third amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP relating to Article 10. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199580	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. According to the amendment, the security measures referred to in Article 47(1) to (3) of the Law may be ordered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not by the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia, as proposed in Article 10 of the final draft of the law. The amendment is not accepted because the powers of the Civil Protection Staff referred to in Article 10 of the final proposal for a law are proposed in accordance with the part of that headquarters to a certain applicable Civil Protection System Act and it is also prescribed that the decisions of the headquarters are made under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199581	Thank you, on behalf of you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199582	Article 10 of this proposal provides for security measures other than the Minister of Health Affairs to be adopted by the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. It is apparent that an amendment has been proposed to the effect that during the current Covida-19 Civil Protection Headquarters, the measures provided for in Article 47 were adopted by the Republic of Croatia. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases although there was no legal basis for this, and this proposal seeks to legalise amendments and additions to this law. Although we are generally in favour of this, we feel that such practice is not good or desirable. The Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia is an operational implementing body and should remain that way. This power to adopt security measures which, as we can see, can limit the rights and freedoms of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be with persons or bodies who have legitimacy and direct political responsibility for their actions. I therefore propose that not additional powers be given to the Croatian Civil Protection Staff but that powers be given to the Minister of Health Affairs by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I demand a vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199583	Thank you very much. We are going to the fourth amendment, it is the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, in conjunction with Article 76. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199584	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because materially legal provisions of the law are not required to prohibit the spread of false news or information which encourages the non-compliance with the security measures for the protection of the population of infectious diseases within the meaning of the new point of Article 76(3) and proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199585	Thank you. On behalf of the MPs' club, the respected representative of Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199586	Thank you. So what is not forbidden is explicitly allowed. So we believe that there is a legal vacuum between the inciting others to non-compliance with security measures and is not regulated at all, but the Penal Code says that someone who deliberately spreads the infection can be held accountable. Therefore, there is no criminal provision between full anarchy and a severe penalty, criminal qualifications. So, we think it's very important that.../incomprehensible/... prevent in their intention to encourage young people to infect themselves that they can get in touch with older people and people who are in, vitally threatened with Covid-19 disease and I believe that to the least extent should be an infringement provision regulated by this law. Finally, I reiterate the emphasis between anarchy and one normal regulation and one dragon punishment as they are carried out in Hungary, and I believe that we can still be discreet and introduce such breaking orders and therefore ask for a vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199587	Thank you very much. Next is the fifth amendment of the GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199588	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the law does not contain a specific material and legal provision for which the infringement is prescribed in Article 76a. in point 3, as proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199589	In the name of the club, respected representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199590	Thank you very much. So, the coronary virus has brought us a series of changes, we don't shake hands, we sit at a distance, but one change that it hasn't brought, and that's the amendment of the opposition we don't accept. And with an explanation that's always very strange and very unusual. There's a place in this amendment right here. This amendment speaks of the fact that it is equally very dangerous, someone who calls for people to gather, who calls for not to take care that these viruses are not exactly something but can be collected and in this way you are actually sending a message and the headquarters is sending a message that they are not for the same thing, that some really have to stick to, and some don't. I'm asking nicely for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199591	Thank you. The 6th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199592	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Decision declaring the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia as from 11 March 2020. has been adopted on the basis of Art. 2.St. 4. of the applicable law which does not explicitly require the publication of this decision in the National Journal, and therefore cannot be accepted subsequent publication within the meaning of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199593	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199594	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we wanted to help correct these, I would say, mistakes in the steps that the government has made in dealing with this epidemic. It is clear that by this law you want to legalise all those procedures that have been happening, and for which there was no legal basis. We felt it was very important to publish a decision on the occurrence of an epidemic in the National Journal so that, therefore, our citizens would not call for the state not to have notified the citizens of the outbreak, which could ultimately lead to certain legal consequences. You have chosen to reject this amendment, and thus you have chosen the possibility of these possible lawsuits and legal consequences, but it is now your responsibility, we have done everything as a constructive opposition to protect the state, and here is the state power of these proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199595	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. And the 7th Amendment is a club of representatives of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199596	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes deleting an article. 18, which explains that it is a retroactive application of the law. Since it is not about retroactiveness in art. 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, already on apparent retroactiveness, as the provision concerns legal situations that are under way and apply to the established relations that continue in the future, on which the same position has been taken by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Court of Justice, the amendment in question cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199597	In the name of the Club, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199598	Thank you very much. I will beg the vote on this amendment. As we have already said in the debate, the minister made decisions on the basis of a valid law. All the decisions that are now in force, the declaration, the declaration of quarantine, the epidemic, the pandemic is in accordance with the current law. If it hadn't been a problem and we didn't need this article because of the announced lawsuits, we wouldn't have had this amendment and the addition of the law, or we would have it at the moment when all these alarming conditions go by, and it's evident that we're going to fight these consequences for a long time and make one too many changes and additions to the law or even a whole new law that would define all the conditions to adapt to some other conditions and some other relationships is the way we're working now, you know that, is actually the way of the 19th century, the only fight we can have is the distance of self-insulation and that's new to everything, and that's a fact. To you this, this provision should only be for the reason that you were afraid that the decisions made by the headquarters were not based on the provisions which they were and you made this provision, you have this provision to be able to retroactively apply it. There's no apparent retroactivity. For someone who's been in self-insulation and it's been two weeks, that story is over or something. So this just shows that, that you're scared, that you're sure that you brought some things in a way that you shouldn't, and now we have this new termology of "the apparent retroactiveness". So we're sitting in the assembly, apparently this or that. And if you really wanted to be fair and concrete, this law would be worth it from the moment it was passed, and what it was was based on a law that was still to this day until it was voted in force. So I repeat once again, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199599	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199600	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats slowly. And I especially invite you to sit in your seat, have your own card to confirm your identification, so those who may not be in their place must have their own card, draw out the card of whoever is otherwise in that place, leave it at the end of the microphone, and put yours in the space that is intended for it. Everyone seems to have found their place. I'd like to ask you just for a little quiet now, so first I'd like to say what the voting rules are, then we'll, I can see that there's already a few hands in the air, and then we'll do that. So, we're here in the assembly, and our colleagues and colleagues are at two more locations. One is in the small hall, and the other are in the hall Josip Jelačić. When I say and read the point on which we will vote, those who sit in benches, vote by electronic means, those who sit on the side, vote by hand, their votes will be counted by hand, as well as by our colleagues and colleagues at the gallery, and those who sit in the small hall and who sit in the hall of Josip Jelačić, they vote by hand, there are persons who collect their votes and also, by electronic means, report here the central table as the results were, after which they will all be added, and I will publish the results. So it's going to take a little longer, we don't have much, we have 17 laws and about so many amendments, so if we're going to have each minute or more, it's going to be an hour again, it shouldn't be longer than that. Before we go to the vote, I invite you as last time, that everyone who wants to take a break, let me know right away, two minutes of course of speech, and then I suggest, if you agree, that we don't go on a break, but go on with the vote right now, so we don't have much movement. Are you okay with that? Okay. All right, here you go, fellow Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199601	President-in-Office of the Parliament, we're looking for consultations on the Act on suspending the implementation of financial resources, which will be held today at the vote. The MOST has, for a month, given in the parliamentary procedure, a proposal for a law to suspend the conduct before Easter, wanting to stop the conduct of citizens and businesses, also taking up the job of bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and businesses. It was not unfortunately solved, you did not consider it, we went to Easter without all the people in Croatia having a peaceful Easter. After Easter, we arrived, you offered to suspend the execution half a solution. It's not even completely solved. The moratorium on loans is not mentioned at all, nothing is solved. I'm asking you to put an emergency in MOST's motion procedure to commit the banks to the moratorium of credit. I'm not gonna beg the banks like Milanovic. I want this most legislative body, the Croatian Parliament, to pass the law, to show the people that this is their country, their Croatia, not Croatia of some banks and some banking lobbys. There's nothing to pray for, there's a law to be passed that will bring moratorium to loans, to the expense of interest, to the charge. Well, it's not like we're looking at it anymore or you're looking at what your relationship is going to be like with the banks, how are the banks going to look at you? So you should be concerned about how the people will look at you. After all, we will continue to put pressure on you, and I hope that because of that pressure and pressure from the public you will understand who is important in this story. That he's a nation, not a bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199602	Thank you. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199603	President-in-Office of the Parliament, we are looking for a break to warn how important SDP's proposals for protecting the most vulnerable citizens, which we will vote on today, and it is almost incredible that the government has rejected our laws that go to help the unemployed, the retired, the socially endangered, the first-line defense of the epidemic. You refused to increase self-insulation fees, you refused to pay for one parent, you refused to stimulate pharmacists, merchants, pharmacists, drivers, logistics workers, security guards, that's what you refused. You refused to pay 75% of the salary for workers in companies affected by the coronary crisis. You refused to suspend the tight interest. You refused to have officials solidarity with citizens so they work for a minimumer. You also refused 0% of VAT on food delivery in these difficult times. That's all you refused, but what makes us particularly sad is that you rejected the SDP bill that we're voting on today, and that's a proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year in these most difficult times for particularly affected groups of citizens. It is only proof that this Plenkovic government protects the interests of banks, it is proof that Plenkovic's government supports the extra profit of banks in other people's accidents in these difficult times. It is unacceptable for individual banks to offer a deposit of credit with interest payments and with the payment of additional costs through segregation so that practically a postponement of credit costs more than half a month's war. I would like to remind you that until today, this government has made no decision to help the unemployed, permanent seasons, social assistance users, pensioners who have been hit the hardest. And that is why we, in the SDP, will insist on our legal solutions and always stand in the protection of the most existentially endangered citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199604	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellow Mrsic. Here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199605	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats to warn of the chaotic state of HZZ. In fact, it is through this office that support workers to preserve jobs. Instead of starting to pay off money on current workers' accounts, the government has led to money being delivered to employers without any contracts. It is not known to whom what is paid, until the money has been paid to employers who are in the blockade, which means that workers will not get their due support from the government. It's not the right way, we've said it multiple times how jobs will be preserved, but already when the government took that route it should have done what was cleanest and simplest, which is to pay the money to the workers on their current accounts. However, it is not yet part of all the problems that arises in the HZZ because the control of whom has been paid and has come to the workers cannot be done by the State Inspectorate because he does not have the authority to do so, this is about support, and HZZ does not have enough people or capacity to verify whether the funds paid by the State have come to workers on their current accounts. All this is saying that this was done in a song, that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has failed, that Minister Aladrovic has been too late to go into this measure and I fear that an initiative that should allow all workers in Croatia who are now on hold to receive funds will in some cases fail because workers will not reach their earned funds. Another thing that comes up there is that there are even employers who have registered neatly over that line of applications, and to date they have no idea if they will get support or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199606	Thank you. Let's move on, fourth request from colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199607	Dear President of the Assembly, Croatian sovereigns have proposed opening markets, I am pleased that the civil protection headquarters has accepted this, they have proposed the opening of fish shops and it has been accepted. We suggested that individual sports fishing be made possible, and I'm glad that it was accepted. We're looking for, we're also looking for what colleagues mentioned in the moratorium, the moratorium on the loans. So, a minimum year. Therefore, it is not acceptable today in the time of this severe financial crisis for people under the same conditions to pay for the loans they paid before the crisis. Furthermore, we must stress that we have a very big problem that is not talked about so much in public space. Apart from the health crisis, we are faced with an economic crisis, but unprecedented proportions. According to the Financial Times, Croatia will be an EU country, and even Europe most affected by this crisis. Since Europe is the focus of the crisis, I am talking about the economic crisis, so Croatia will be one of the countries most affected. According to the governor of the National Bank, Mr Vujčić and Minister Maric, we have the largest VAT drop or VAT collection in the EU, one of the largest VAT collection declines in the world in general. So, if we don't make an emergency roschade at the head of the civil protection headquarters, and if we don't urgently replace Minister Bozinovic as Deputy Prime Minister from that place, for example. Minister Maric or Minister Horvat, Croatia will continue to try to resolve this economic crisis through police methods, and this is not acceptable. We're just not getting out of it. So we propose a rosada instead of Minister Bozinovic, Minister Maric or Minister Horvat because the economic crisis is the biggest crisis we face in days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199608	Here you go, fellow Vucelic. It's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199609	Thank you, President of this assembly. In the name of the Living Wall Club and Let's change Croatia I am looking for a break to discuss further the counter-constitutional proposals of the law that this government intends to violently and illegally force, a law that violates the fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. You are modifying the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that restricts the fundamental freedom of movement of our citizens and that dictatorially protracted majority instead of 2/3 of the majority. We rightly ask ourselves what is the next freedom that you will unlawfully take away from us while keeping us in a state of fear. This law must necessarily be voted 2/3 by majority in order to be valid. We refuse to participate in the Living Wall by supporting you in violating the Constitution and limiting the rights and freedoms of our citizens. This way, Mr. President, I'm also asking you to respect this speech for, by the way. 236. The Rules of Procedure, because we will turn them over to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we will ask them for an opinion, so that I would ask you to confirm that you have taken this note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199610	Everything will be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the rules under which we work. Let's move on now, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199611	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club. We live in an unusual time. We live at the time of the coronary virus or COVID-19. It's the time that changed us. It's changed us in a way that we don't shake hands, it's changed us in a way that we sit in this assembly differently, it's changed us in a way that we don't see our parents or we just see them under different conditions, and it's changed in a political sense that the opposition, regardless of the suggestions that come and that we suggest that they're not good at supporting or that they're willing to give a hand and tell my people we live in unusual times that we don't need to be in our sights and we really have to take care of it. But one thing hasn't changed, and that's that when the opposition gives amendments, by ruling those amendments, they refuse. When the opposition makes drafts of the law, the rule of these laws rejects it. When the opposition points to the fact that those proposals we make for the benefit of the citizens and you will finally come and in one 15 or 20 days and you will, at this point these demands will be rejected, but in 15 or 20 days they will be voted, but let these words of mine really be so, so be it because we all work here for the benefit of the citizens. When you went with the first set of measures, the March set of measures, we said don't do it like that, do it differently, no matter what we voted. I don't understand and I won't understand why the law won't be supported now when it comes to interest moratorium, when it comes to loans. So what everyone's saying, what everyone's pointing out and there's no one who doesn't know it is, the moratorium that the banks have proposed is the same one that's connected either to the coronaryvirus or without the coronaryvirus. We at the GLASs Club immediately put into emergency procedures laws related to those in self-insulation. That law is somewhere on the bottom and I guess He'll put him in a debate when he doesn't want to. [[Intruder: Thank you]] be threatened. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199612	Come on in, now you're the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199613	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSU Club, independent representatives, the SNAGA and the New Policy to warn me of one illogicality. So, if, if the exercise is regulated in 2 laws, it is illogical to change one, and the moratorium of the exercise leaves unprotected pensioners, workers, therefore receiving pensions, pensions and salaries. It is completely illogical, it is a selective, selective approach to solving this problem, and I think it is about those who are the most vulnerable groups of Croatian society, citizens who are most socially endangered. And was it a problem for the Prime Minister or Minister, Minister Aladrovic to check which after receiving certain pensioners to determine how many people were at risk and to see how big the problem was. That problem may be now, we don't know, that problem is maybe 500 people, that problem is maybe 5,000 people, maybe 15,000 people, but it's even important when we're in a situation where people have insufficient means of life and that we should solve problems the same way for everyone, for all citizens. Therefore, I ask you on behalf of the pensioners who address this problem properly in the shortest time so that there is no different approach to different categories, and especially not to the socially most vulnerable categories of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199614	Thank you, too. Comrade Bilek, you are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199615	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club in order to once again say a few words and to consult on these legal proposals or on voting, but also to express our satisfaction with the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, because we also said in the presentation that we would propose a few amendments and additions. I am glad that our amendment is in a changed form, but that he is, that he is also accepted by the fact that in some way the legislative proposal has been improved. We believe that these measures are on track to compare ourselves with the coronary virus situation in our neighbourhood, in our neighbouring countries with the situation in the Republic of Croatia with the number of patients and, unfortunately, the deaths of our citizens, that we can be relatively satisfied with the best measures regarding the Civil Protection Staff itself. But I would also like to point out in this part of the financial sense where the government has made major steps to support our economies, to people who hire our citizens, but also to our citizens, to mention once again that there is a possibility, in part, that part of the companies currently in the process of signing or preparing for a pre-fashion settlement, such as the Daruvar Vodaprivreda, which in May has the first, first hearing that these measures can also be used by the Government of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199616	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199617	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a recess to discuss the laws that we will vote on today. Before that, I would like to say that the Civil Protection Staff and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have adopted a number of measures that have been placed at the very top of the countries and the EU and the world by the number of people and by the number of people killed by this corona of the crisis. As far as economic measures are concerned, I would like to point out that both the March and April package singled out the funds that also place us at the top of the EU Member States at the level of detachment relative to the level of GDP, I think Malta alone is ahead of the Republic of Croatia. These measures, which preserve jobs, which preserve the Croatian economy and the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs, are generally accepted in the Croatian public and in all studies of public change, and according to Croatian businessmen, it is obvious that these measures are affected and will preserve the big crisis of the Croatian economy at the moment. But Croatia today is not the same state that was before the government took responsibility for the management of Croatia, so I would remind all of us that in the past three and a half years the average salary has been increased by 800 kuna, that the minimum wage has been increased by 100 euros, that the pensions have been increased by 12%, that the salaries of employees in public and state services have increased by 18%, and what is important is that as a result of this crisis we have managed to find the funds to increase all parental and parental fees by 100%. What is also important to say is that Croatia, as a state in these times of crisis, has proved to be a particularly functional state and that we have often given ourselves here as an example of the Western European state that should have been an example for us, and in this crisis, they have shown that Croatia is organized and functional state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199618	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we have a problem with how many colleagues are calling me with a connection. It's okay, then we can approach the vote. Now we're going to vote, so once again I'm asking you just for patience, I hope that technically everything will be okay. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 921. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Party of Labour Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Furio Radin, the IDS-PGS-RI Club and the GLAS Advocacy Club. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, and the statement was carried out earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. 1.The amendment of the IDS-PGS-RI Representatives Club was accepted in an amended form as accepted by the applicant, as well as by the 2nd Amendment of Representative Furia Radin, which is identical to Amendment 1 and is accepted by the Proposer. Amendment number 3 The SDP representative club is not accepted by the government and we must vote. Please, let's vote. So this is an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives that the government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Here it comes. So here's the picture now so it's voted 117 of which 38 MPs supported the amendment, 1 was abstention, and 78 was against it. So the amendment didn't get the required number of votes. We are now going to the amendment of the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives, independent representatives, Amendment 4 The government does not accept it, so we must vote. I hope it goes a little faster now. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Now we're a little faster, here it is, 103 total, 26 for, 1 abstention and 76 against. Let's go on, there hasn't been an amendment. We're going to the 5th, the Voice Representatives Club, the government doesn't accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 110 votes, 32 for, 1 abstention and 77 against, so the amendment has not passed. 6th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 115 voted, 32 were for, 2 abstentions and 81 against, so the amendment did not get the required number of votes. And last amendment No. The 7th Amendment of the GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 109 votes, 31 for, 1 abstention and 77 against. I am now giving yes, to the vote Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases and I stress that it is in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS for the adoption of this law require half the majority of all MPs, so let's vote 76. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 117 MPs voted, 80 MPs were for, 21 abstentions and 16 against, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases was passed, most of the votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199620	I'm moving on to the next point, with Mr. Maras' note before you go, that a colleague from your party, Hajdash Doncic, is exactly who I was running the session and that no one was objecting to him, and then you wonder why that is. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Security Act in the field of Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 821 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the proposaler's representative, environment and energy minister, Mr Tomislav Ćoric, want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199621	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Act for ODA research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The main features, i.e. the differences between the final bill's proposal and the first reading, are additionally developed definitions, higher amounts of fines for violations, more precise indication of what is considered to be a conflict of interest within the meaning of this law, the provision of a shorter deadline for the adoption of the Amending Regulation and the additions of the Security Coordination Regulation to coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, as well as additional nomotechnical adjustments to the expressions of certain provisions of the final draft law. As is known, today in the Croatian department there are 20 offshore exploitation platforms of which there are 19 exploiting facilities, which are 2 constantly inhabited buildings, while the rest are automated and one compression plant. Since 1999, natural gas has been produced on these exploitation facilities and there has been no incident throughout the history of exploitation. Also on the northern Adriatic there are 52 wells and 4 directions of dispatch, of which 1 towards the Croatian gas system and 3 towards the Italian. The relevant Law on Safety in Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation has transposed into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia Directive 2013/30 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of offshore oil and gas activities and amending Directive 2004/35 of the European Community, whose provisions relate to the prevention of major accidents during coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The aim of the implementation of this Directive is to minimise the risk of major accidents related to offshore oil and gas activities and to limit their consequences, thereby improving the protection of the marine environment and coastal economies from pollution and establishing minimum conditions for the safe exploration and exploitation of oil and gas and limiting possible interruptions of domestic energy production in the Union. Directive 2013/30 of the European Union was to be implemented in its legislation by Member States with coastal waters which have activities related to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and Member States in which a company engaged in these activities is registered. Given the fact that activities of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation take place in Croatia, the Republic of Croatia had an obligation to transpose the directive. In addition to the scope and number of coastal facilities mentioned, the Republic of Croatia is classified as a group of 1 Member States, more specifically within the most intense group of activities and more than 10 facilities. Finally, the proposal for a law harmonises the responsibilities and obligations of an oil mining economic operator in order to avoid uncertainty and clearer regulation of the response, in the event of possible damage to the environment, in particular in terms of the collection of that same damage. The final draft of the law also harmonizes the appointment of members of the co-ordination for coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Since part of the public authorities responsible for certain areas has been transferred to other public authorities, such as the State Protection and Rescue Authority, as such, there is no longer any business and part-time work attached to the MUP, there is a need for coordination in this regard, which consequently implies the appointment of new members from the public authorities. Moreover, in order to prevent conflicts of interest, a provision has been added to provide that coordination members are not involved in operations related to the economic development of offshore hydrocarbon potentials, the execution of competitions for the issue of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation permits on board and the collection of revenue from the activities of hydrocarbon exploitation research. This law will introduce real deadlines for the handover of oil and mining operators' documents and determines the responsibility of oil and mining operators, as well as the clear determination of the obligations of oil and mining operators, for example in a way that is responsible for the obligation to deliver documents instead of the authorisation authority, the operator or owner, and in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, and thus contributes to the acceleration of the process of assessment of documents and the provisions to determine or regulate the obligations of oil and mining operators when leaving and removing the exploitation of coastal facilities as well as related infrastructures. This law balances the terminology in order to make it comprehensible and unambiguous throughout the law and achieves the harmonisation of the definitions of certain concepts which have been found not to have been fully transposed into the meaning of the terms in question in Directive 2013/30 of the EU. Furthermore, the role of the competent authority in carrying out inspection and investigation of major accidents or other sudden events is more precisely defined, since it is not defined in accordance with other regulations. The subject-law will achieve compliance with the State Administration System Act, as well as with the inspection control provisions resulting from the State Inspectorate Act. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Security Act in the field of Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation has introduced high standards when carrying out activities on board that further emphasise concern and security, for the safety and conservation of the clean environment, and for the purpose of ensuring the status in which we have not had any accidents at sea when carrying out the exploration and exploitation of gas. I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask the honourable MPs and the MPs to support this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199622	The first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199623	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. It's a good thing you pointed out that for the past 20 years we haven't had any incident and pollution on the Adriatic, but I'm interested in the case, God forbid, such pollution, the nearest ship that can repair such damage is in Trieste and it takes several days to get to a certain location. I'm curious, the ministry was planning to maybe even build a boat or get it along with the Adriatic counties, and I'm curious as to where it came from, is that in the plan, and is that going to go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199624	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199625	Thank you very much for asking, Commissioner Bacic. So, yes, it is an idea that has existed for some time, but for the realization of this idea we will wait for a time in which budget or budget users will have a sufficient amount of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199626	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199627	Thank you very much, Minister. The law on research, these changes, on the security of hydrocarbon research, it may be,... Acceptable, however, in Croatia it is strange about the hydrocarbons, here, I will tell you that now in the new spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County there are 9, at 9 musk new plans explored areas,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even in protected areas in the UNESCO area, so it was time to turn to sustainable means, sustainable policies, not policies that we see lead to what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in this crisis it is now shown what counterpart Bacic has now asked. What about this for protection in case of elemental.../incomprehensible/... some kind of accident, like what he just mentioned, where's the nearest ship? So this crisis has shown how many shortcomings we have in our policies so far. So you'd be skeptical about research of the Adriatic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199628	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199629	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj, for your intervention or your replica. However, the research you mentioned in the protected areas is simply not possible. It's the first thesis, and the second, the law that would define it is not the law that is being handled here today, so I'm not sure that you're familiar with the thesis of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199630	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199631	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, so in the age we live in, it's a crown age, it's hard for me to have a question that doesn't exist in the context of the crown. So, we have a hydrocarbon exploitation. I'm interested, in terms of measures related to COVID-19 or Coronavirus, is this further, since you are the Minister and the Protection of Environment and Energy, I assume you have some information whether this exploitation goes further, whether they have problems, how it works, what happens, whether there have already been any demands that have been going towards you, and in terms of concessions that are related to the exploitation fields, was there any kind of disturbance? Because the disorder is evident in all activities, only the question is greater or smaller. I am interested in what happens to exploitation in the context of the current situation and the coronary virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199632	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199633	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: A microphone. Here.]] So I thank you first of all for your question. As far as the hydrocarbon exploitation itself is concerned, in the Republic of Croatia according to the information we have, it goes uninterrupted. Of course, the current moment, i.e. the current price of oil, is a matter of visuality or cost-effectiveness of exploitation at the part of the field, however, let us see how and how the situation will develop in the coming period, and then we will consider, accordingly, the initiatives coming from oil companies towards the ministry. Thank you very much. It is, if you please, their proposals to consider a reduction in concession fees in view of the fact that at the moment these concession fees at the existing price of oil make exploitation invaluable, in part of the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199634	Thank you. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199635	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I will personally support this bill, I think that although it raises some more questions, I think it is essentially good because it works more on security, I will discuss it more in the name of the club, but I think that despite the fact that this debate is not a very good topic right now, because this is a very important topic that we all need to talk about together in two respects. The first importance of Croatia's energy independence, and I think this research is good, good for Croatia and another thing about the security segment. And I think it's very important that what you said didn't happen so far, and this law prescribes exactly what security procedures we're going to be doing, which we're going to be doing if there's some kind of hoax going on. And for me, this is an energy issue, when some people say they're against this as well as health care when they say they're against vaccination. So that's where I would pull one parallel. I think this is very good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199636	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199637	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic, first and foremost on the support of the bill, but also on your debate. I agree with you that the intensity of the Ministry of Energy is of course as a competent ministry, but also our energy companies that should be exactly a reduction in the dependence of the Republic of Croatia. And in this context and context, the exploitation of our natural potential, of course with respect to the highest environmental or environmental standards, is something that seems to be an understandable step. I am also holding it together and I agree with you that this bill further strengthens that safety component. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199638	Thank you, too. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199639	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, so my question is about current trends in the hydrocarbon market, we see that the fuel price has fallen, and this is a trend that has been present in the world market for the past few months. I'm curious, however, you've probably been doing some projections, how you see the impact of that on the state budget, or on the planned revenues from excise duties and VAT that was coming here. We know this crisis is particularly interesting in that part. Fuel is cheap, but citizens travel very little and keep their homes and homes and on the other hand fuel is cheap and those who buy have less, less excise duties and less VAT. And another thing you live in Zagreb, I don't know how you comment on the situation where we see uncontrollable and inefficient waste of garbage on every corner of the City of Zagreb. Still after three weeks of the earthquake, the city seems to be full of silence and bricks, so I'm interested as a minister who cares about environmental protection, are you able to send some inspection to do some reconnaissance on what this situation is like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199640	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199641	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, first of all, on matters since we didn't refer to the law. As for the reduction in energy prices, or above all oil, but also the fact that lockdown economies as you yourself have stated brings in themselves less economic activity, and therefore transport. This will inevitably lead to a reduction in payments through excise duties or a tax on additional value in the state budget, we cannot escape from it. What we hope is that the first quarter of this year will not be significantly affected, however, 4 months will inevitably lead to a significant reduction in tax revenues and a deficit created in the state budget. That's what all of the world's economies, because they're all affected by this crisis, are going to have to count. As regards the problem of waste disposal from the City of Zagreb or inspection supervision and action, any legal or natural person in the Republic of Croatia may call for inspection at any location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199642	Thank you, too. And finally Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199643	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we from HSS welcome the adoption of this law because it is a tool for the state to protect our sea on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to encourage the development, research and energy independence of the Republic of Croatia through economic activity. But it's a matter of law enforcement on the ground, control and control mechanisms so that we don't happen to have a quality tool without controlling its notice. It is certain that you will work through other sublegal acts and through the control on the ground through the competent authorities of the public, and it is certain that this should be monitored. And secondly, the coronary crisis has also affected the energy sector, and so INA MOL has fired a very large number of workers in Sisak-Moslavina County in Bjelovar-Biogorska on separate plants as a technological surplus. Do you know about it and whether it can be intervened that it is not happening because they are not as affected by the crisis as other activities, and it would be time to discuss that part of the income of local self-government units for affected amounts of hydrocarbons because it is certain that the revenues of the local self-government unit will fall due to the income tax that has been reduced, so it would be time to start talking to INO to pay more compensation for the use of the quantity affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199644	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. Thank you for your trip. The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199645	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, first of all, to refer to the first part of your presentation, I would like to thank you for supporting this legal framework. As regards the second part of your presentation, or the one concerning the concession fees themselves, if I am not mistaken in the last period, there has been a certain change in favour of local self-government units. At this point, the trend, or price on the market, is such a hydrocarbon, specifically oil, and this has been referred to by the esteemed representative Mrak Taritash, if I am not mistaken, is such that any concession fee is in fact to those who exploit the problem or its payment and in fact raises the cost-effectiveness of such projects. And I'm not sure this is the best time to talk in that direction to increase any compensation because I say simply then the job itself doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199646	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Branko Bacic to speak for the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Security Act in Excellent Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons at the HDZ Club. Before that, I will say that we as the HDZ Representatives' Club, then on behalf of the MPs' Club in 2015, were against this same law. Against the reason that he first came a post-festum. It was then done after the government launched a non-transparent, illegal competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. And then after all the conditions were prescribed that were to be met by oil-mining economic operators, where their rights and obligations were prescribed, if they were to go into research, and then later the exploitation of hydrocarbons. And this law was practically a dead letter on paper. And then we disputed it for such formal reasons, I would say, because the law is good, and for reasons that have not already been prescribed some of the things now with the right ministry, i.e. the government proposed to fit into this law, which is the responsibility of an oil-mind economic operator, which, according to the old law, would almost always be exculpatory of any responsibility because coordination was doing an assessment of the possible occurrence of a particular haemataria, damage, environmental disaster, and then that responsibility would have to be determined whether the good measures were prescribed or perhaps the fault for it was on the oil and mining economic operator and then we argued and now this law clearly prescribed it. Then we didn't do that... It is good and I support it again, it is that someone cannot participate in the process of issuing a license for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and later be a member of the coordination which in a certain way oversees this same procedure and it is a classic conflict of interest and therefore I absolutely support it from that side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm going to say what I think needs to be said in this law, this law is based on two laws. On the one hand, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, on the other hand, is the Mining Act. In order for us to come up with research opportunities, and then eventually to exploit hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, there must be a defined field of exploitation. According to the Mining Act, we know what an exploitation field is, it must be prescribed by a competent space-planned document and have a location permit. At this moment in the Republic of Croatia, except for the fields that are now in the north of the Adriatic, where gas exploitation is carried out, we cannot approach any competition and public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. For several reasons, the first reason is that no county spatial plan that is in force for the coastal counties in Croatia, which has in front of it in territorial or ZERP, protected ecological and fishing belt, in its spatial plans, which... whose reach to the end of the territorial sea is 22 km, i.e. 12 miles from the coast or from the coastal islands, is not provided for an exploitation field for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the only way to do this is to explore and exploit hydrocarbons later, in the outside of the territorial sea to half of the Adriatic, where the border of our protected ecological-fishing belt is, or the border of the epicontinental belt. However, at this point, according to the Law on Spatial Planning, it is envisaged that as state spatial plans in Croatia, a state spatial development plan, which has not yet been adopted, for which the Government has set out in the procedure, has made a decision on its design, and it is, however, for each commendation, we have extended the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Arrangement of the time limits for the adoption of the ZERP spatial plan and the epicontinental belt. As we know,... The supply of hydrocarbons is located in an epicontinental belt, so beneath the underground, sea underground, at depths of 60 to 1500 metres, depends on where and how the depth of the exploration and exploitation takes place, but the mining site itself, the platform is located in the ZERP, on a protected ecological-fishing belt, or on a column of water that is above the epicontinental belt and is on the surface of that belt and it is on the surface of that belt, or on the surface of the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to approach research, the sea, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, we have to bring in a spatial plan of the epicontinental belt to define the exploitation field, we don't have that plan. And on the other hand, to create and set up a platform for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which we did not inherit as, I don't know, Marica 1 or as they are already called, 2, platforms on the northern Adriatic. We need to bring in a state plan for ZERP. Therefore, once these plans have been adopted, then the hands of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be fully open to the public tendering process for hydrocarbon research and exploitation and it is good to do so. Why? Because when we adopt both plans, we will have to make a strategic assessment... Strategic evaluation...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought the time was up, I watch, I see it isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, you're going to have to bring a strategic impact assessment to the environment for hair we've advocated and as a club of HDZ advocates 5 years ago, the government, then the government made it clean forms doing it in a very short time without any procedures provided for by law, and therefore this procedure that was then done was missing, non-transparent, we then wrote as a club of advocates about the role of the government in that single procedure, etc., etc. So this law is the assumption that we should enter into a normal, normal transparent, legal procedure for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Croatia, but in order to really fit this process and go into research, and then exploitation, we need to have an exploitation field, we need to have a locational permit for both the field and the mining facility, we need to do all of these advances that I mentioned earlier, and then we can talk about research and exploitation. And we've said many times at the HDZ Representatives' Club that we have nothing against the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, but that we agree on gas exploration and exploitation. Given that according to the research done, they were then done by the company Spectrum from Norway and collected that documentation according to my knowledge, or the government that enabled them to do so, it then left the possibility that the company still has that data, some of them have INA. So, this procedure that I said was non-transparent, but from it we could determine that above all in the middle and north of the Adriatic is talking about... gas supplies, and that possibly on the southern Adriatic is talking about possible oil supplies. We'd be very careful here, because it's already about a mile or two hundred meters deep, and at these depths, hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation is the most complex technological process in the world at all, and there's not one so demanding technological process since the extraction of oil at depths over a thousand meters. So he would remind himself that exactly the biggest ecological disaster occurred in the Gulf of Mexico on an investigative platform, not on the exploitation of the problem of depletion, when research came upon large amounts of oil after which the entire Gulf of Mexico was almost polluted. I think the damage has been numbered and the British Petroleum has paid for the damage of over six billion dollars, that for a long, long time there is no longer any possibility of fishing or maricculture in that part and that it will take a long time until that bay and that location is restored as a clean marine environment. And that's why we need to be very careful, careful when we approach research, especially the exploitation of hydrocarbons, especially if we know that there's oil at these depths and we're going into oil exploitation. In this sense, this Law is necessary, good, it is one of the tools that we can even come into this process of research and exploitation, therefore we will support it in the club for this reason and because it simply assumes any approach to quality, safe research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199648	Now, Mrs. Anka, Mrs. Dark Taritash, will speak in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199649	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers with associates. And I can name the names and last names of the MPs who still have. Let me introduce a little something about the debate our vice president had with a respected colleague so he said the deal was that it had to be. It's not about having to be two per club, it's about being the best I can be. And this is not the consequence of the crown, but the consequence of the afternoon and the consequence of the interest in a particular topic. Well, then when the topic's hot, then there's more of us, and when it's a subject that's awkward, then there's a little less of us and the 28 of us that need to be nice for a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199650	Tell Mrs. Dark Tarrits how many of us are there at that moment, please? Let's get it on the record. Along with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199651	At this point along with you, one, two, three, four, five.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199652	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199653	But it's nothing out of the ordinary, we spoke less and in another term. So, as far as we're concerned in GLAS and myself personally, this subject is very interesting to me. I must admit that in the context of the virus's corona last time something was from Minister Coric's portfolio, it was climate change, that's what we had last. And it seems to me that it was in another world, in another time and another story where you were in Brussels at the time, so we used this opportunity to call you why you're in Brussels and you're not here. At that time it was a topic of climate change, which will be with climate change. Think about it, so it wasn't that long ago, it was maybe a month and a half ago, and to me it looks like it was in another time, in another world, in another story, because now everything we're saying, we're talking about in the context of the crown. But I believe deeply, and I have to believe, because otherwise we'd all be depressed together collectively, that the day after. That he would come a day later and that when we would have to be ready for other things and other stories. So I'm going to go with this law that's the Security Act on excellent exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation. There are some situations that happen equally regularly to you, and when you're in opposition then you attack something, then you come to power or position, then you have to defend it too. I, according to this Law, and according to the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons, have the same attitude before and now, and I will have a future. First I'm going to talk about the law, then the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. This Law defines exactly what his name tells him about security in the coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. He's talking about protecting the environment, talking about protecting space, talking about the way it's supposed to be done, talking about what can happen in certain things, talking about the procedure that has to be respected. What can please us that really since 1999, when we have wells, it has not happened to us We of course experience our Adriatic Sea not only as a natural resource for the development of tourism, we experience it partially and as an economic resource not only in terms of fishing, but also in terms of the exploitation of the hydrocarbons we have. And you can see now some satellite footage so that you can see the ratio of that Italian part and our part, so you can see that disproportionately, it's about as low as they're exploiting it. But the Adriatic Sea, to be fair to the end and a small bay compared to the world's sea and to the world's story and to the general waters of the Mediterranean, we are a small bay. So when we get one serious haemorrhea, we'd have serious problems because it's all happening to us in one small space. In terms of climate change, for example, I was very interested in this former life that was not so long ago and I hope that it will be in a future where we can discuss it more, data, let's say, the Adriatic Sea is the coldest, coldest part of the Mediterranean Sea in terms of the temperature we have, in terms of the changes that are and so on. But so much for that. Therefore, we at the GLAS Club will support these amendments and additions to the law, so all that goes in terms of increasing security, in terms of increasing and some conditions, is well supported and it is good that we have it defined by law and thank God that we do not have to use it because at the first moment when we have to use this law and all that is, we will be in a problem that will require both great financial engagement and everything else. And that topic that, of course, is always your call to the siren, that no matter when we discuss this, and in our first reading, we discussed the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and now Bačić, a colleague who discussed on behalf of the HDZ Club, spent most of his time on the subject of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. We, when the law was passed, are talking about the Law on Spatial Planning in 2013, then that law was defined as having to adopt a state spatial plan. In terms of spatial planning, we here have parliamentary representatives who understand so much about it. I already sort of dare to discuss some issues, but very carefully because I never want to say things that are so transparent, I hear a little bit in the hallway, so I come. I'm a space planner by my evolution, and that's something that I've been doing my favorite thing in my life. Croatia has a long tradition of spatial planning. Croatia had a spatial plan of the former Socialist Republic of Croatia, that's what it was called, and then we're there in '91. All those cards of yours, the "S" one with the white painted paint, which was a good spatial plan. The spatial plan was planned by both land and sea. We were one of the few states that planned peace and peace. I have had the opportunity in my working life and in some other countries to be, therefore, not just neighbouring countries that are, in Hungary where I boasted about this second tradition of spatial planning in Croatia, as it goes back to the 1960s. I was also in northern Germany and where I boasted about this tradition of sea planning, so Croatia had planned the sea. Now, it seems to me that it would be very good if we already had a state-owned spatial plan, I think it could be done, but it's on the soul of those who run that resort, so I'll decide to go slow. A major dispute and a major debate has always been about planning space intended for research and planning space intended for exploitation. That's two different things. You're researching to see if there's any potential, to install an economic factor and element, and to decide beyond that on the field of exploitation. You often don't even know where to investigate in phase one. Or by some kind of map they were, you might know. The following may happen to you, that you have a spatial field intended for research. You can't have in that spatial plan and the field intended for exploitation until you investigate, you don't know what's for exploitation. So after research you have to go with a change of spatial plan and predict a spatial, so the part that will be for exploitation, which is always narrower than that for research. You can find through research that your economic elements, that your technical solutions are so expensive, so complicated, and so requires a lot that you will never come for exploitation. Equally, in terms of the share of the crown, it is essential, but I think it is always, at this point, the moment in which Croatia should know, in terms of the economy, what kind of Croatia we think we should have in 2050. Sometimes, one purpose rules out another purpose. We used to, through a strategic impact assessment of the environment we should work for the entire Adriatic, of course, it's a cross-border impact, you have this other one. You should see what that potential of the Adriatic is, what in the Adriatic can have. How many exploitations can we have, how many Adriatic Seas are suffering, it's back on the subject that the Adriatic is one closed, actually one small bay in terms of all these world seas, even in terms of the Mediterranean Sea. So there's a few things that are very sensitive. I will never define myself and say no to exploitation. Not research. But sometimes you have to evaluate, maybe this exploitation, research, it's a greater shame that you have it than you don't have it. So it's this nice job of spatial planners that lasts for years and in one And you're always asking yourself if you've got a good plan. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199654	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and Let's Change Croatia will speak to the esteemed representative Damjan Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199655	A few months ago in this assembly during my speech I threw into the trash your Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for a simple reason because it is not there. It was similar in 2009 when you brought in the strategy for the next 11 years, and for the first year you gave up building a nuclear power plant that was the cornerstone of your strategy. That means that for the next 10 years, you've actually been running one senseless strategy. Otherwise, we can only dream about energy independence, and the only strategy this government has is the borrowing strategy, and in your borrowing strategy in your sales strategy we are advocating. And here we are at the very top, unlike the devastating last places we have for most of the statistics. The government can only boast that it is very well managed by this country when it comes to the interests of large companies and other countries. And our country's interests and our citizens' interests are in direct conflict with political careers and plans for their own wealth. Croatia has become a sleazy colony, and any true colony needs to exhaust all the natural resources we have for the sake of foreign, foreign interest. Resources such as oil and gas in Croatia are relatively well preserved and are the basis of our potential independence for which the Living Wall stands. Unfortunately, our hydrocarbon reserves are not deliberately strategic, as is not the strategic INA that has been criminally sold to Hungarians with damages of billions of kuna per year. If the Croatian judiciary had worked, someone would have punished Hungarians working without a work permit and annuled Sanader and Hernadia's agreement at the very beginning. If you put this kind of intensity into renewable energy, we'd be among the best, not the last in Europe. Citizens, last year the government sold to foreigners our continental Croatia for oil and gas exploration and exploitation. And from that sale, what did Croatia get? All municipalities can count on a couple of 10 million kunas a year. The character will receive a ridiculous 400 kuna per km2, the state budget will make a few billion kunas a year from future exploitation. And for a resource worth hundreds of times more, a resource that will be used by pipelines to go to Germany or Hungary. I worked at a refinery in Rijeka and worked at a refinery in Sisak on modern isomerization facilities. In a refinery in Sisak, MOL falsifies financial reports showing the refinery as losers in order to demonstrate invaluability of production and to be able to close it and transfer production to another country such as Hungary. That's what we met the DORH two years ago. Oil processing is no longer in Croatia where it would bring money through employment and co-operatives, and even this government has ensured the destruction of Ina's plants to minimally process oil there, and every few talk about the closure of these refineries. And oil exploited in Croatia is no longer Croatia. And it's a lie that the rulings tell us how this provides domestic needs. The oil is owned by foreign oil companies and they sell it to the best buyer, the oil is no longer Croatian. And the worst part is that research and exploitation will be done by a method of hydraulic fractionation. If this continues to allow, Slavonia will look like Erin Brokovic's movie because there is a real danger of permanently poisoning the drinking groundwater with such a method. That's why, gentlemen, many countries have banned hydraulic fractures, pies in yours, in our country, there's no price in our Slavonia. And you not only gave her the price but you allowed it for change. And now we're coming up with a new Security Act in the Coastal Research and Exploitation of Carbons, a law that is primarily passed at a time of crisis caused by the Coronation Virus. All other topics other than the Crown are currently secondary and this is the ideal time to pass laws that will be the cornerstone of the shameful sale of resources hidden beneath our sea. This law requires a ruling elite to sell concessions both at sea and provide additional research to foreigners, and in a few years of exploitation. And what does Croatia get? Nothing important wins, except that we get a small percentage of the profit we sell our energy independence and we get a constant fear of sea pollution. The exploitation of hydrocarbons can therefore be seen from several aspects, economic, financial and environmental protection issues. The living wall has long warned that we are a country based on tourism. We can rightly be in fear of attack by a shark, oil spilling, terrorist attack or even a virus like the crown in any of these cases Croatia will experience an economic and economic collapse and debt that will throw us into total poverty. Similar ideas about this law were held in 2015 by Minister of Milanovic's government, Ivan Vrdoljak, who said that oil in the sea would make Croatia a new Norway. Ivan divisor Vrdoljak and there he ran a campaign of deception. A small closed Adriatic Sea cannot be compared to the Norwegian Sea. In the 2015 campaign, Norwegian platforms are 3 hours away from land helicopters, and Vrdoljak wanted to drill already 2 km from the coast. Even if that oil is the best in the world, the people don't want it. In 2015, citizens made it clear that they wanted tourism and fishing, and not oil. It's not worth it for a little oil to jeopardize a lot of tourism. And then we listen to HDZ Minister Tomislav Coric, the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, who deceives the public with phrases that it is necessary to explore the amount of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea but how questionable the exploitation itself. Citizens, be assured that if a foreign oil company gets a concession for research, it also gets it for exploitation. The Croatian Adriatic is ready for sale if we allow it. The question of an accident has not been resolved yet. What will Croatia react to in case of major oil spills? We don't have those capacities. And relying on international assistance is unserious. What about tourism? Every year, we look forward to an ecological incident, and statistics tell us it will happen. Whatever protection measures we'll have then. And then when that happens, we can put the key in the lock, leave the politicians to make their own laws, pay themselves and the party's listeners incarcerated and based on the increasing debt of the state, while most of their people are displaced outside the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199656	We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, I think, please. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. In fact, Mr. Vucelic made so many incorrect claims, he made information that it would take half an hour to defuse it. But only one Mr. Vucelic, you said that Croatia did not meet the quota for the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption, not to fill it, but at the very top with 28%. The EU average is 18%, and we should have had 20% of this year. It's just one of the many lies that you brought out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199658	Thank you very much. Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you not to abuse that institution. Because someone's telling the truth or the truth, by someone else, I can't tell if it's true or not true, if it's something smart, if it's something stupid, it's not for me to judge. It is on our voters to evaluate, therefore, those categories do not naturally enter the category of violations of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure and I pray that something we do not think is true, that it is a lie, that it is a meal, anything, that we do not use that institute. Okay. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I'll be brief, given that between the first and second readings of this law there are no significant changes other than those of the nomotechnical and, as a rule, on the proposal of the Legislative Committee, where the text of the law is nomotechnically arranged. I can only repeat as in the first reading that was made on 22 January of this year, so about 2 months ago, 2 and a half months ago, so that this law was not passed under some coverage of the Croatian public, in some strange circumstances, but in some regular procedure, and between these two procedures, what happened to us happened to us. So that's why it's clean. Anyway, the SDP's Club supports this law and these changes in this law, we, I will not speak here in detail for 10 minutes like, before me colleague Branko Bačić because as a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, I am constantly holding the same attitude, both in position and in opposition, so in 2015 I was for this law and today I am for this law, unlike my colleagues Bačić, who was then against so normally has to talk a lot today to explain why he changed his mind. We in the SDP support every solution that contributes to greater security, protection of the environment and all that leads to nature conservation in this important topic, which is Croatia's energy independence and we think in the SDP as one responsible political option that Croatia should not be the last on these issues and that we should not act as a sacred cow and that, for example, we are not dealing with hydrocarbon research in our Adriatic, and let's say the Montenegrins are doing it right next to us, or the Italians on the other hand, on an even bigger scale, and in fact the sea is common, but the question is who on which side is investigating, who will benefit from it. If we weren't there, I'd say, suckers and don't use their chance at the expense of others, because, if we happen to have some kind of nightmare that would pollute the Adriatic Sea, then it doesn't matter whether it happened on the Croatian part or on the Italian part, then all of us who share this beautiful sea, the most beautiful in the world, are killed. And that's why it's supposed to be brought to me even by this kind of legal solution that's not ideal, so there's a bunch of loose ends here and a bunch of open questions. But I think at this point this is a good proposal that will regulate most of the procedure, administration, and even those procedures that happen in the case, don't give God any trouble, but also raise that security level to the highest possible step, if that's what I can say. Here, mostly, I wouldn't last much longer since I was talking about this in my first reading, there are no significant differences between first and second readings, so once again, the SDP Representatives Club will support this proposal. I'll tell you one more time who's in the tail for the end. So this question and this fama should we, should we be against it, should we not explore our seas, tourism, the Adriatic is just like me in medical rank whether we should vaccinate ourselves and our children. Yes, of course we do, and we need to do this because we need to explore the area we live in and get the maximum benefit for the country and for our citizens out of it. But we have to do this responsibly, transparently and according to certain criteria. I think this law is one step towards it, and that's why we're going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199660	Thank you very much. The next club is a representative of that bridge of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199661	Thank you very much. Secretary, distinguished colleagues. Here, as far as security is concerned, of course we'll all support security in hydrocarbon research. But should we trust everything we prescribe from the European directives, I don't think we should. I can state the law, we said everything in this law. I can give you examples. In order to deal with sustainable development, to leave fossil fuels for future generations, so as not to draw now, we are talking about the Adriatic, but this is happening both in Dinara and in karst areas, research fields and ecocids of various kinds. Which is why I doubt everything that's being brought in from the Ministry of the Environment can give you more examples. So the first example is waste management where Vrgorec is still being sent, I'm sorry that the minister went, I couldn't get through the replica to tell him, from, that we would show Europe how we met certain criteria of waste management. Certain landfills that have the same sanitary conditions have been suspended at random by all in the Republic of Croatia. So, now from Vrgorac it's actual whether to transport garbage to Sinj 120 km in old trucks, which damages the environment, oil trucks, old ones, turns out to be municipal waste from those trucks and 120 km in one direction on the highway is threatened by this and this safety in traffic, being transported to the waste dump of Mojenko in Sinj. I stopped it and again, I will not prevent it, but I stopped, of course, that the police in a democratic state could move me away, but I got in the way and it didn't delay, nor will I allow it, nor will the citizens allow it. First of all, we defend people from the Vrgorjek area who will pay 3 times, 4 more expensively for their waste disposal, and secondly, it can't be a disposal can the same, a waste dump with the same sanitary conditions in the Cetina region where it is, we know what the Cetina province of Cetina and everything else is instead of real waste management. So, as far as the hydrocarbons are concerned, we had a strong company, which is what counterpart Djujic mentioned earlier, this security, i.e., is very important for the safety of the Republic of Croatia and energy security and sustainability. However, we know how it treated companies owned, the largest energy-owned company, that's the INA that's been sold for Judine's proteges, i.e. given in hand, not even sold, given in the hands of Hungarian owners without a grain of gunpowder, and that's something, we gave them management rights regardless of what, they didn't, they weren't majority owners, we gave them management rights for a handful of damage to certain party leaders back then, then it was HDZ. However, the fact that in political energy independence, INA sales began to mean SDP with white eyes, i.e. then Minister Linic Slavko, and ended HDZ, and this government is definitely i.e. And this assembly majority put the last coffin in the nail when we gave the entire management rights. We have voted that those members of the INA administration have neither the right nor the voice. So much so that as far as protecting national interests are concerned, I don't believe it here, and now we see that everything that is needed by the Republic of Croatia, in this case, the coronaryvirus, that sustainable development is very important. Sustainable development in the energy sector about what we're talking about is very important. It is good to know those potentials and capacities that we have, but we have sources that we can turn to other sources of energy, it's from solar energy that we use 0.3% while other EU countries average 5%. Europe 5%, even Finland and other countries that have much less sunny days i.e. You don't know when the night is in those countries, there's much more to it than sunlight, we don't use it. We have largely accepted the game of Vrdoljak's Minister at the time where we are wind power plants that are renewable energy sources, but ultimately they are not the ones owned by the Republic of Croatia, the only thing that gives him good money is the pockets of our citizens for renewable sources when we pay for electricity, the pockets are well swept out, and the profits go back to foreign owners. So we have capacity and potential, this is about hydrocarbons, about safety. Of course, the EU, i.e. This Directive, which we prescribe from the EU already implemented in 2013, has already been implemented in certain EU Member States. I don't see any reason why we don't implement it, although it'll be just a dead letter on paper, the safety of these investigative areas. However, the minister was wrong here when I mentioned to him that the Split-Dalmatia County is in a proposal for a spatial plan, there are 9 explored areas on the Adriatic, there is apple entrance, around the island of Apple, Visa, Palagruza and that is the plan in the new spatial plan, I did not invent it. So new investigative areas, and these research areas are even in the part where the meanings of the area of the Supreme Archipelago which has been, meaning which has been since 2019. in UNESCO, under UNESCO protection. So, we have here, I have a mistrust, a colleague earlier opened the question of what if there is now a disaster on the Adriatic, that the ship is some oil, some disaster that will endanger the Adriatic, how long it takes for them to resuscitate. We have one ship in Trieste, we don't have our own protection at all, until the ship comes from Trieste and that, it's a private ship, so it's one procedure huge, so that would mean this whole area of our coast is contaminated, and we know what our coast represents. Now we see in this one, we're going to see now the consequences of that because we based everything on tourism alone. Our tourism was not an additional value, our tourism was everything, which means it was the wrong policy, it wasn't agriculture and other our agricultural potentials and energy, of course, but tourism. And of course it's the environment, sustainable development. But I don't see any reason to peek except what this will be like on paper, there are laws written, regulations, directives that we've adopted hundreds and hundreds and at the end of the term, of course the president of the assembly will say we've passed so many regulations, statistical indicators. But in reality, it's not like that. In reality, we plan on in the softest areas, the most protected areas that would be the most protected areas such as the Lečevica area and the Dalmatian mountain area, we plan a waste management centre no matter what we have problems now, Cili Split, most of the Split swimming pool has problems because Jadro is behind every major rain, this water is not for drinking. So, major damages have already been done to our environment, and it will be a huge problem in the long term because of what exactly the Ministry of the Environment doesn't do and so on in all our areas, not only at sea, in the protection of rivers, in Zrmanja we still have a problem, we had a problem where we should, the Environmental Protection Fund is long ago to resuscitate Zrmanja and there was money but Mladneo was then here this fund, the money is gone who knows whose pockets and the problem is not solved. Oil, lube, whatever. And today we have a problem with Zrmanja, we have a problem with lagoon, I brought here a bottle, on the river Krka, where literally from Knin, from Tvik's factory, today's Divova, this company literally goes to the national park, when the rains go to the national park, these harmful oils go. Literally endangered our drinking water. About the river Cetina's harmful thermal power plant and the harmful things that have tribald, i.e. I won't even talk about it. So, at this point, we have a huge problem. But I'm sorry the minister left, I've read this law and I know what it's all about, but otherwise he's underestimating with the tallest he's only saying what I know, the only thing I'm taking off his hat, I'm sorry what, and tell him the secretaries for naming people, for example. in Krka National Park and in court he lost, he named a person who has a party card at the same time as HNS and HDZ, and on the other hand was a person who is a Croatian defender who has a better professional qualification of Ljiljana Zmijanović and has not passed, but in court is the boredom of all executions and administrative courts, all is the minister of execution, so much defends this art within these structures, regardless of what the lady has the status of defenders, and that there is no better qualification than the appointed means of candidate who names. And he named those people. Therefore, the minister is not concerned with environmental protection but is much more important to Dujic, the president of the HDZ of Sibenik-Knin County, who is important, whom he said must be named. That's why things happen to us that today we have 70% of the people infected from Split-Dalmatia County due to The nursing home. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199662	Thank you. Now we'll continue the individual debate. The first will be the respected representative of Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199663	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues are before us as we have heard from the Minister, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Security in Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation, as the time of the debate is short, I will try only to mention the most important part of what I think everyone should know, what the public should hear and how useful these changes and complements are, how useful it will be to our economic operators, but ultimately, by filling the budget and citizens themselves. So we must stress these amendments and additions are made mainly for the purposes of the transposition of the European Parliament and Council directive on oil and gas activities in the coastal areas, normally it also provides for itself to act in the event of major accidents, prevention and gains of the fields of exploitation itself. Why is it important for Croatia? Because we are when we look at the EU level, but I mean beyond that, a country that has over 10 objects of this group and we enter the first group of Member States so that the directive directly applies to us. So in total, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we have 20 offshore facilities, platforms, of which 19 exploiting objects, 2 permanent dwellings, and the rest are automated. One compression plant. We also have a second tradition of exploiting the Adriatic itself, especially the gas of '99, and as far as the rest of the wells are concerned, I think since 1917, the first, first oil- and gas-related exploitation sites have been found on the mainland. It should be emphasized what the minister himself initially pointed out that in the last 20 years, we have not had any major pollution or some accident on our part of the Adriatic, so it definitely encourages us, and this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, and these changes and additions are also going to be done in this and in an infringing way, as well as the conditions that oil and economic operators will have to meet in order to exploit the hydrocarbon in the Adriatic. A good part of the article 10 is related to these amendments and additions, which is precisely this coordinating body. the co-ordination for safety in the coastal research to which it has been transferred, to which the body has been transferred precisely responsibility related to oil and mining exploitation. And normally what we mentioned about the Legislative Committee itself, but between the first two readings what the INA itself mentioned something had adopted, something refused. I'm going to move on to this more important part since we don't have much time, I only have two minutes left. I think we can safely say everything that goes into research on the Adriatic, today's technology can almost 100% predict what it will find in the immediate type of drilling. I agree with colleagues before me who have mentioned one thing is to exploit the gas, another thing is to exploit the oil. We don't need to see that in Montenegro and our neighbouring countries going a little bit into extremes. We just have to take the fact that in the Italian part of the Adriatic is 1,358 research wells, and in the Croatian part I am 133, there is more than 110 production gas wells and 38 oil wells active in the Italian part, while as far as the Croatian part of the Adriatic is concerned, there are only 38 and only gas wells. So only one Italy has five times the production. The risks are normally high, but this is exactly the kind of directives and these changes and additions of laws that contribute to preventing and reducing risks, of course we manage them and then we need to see only how to achieve the best risk ratio and economic profit itself. I would end up thinking before this law, what we should do first and before any sublegal acts and before any coordinating bodies and their establishment, I think is the main emphasis on that ship. Our part of the Adriatic can cover such an expert and quality ship. Unfortunately, the one at our disposal is in Trieste. I personally know here also through the Split-Dalmatia County and our assembly and our mayor that we have sent the first proposal to both the Ministry and the Government themselves to help and to join our Adriatic counties and to obtain such a boat, so I believe, here is when this pandemic and all the problems pass. We're about to go out and get a boat like that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199664	We have a replica of the respected representative, Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199665	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I think that what you have mentioned at the very end of your presentation is precisely what you have mentioned, so this one ship is very important and maybe it is a solution for the county to join the coastal so that they can get one ship, although I don't think there should be a problem for the state to get such a boat, and perhaps even to build one of the Croatian shipyards that are already left. Of course with those components that we say, we can't introduce it to Croatia, so I think there would be one general benefit for the Croatian economy and for shipbuilding, and I think that with our experience, you've said for yourself when it dates back to our research experience, that I don't speak in the former state when INA was doing research and all over other countries and the Middle East and some of them that have there, so we have a long tradition of experts in our country who certainly have something to say about this, so it's certainly not our foreign topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199666	Honorable representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199667	Thank you, Vice President. Hey, buddy, thanks for the line. I couldn't agree more with you. We must commend only one section of a particular DVD, a coastal fireman who has already acquired certain ships and has begun to specialize precisely in pollution at sea, but I believe roofly that by looking only at the Split Shkver and several other major shipyards. We have a long tradition of making specialized ships, so one like this, I don't think a Split square would be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199668	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199669	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here's a very short one, although I didn't think so, but you gave me some space with this last replica of yours. So, I'm going to mention the same DVDs that are in my county, the DVD Rab that has acquired one vessel that in the event of some kind of threat can put out the fire so that it draws out the sea and in fact, it is unlimited water, and in times when it does not threaten that vessel, it is bought, I mean bought by the town of Rab, and this vessel when it does not threaten the fire, then it uses for, a communal enterprise uses it for the disposal of waste in the inaccessible coves of the island of Rab where it can't even come on foot, so it has one benefit and an economic calculation and economic cost-effectiveness, but this is a good example, an example of joint cooperation of the city, a community which, in fact, through its communal companies must care for its territory and the security of citizens, so that, so let's say and okay, this is now one specific situation, this ship cannot be served just for which is always to find some financial investment, and most of which is possible, and most of which is possible. What I reported for was basically, and I forgot to mention in the debate on behalf of the club, which is this coordination. So, I just want to mention and emphasize one more time, and I mentioned it in my first reading. This law gives little more space to this coordination, not less than much more space to this coordination but so far and in its opening presentation, the minister mentioned that it would be made up of experts and, top experts and in fact professional people who should do so. And here I want to put an emphasis on it here and I urge it to really be so because it's no good when, say, no matter what political option, that I don't now be, I don't know, attacking HDZ, but it's not good when it's politically humanised in some places that have to be strictly professional. And that's what we see best in the example of this pandemic when basically our health workers who are carriers of activities in the fight against coronaryvirus are basically real people in the right place. So it's not politics that no. One that makes some decisions and that's how it has to be. So here, once again, I want to go public here, last time, the same thing I was told, although I was skeptical that it might be politicized by that body, which would not be good, the last time I was warned, or warned, I was told that it would certainly not be so, but that it would be a purely professional body that would only deal with professional matters and make professional decisions based on professional activities. So here, once again, I wanted to put an emphasis on this issue through an individual debate, in essence, because I think it is extremely important to mention it and not allow it together to be politicised, independently of today-to-morrow, which will be the government in a few months and which policy options, these bodies must be independent and exclusively professional. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199670	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199671	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you've made a good point. I just need to emphasize that in art. 10 The composition of the coordination itself is just mentioned, but also this part in the explanation that the European Commission has just warned that it is careful about the conflict of interest of those members and representatives of certain agencies and other public bodies that will be in the coordination itself. I must stress that this is why the articles themselves state that coordination members do not participate in business related to economic development, precisely that potential, implementation, competition, licensing, collection of income, management of these revenues, works related to design, construction, etc., so that it is precisely those items of conflict of interest that no one who has such an interest in an exploiting field or tomorrow may not be in that coordinating body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199672	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199673	My colleague Bačić, he can't be directly, but he can be from behind as he said in the media. So we all know, we all do politics. We know that regardless of what's prescribed it can be one way or another, whatever it says and because of it, but then we don't have the instruments, so if the law isn't in harm's way. We have a bunch of cases in the Republic of Croatia where, in my opinion, there's a conflict of interest in, in, in, in. So, especially at the local level, but by law he is not a conflict of interest because the Law on conflict of interest did not include him. I will mention an example of the president of city and municipal councils in, in, in, in the Republic of Croatia. They're not covered by that law at all. So no action they're doing in the Republic of Croatia can be a conflict of interest because it's not in the law. The same thing is, I don't know, with company executives who don't even get into that story, I'm local. The directors of the tourist communities can certainly be in conflict of interest and a bunch of them are, so regardless of what is prescribed, it is not all covered and there is always space, but then the only word we can fight to make it not so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199674	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199675	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, here we are during this debate, and throughout today we have the situation we have in HS. There are currently 5 of us in the assembly of MPs, all the other benches are empty, and another SDP representative cannot enter because of the amazing rules imposed by President Jandrokovic and which defacto cast out by the Rules of Procedure HS mockery and the institution of HS mockery, so it is almost impossible to discuss in a quality way both this and these other laws that we have on the agenda because it simply makes it impossible for MPs to participate in the debate. I don't see any problem with all SDP deputies coming in right now because 40 seats, chairs in HS would be enough for everyone to be interested if they were admitted to come because otherwise we don't have more than 40 MPs, so on the other hand, I'd ask you to do that. a comment on the matter. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199676	Thank you very much. First of all, it's not about the subject, of course. And secondly, I have to correct you here, it wasn't President Jandrokovic's decision, it was the decision of the presidency where he was also a representative of your club, and that agreement was reached while we were in the building of the INA and was decided to re-session of the presidency that was the day before yesterday to continue this week, and then to make proposals and then to have the presidency back on Friday or, either on Monday or Tuesday, and then to try to find some kind of solution to be proportionately present, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199677	The SDP rep club disagrees with that, you know that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199678	Look, your representative agreed with it for the first time at the presidency and agreed with what I said about staying that state until we did, we don't define something that everyone would agree on because the goal was to reach a consensus, not to vote either, nor to decide, so I simply wanted to correct you, is not the President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199679	Well, my suggestion is to make it possible for the MPs, there's never more than 40 MPs in the assembly, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199680	Look, if, if there's any deal, let's just stick to that deal for as long as it goes. If it doesn't work, then we'll agree that he's out of business, and then we'll make different rules. We have to have some rules to protect all of us. So that's what this is all about, it's not about anything, it's not about me believing that my colleague Radin would have done the same thing, and that it was about HDZ representatives, that it was about MOST representatives or anything else. If there's any deal, then we stick to that deal for our health, not for anything else. Uh, and now it had nothing to do with what you were talking about, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199681	Well, I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will respond to what my colleague Maras said. So, it's hard for me to talk like my colleagues, Marasa, what happened at the Bureau meeting and what was agreed there because we weren't there either. But what I can tell you from experience is that, I don't know what you agreed there, but I know how it worked out in practice. So, at the moment of some important topic and when everyone was interested in the debate, there were two members from each club or not more than 28 representatives, and that was the first day, and that was the first day, and then at some point when there was this situation that we were 4-5, and there were 4 or 5 representatives of SDP interested or HDZ, I'll tell you, turn the footage of the debate, and you'll see that there were times when we were sitting at 4-5 from the same party, we've been neatly raising replicas, we've debated in the INA building, I can, I can think about it now, the time will expire, but here we're talking, we don't stick to the Rules, so maybe you'll give me a few minutes, a few seconds. But this one in the INA building we were discussing at one point the four of us in the SDP were sitting because there was an empty room and I don't see the problem personally. If here today at this point everyone wanted to come in, all the club representatives, I'd be the first to do it, the deal is a deal, two, over. But then this was imposed now that Prime Minister Plenkovic defended the second package of economic measures in the INA building, and when Mr Jandrokovic said, "Op, you only have the right to two replicas, there can be no more than two of you, but by then we were in a situation that there were 4-5 of us. That's what we're talking about, and now we're confused if we're working one way today, tomorrow on the other, the day after tomorrow on the third. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199682	I have to say whenever I chaired this deal, I've stuck to it because it's kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199683	No, no, okay. And before the earthquake we were there, there were 28 of us, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199684	...because, because, because such an agreement was in the presidency where, I repeat, they were representatives of all parties, such an agreement was reached. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, we had the presidency again, there was a proposal to go according to the proportional system and to try to get a proportional number of members to solve it because it really isn't, let's just say optimally I would say, this to be two representatives of the club that has, I don't know 40 members or 30 members and a club that has 3 members, there was a proposal. This proposal, not everyone agreed with that proposal, among other things no, neither did counterpart Hajdas Doncic, who represented you, nor did counterpart Petrov, and then the agreement was to try to define this new proposal that would be proportionate, so we will have the presidency again either on Friday or early next week, and by then we will go by the principle of this Editor's Office to put it this way, by two representatives of each club. And I'm saying, if every time he breaks himself, he's certainly not under my presidency, because I'm looking out for it, and I know this morning, he's just the same president, and I think he's just asking someone to leave the hall, so there's no more, so there's no colleague of Bačić to be no more than two representatives of every club. So let's keep that deal until Friday, because it's also agreed at the presidency, and then we'll probably change it. There's a good will that seems to me from all sides to change it just some details in that dispute. Here you go, now it's so off the record... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199685	Off the record, though, you know why I was among the representatives who protested today because we had some rules and it's acceptable for me to settle it within a reasonable time frame, so during the day, two or at the latest by the second week. We were afraid that it wouldn't go away for a month or God forbid the election. And most of all today, there was a problem, completely unnecessary to me. So in hall 6 or 7 MPs, the two of us in the SDP here and the two of us sitting there on the side and then somebody calling the guard to warn us that we can't even be in this aisle on the side. Now that to me I have nothing to do with any logic on the other hand there stands the minister, on the other hand and five people from the ministry, they can, we can't even stand in the hallway, so let's just say it's not good. And that's where the guards were called in two, three times, and then we went out so that we didn't actually work out the problem because it wasn't their fault, but they didn't think of it themselves, but someone called them, and today there was no need for it. And all we wanted was an answer within which time we could expect some kind of agreement, we sent a proposal today for some of our visions and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199686	Here I think I gave the answer so that here I would colleague Maras gave it to me unofficially to give my protest, but I would suggest that you underline it anyway, I think you've now got the answer to that. I don't know, don't be mad at me but you have to communicate inside your club too. But then you'd know that the deal is such that it stays the "Uravnilovka" I call under quotes, two, two. When the presidency was yesterday, to stay for the next three days, only what on Friday will be the vote or we will have a presidency on Friday or early next week and try to find one ratio that will be exactly proportional to the number of members. But in any case, you now have information about it. I would like to conclude the debate on this point, of course we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work on Thursday 16th April at 9.30 a.m. will be the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Sports, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 992, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 18.45 p.m. We are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Act for the Coastal Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 821. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Minister of State in the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat, first of all on Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199688	I thank the vice president of HS. Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Club is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199689	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199690	Amendment number two of the HDZ Representatives Clubs is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199691	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. That's how we solved this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-15-0.u199692	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Coal Research and Carbon Exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 821. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During his statement on the amendments, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the HDZ Assembly Club and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes were 108 for, 7 abstentions and 5 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Coal and Carbon Exploitation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Today's first item on the schedule: - Final draft law supplementing the Sport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 922; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Tomislav Družak, State Secretary of the Central State Sport Office. Here you go.
