ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9605	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 4th session of HS and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-Presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Before moving towards the agenda, I would also like to welcome representatives who are in other halls, in the “Josip Šokčević”, “Josip Jelačić”, “Ante Starčević” in both the yellow and the red salon. I also welcome our colleagues and colleagues who follow us through video links. Just a little bit of information. Therefore, those who are not in the main council, the high council, in the case of replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure or requests for a break, will do so in the rooms in which they are located. We'll put the microphones here on the side and here they'll be able to replicate or explain the request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a break. We'll take a break every two hours of 10 minutes to clear the area we're in. Other things if they happen that we didn't anticipate will be solved in walking, I ask you to understand that we are all both reasonable and responsible and solid to each other so that we can do good and quality work. You received the record of the 3rd session of HS by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I note that we adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of HS in the proposed text. Now we're moving on to the session agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda has been submitted by electronic means and new points submitted in the final draft agenda have been printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 14 new points, under regular numbers 1, from 3 to 10, and 16, 25, 46, 51 and 71. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of point 11 of the final draft agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act with the final draft law. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will be decided on proposals, legislation and a proposal from the Rules of Procedure proposed by the Proposer to adopt in an emergency procedure. These are points 7, 37, 38, 43, 44, 46 from the final draft agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws and Rules of Procedure? My colleague Kristo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm looking for a break because of the dissatisfaction with the proposed agenda. I want to point out here, I want to point out...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9607	My colleague Kristo, colleague Kristo, just a minute, I'm interrupting you right now because you can't ask for a break right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9608	...let me say it to the end. Let me say it to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9609	I can't let you say, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9610	The Rules of Procedure, no, the Rules of Procedure say we can appeal in writing 24 hours before the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9611	That's right, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9612	We got the agenda yesterday at half four, and there was no possibility of showing dissatisfaction because of the non-interpletion of Krsh-Passed in the agenda and therefore we are looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9613	So, no, not a coworker just a little bit, I'll explain to you about Krsh-Paden, it's no problem. So she couldn't be included in the agenda because we still haven't gotten a government statement. The moment the government shows that the point of automation will be included in the agenda. So there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9614	Because of the Croatian public, it is because of the Croatian public that it is important...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9615	Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9616	I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9617	You said what you had, I explained what it was about and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9618	I don't violate the Rules of Procedure and it doesn't stand what you told me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9619	So the point will be included in the agenda when the conditions are met. I think my colleague Sacic called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9620	So I would just like to point out, the Honorable President, that we have made a single note in writing of the order in the agenda so that we Croatian sovereigns wanted to discuss the state of the state in the state of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9621	Yeah, I saw it, thank you very much. So what's on the agenda doesn't mean there's going to be a debate schedule...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9622	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9623	...and we'll, I've seen, thank you for the suggestion...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9624	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9625	...he has his logic and we'll see how we can work it out. So, any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law and the Rules of Procedure that I have proposed? If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Appeal may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to points which did not contain the draft agenda, in accordance with the request for a meeting, and those points are included in the agenda of the 4th session. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 228th century 1. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9678	The next statement is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9679	Thank you, dear Vice President. We've talked several times in this assembly about a problem that will arise by 31. This year 12 related to professional studies in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, as you are probably familiar with the Constitutional Court has broken part of the law on the Croatian qualification framework twice. There is no need to create a panic in these conditions of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, but believe me, for 55,000 wave of young people, another kind of panic arises, and this is a panic that since 1 July 2021, when decisions of the Constitutional Court come into force that they will lose their qualifications and that their diploma in the European higher education area will not be recognised which will greatly disrupt their employment opportunities because simply their qualifications will no longer be allocated to the corresponding levels of the Croatian qualification framework. Therefore, even though there is a single opinion of 5 judges of the Constitutional Court who have beautifully taxed why this decision is completely wrong, why the decision is completely contrary to the legal property of the EU to other Croatian laws which regulate the area, however, under the pressure of part of the academic community, and therefore the large questionnaire is now hanging over the heads of 55,000 diplomats, or who have won professional studies. It should therefore be added that the above will jeopardise the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, which we have taken over by joining the European higher education area, such as the prescribed obligation to join the Agency for Science and Higher Education in European associations. I am also very interested in calling on the minister to stop holding meetings, to stop making partial statements through the media, and therefore to make a complete solution that will satisfy and hence the university academic community, but in the first order that will satisfy students who have studied in these studies and had a hard time getting their degree. But what goes under the radar is not just a problem for professional studies. We have another closely related problem and it refers to postgraduate specialist studies. Since 2003 in the Republic of Croatia, it is no longer possible to obtain a master's degree in science. You know the old rule that was worth especially in public services and state-owned companies that these masters of science received 8% of the salary allowance, and the doctors of science received 15%. By abolishing this programme, the Master of Science in 2003 tried to replace the post-graduate specialist studies, which must be stressed costing approximately the same as the Master’s of Science. Their prices range from some 30,000 kuna to up to 60,000 kuna in a year's implementation of the study programme. And you should say today, the people who acquired our citizens that diploma they are also nowhere today. Therefore, the vast majority of state-owned companies do not recognise their degree and the academic title they have acquired, and therefore there is no regulation in collective agreements to allow them the salary supplement. Therefore, even the commission established for interpreting the collective contract for officials and public-service residents stated that since 2003 there has been no possibility of obtaining the scientific degree of the master’s degree of science and given the fact that specialist studies have become the next degree of education after the university study, that the commission will enable the contracting parties of the collective contract to do so. Since then, this was 2011, nine years later nothing has changed. It should be added that more than 270 of these specialist studies are currently being conducted in Croatia, and in fact, this is a little bit of a dangerous thesis that I will say, but to deceive the public, people who enter these study programmes are being deceived in the hope that it will simply be worth their diploma as it used to be for the Master of Science. A clear explanation of the difference should be made and, of course, it should be possible for these people to be granted a salary supplement as it once was made for the masters of science that was conducted by 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9755	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Green Left bloc's representative, Bojan Glavasevic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, in Croatia there is no left extremism, that sounds banal when I say so. However, this is the thesis that has recently been classified as having both right and left extremism in Croatia, so today I'm going to say something about it. In 2015, a certain Damir Mamic, who is more known to the public under the name or nickname of Commander Shamil, was sentenced for public encouragement to terrorism for a year. He was given a year in prison, and his sentence was replaced by work for the greater good. He was given the obligation of psychosocial therapy even though he himself said he had been visiting a psychiatrist for some time. During his sentence and explanation of the verdict, the judge told the gentleman in question: "It is a socially very dangerous crime. It directly disturbs the public and threatens the order, and it is known that the guerrilla and partisan decrees, which means such treatment and the indifference it carries especially because very serious words were put forth only a few days after the explosion in Zagreb. Is everything said in a joke about laymen and for success amongst your acquaintances, and unrelated to the fact that it was recorded in the living room that your father interrupts you and invites you to dinner, that you did not hide your face, identity, that there was some kind of ethnic music in the background. So, aside from all this, this court had to find you guilty." In the end, Mr. Mamic said, "I want you to stay away from these things that drive you to say this kind of nonsense. Go in peace to Mamic." There, it is one of the few examples of left extremism and self-proclaimed in Croatian history. It is an important fact when we talk about extremism because we have heard from some colleagues here that there is left extremism in Croatia. It doesn't exist or exists in clues. But that's why there's right extremism and he usually goes unpunished. Right extremism in Croatia sees anyone who does not close their eyes while walking down the street. Shops and streets of Croatian cities are filled with swastika, zdsov, Serb killings and insults at the expense of LGBT persons. The social networks of... our public space are filled with hatred and violence which have been witnessed in recent weeks by numerous public figures, from Lana Baric, Maja Sever, Mirela Priselac, Ivana Kekin to the late Prime Minister Plenkovic himself. The signature of hate and violence was signed by right extremists and it's not just now. That's how it's always been. When it comes to extremism in Croatia, it is almost exclusively about right extremism. It's important to know and it's important to say. HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic are reluctant to say that because they are still foolishly hoping that they can chew which voice on that side of the political spectrum does not realise that such political opportunism is completely in vain. There's no deal with extremists. There's no finding halfway. Anyone who thinks they can make a deal with extremists is wrong. Plenkovic and HDZ do not understand that they are in some way worse than our left. For extremists we are at the beginning of enemies, but the moderate conservatives for them are traitors, not righteous and righteous enough, not ready enough for the erosion of institutions and democracy. Therefore, they are for extremists completely legitimate targets of hate and violence. Extremism in Croatia comes in two aromas. In the clerical and nationalist. These first ones in Croatia would establish what they believe to be the Kingdom of God, and in fact... the maid's stories or this painful scenario that we look at in the streets of Polish cities where extreme clerical ideas have deeply divided the Polish society, in which there is neither freedom nor a whole series of other fundamental human rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These others continue to mourn the traitorous, Quislinic NDH, and the most anger they have toward those who have ended this Nazi nightmare. Here I think of Croatian anti-fascists and anti-fascists and their ideal heirs and heirs today as well as national minorities such as Jews and Serbs. What I'm saying doesn't require any special arguments, enough to walk along a Croatian street like Mile Budak Street in Slavonski Brod or Street on 10 April in Slatinski Drenovci. There is a need to seek extremism, hatred and violence in Croatia. Damir Mamic, the self-proclaimed commander of Shamil, won the fine he deserved, committed it and slightly forgot his last words before the trial “I did not expect it in the wildest dreams, nor did I have any intention to harm anyone, I apologize to those who have had any inconvenience over my reckless actions.” Here, I'm done in a few seconds. Have we heard anything like this from anyone on the far right? No, we're not. Instead, we got relativization, justification, support groups on social networks and finding the culprit in everyone but ourselves. The problem of right extremism, and I end up here, it didn't come overnight and it won't disappear overnight, but if there's anything we can do right now, we can be honest and tell what extremism is and where it comes from, and it doesn't come from the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9819	Next, the next presentation of the position on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9820	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I ask you, has the time finally come for Croatia to change? Will we be called together by HS, who at least will start major reform processes, or will we be another generation of short-sighted and selfish politicians who have spent their time and opportunity in vain? If a pope has the strength to admit that corruption is deeply rooted in the Catholic Church itself for centuries, is it possible that there is not one true, true and true patriot in Croatia who will make it clear and loud that from the very beginning of the states has been corruptly hidden and that because of 30 years. The corruption of governance threatens complete collapse? In my political work, I keep saying that unlike other countries where only certain individuals are corrupt, our problem is that the whole system is corrupt. Corruption is of a systemic nature in Croatia. A mysterious King Kong who, from time to time, allegedly tries to drive out is not an individual. King Kong is a group, a mentality that, through political processes, re-creates corruption and maintains it in power whoever is its current executioner. And here's what's corruptive in our constitutional and social political course. It's a corrupt reality, a practice. It is a corrupt way in which all political processes are taking place, and as a result, most of our daily lives are corrupt. And to make it easier to explain that corruption has grown beyond the level of the problem of inefficient justice and that it stems from established mentality, I will use the words of Pope Francis, no one has well described the phenomenon of corruption as well as he. For him, corruption is the evil of our time, the weeds, the moral cancer, and, above all, those who are in positions of influence, those who have power and power, it affects everyone, and so do those who uncritically see their constituents in political positions of power, those who uncritically view our country president or Prime Minister. The Pope interprets that a corrupt man is not aware of his condition and becomes infected with society, corruption spreads and imposes complicity. In a highly corrupt society, who has become ours is the question of who are the creators, who are the current main protagonists, and who are their accomplices? The creators are large political parties who have built an existing system and a territorial structure broken down in a number of counties, cities and municipalities, as well as imaginary and unnecessary state and other public bodies which most citizens do not know the name or purpose. For a number of bodies, most citizens do not even know that they exist, so they are not even aware of the enormous financial burden they are carrying needlessly on their backs just so that political parties have a place to take care of their own party personnel as well as an ATM for their party and other private financial interests. Since Croatia has formed in it is a political party that is in power, and in fact its current head is the main factor that defines everything, determines everything and decides everything, it is the measure and the measure of all things. Now, if the game is red or blue, the difference is in shades, but not essentially. And thus we come to the question of who are the main protagonists of the survival of corrupt Croatia? These are the heads of major political parties, whether present or ex. Whether they themselves participated in specific corrupt activities, their corruptive crime is that they do not allow Croatia to change in any way. Between blue and red corruption, I don't put a sign of absolute equality, and I'm going to sum up the difference over 2 so-called 2 so-called. political titan, through Andrej Plenkovic, who represents a political party in which corruption is a connective tissue, a common denominator and a sign of recognition, and Zoran Milanovic, who now represents himself, but also someone who lives with corruption in co-existence in so-called a peaceful co-habitation. Corruption is a system where the president of the state pays more honours in his public action to the political parties' solemn sessions, such as the one in which the 30th anniversary is marked. the existence of the SDP with a message to respond in the same way to the HDZ ceremony rather than to the HS at which the constitutive session did not come. Normally, those whose party is more important, bigger and above state institutions would say. Corruption is a system in which the president of the state believes that we do not need high-level lawyers and constitutional legal experts in the constitutional court, but can also be served by party soldiers. Normally, those to whom the constitutional court's task is to protect the day-to-day political interests of the party in power would say, either red or blue, and not worry about constitutional values and fundamental rights and citizens' freedoms. Finally, I will say that Pope Frane is right when he says that sin is forgiven, but that corruption cannot be forgiven. The corrupt government in Croatia has chosen about 16% of our voters, allegedly democratically oriented. They can freely conclude that there are accomplices to the current corrupt state. The question is, can they be forgiven? Dear MPs, the time ahead will quickly pass in order to remember us as those who have done something good for this country, I invite you to discuss the necessary reforms to begin immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9852	Here we continue with the work, taking a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9853	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, unfortunately, we had a chance to see the incredible scenes from the Vienna streets. Those pictures went around the world. It's about another terrorist attack in a row. It's about another attack after Paris, after Nice. Unfortunately, these attacks have become almost everyday in Europe and we can always wonder why. Is it Christian Europe or post - Christian Europe itself to blame for what is happening? Of course it is. If we look at a little today's Europe, we'll see that it's becoming less Christian and more secular, that all those values, traditions, heritage that it once inherited are increasingly denied. And then it's not illogical that there's a new ideology, a new worldview. This time it's not Christian. This is about Islamising Europe. To be clear, no one has anything against Muslims, at least you shouldn't have. However, we must not deny Islamic terrorism, the terrorism that comes from the ranks of Muslims in Europe more and more. Today we will not talk about Christian extremism and Christian terrorism in Saudi Arabia, we will not talk about Christian attacks in the Emirates, but unfortunately we will talk more and more often about Muslim terrorism throughout a number of European cities. Unfortunately, children in Vienna schools did not attend classes today, nor did children attend kindergartens. Today Vienna is a desert city, yesterday it was Nice, the day before yesterday it was Paris. Who's next? I don't know. But what is important to stress is that a large part of the blame for this is precisely the European policy that has completely denied that of its Christian heritage, Christian heritage, and it is not illogical that it is related to this and the demographic disaster in Europe, and hence to migration that brings some new elements to Europe. Here we also have to look back at another statement by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who yesterday mentioned again the Croatian-Serbian or Serbian-Croatian trade coalition in the central daily of Croatian television and I don't see where Andrej Plenkovic has a problem with the coalition when he willingly chose his partner. He chose that his coalition partner would be SDSS, a party with a word in its name, a term, "Serbia". Also HDZ, you hear what it's called, and then call that coalition Croatian-Serbian I see nothing wrong. And it is true that this coalition existed both in 2007 and in '8. And '9. as Andrej Plenkovic listed all the way to this day yesterday. And I'm going to say that this coalition was as legitimate at that time as it was today under an unfair electoral system. Because what Croatian citizens need to know, Milorad Pupovac and Andrej Plenkovic use the possibility of coaling and using the option of choice in HS under special law. If Milorad Pupovac had been elected on the list of SDP or any other party, the problem would not have been, but since the Croatian state has given him an unfair, poor electoral law regardless of the number of votes, the choice in HS, then we can ask the question and question the correctness of that decision. In any case, as much as it liked it or didn't like Andrej Plenkovic, Croatia is now run by the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, and as long as it will be decided by the Croatian people. I hope that everyone is aware how bad this coalition is for our country and that already on the next election cycle Croatian citizens will choose someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9913	The next latest statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9914	Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues. I had no intention of reporting for word on this wheel, but that was what my colleagues and colleagues before me offered me on behalf of the clubs. It is the impression that some opposition advocates have seen this free statement on behalf of their clubs as an opportunity to use mud, slander, accusations against political opponents using heavy artillery of heavy words such as a criminal organisation whose only connective tissue of corruption, Titanic corruption, then Serbian or Croatian or Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, an unconstitutional authority that came out of unconstitutional, illegal election results. They actually seem like giant words to me... works because behind those persons whom there are still no acts by which we can recognize them except that they use this stage here in the Croatian Parliament daily to slander others, to accuse others, and that is the only political war they have ever shown in the Assembly. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, only designated opposition leaders and party presidents are. We are witnessing that individuals or individual MPs or MPs have changed in two days three political parties, that overnight they become the president of the other party without the public knowing it, without any democratic procedure, without statutes, without elections. In one party you were president yesterday, today you are in the other party the second president of the other party. Without the public, without any procedure, we simply hear tomorrow that someone has become president of this front, someone president of this smart one, but one we can do, etc. and this is the situation in both the other and other opposition political parties, and then without any shame, without any inconvenience, another calling for corruption, other slanders and others. We have concluded with the work of the previous session of the Parliament. I remained obliged to answer to Mrs. Oreshkovic, so now I'm using the opportunity to tell her that she hasn't explained to the public how and how without a public tender, without a public call she got a job for the company Janaf. I know very well, Mrs. Oreshković, that I have to answer you because you've been showing me for days because I've been a public contracting officer for a long time, that for certain legal jobs, consulting jobs, lawyers should not call a public tender, you don't need to teach me that, I know very well, even though I know that for certain legal jobs, however, in many companies, public companies, public companies, conducts a public call and a competition. You can view this on a number of web sites of these same companies. But anyway, that's not my problem. I'm only problem with what you didn't answer, and that's how your law firm is besides 5 grand and 200 law firms without a public call, without a competition, whether it's a chance to work for Janaf's company. That you remained obliged to answer, not to show me, to attack me that you should know as an agent that for certain legal and legal affairs and services should not be prescribed a tender. Therefore, gentlemen, when you talk about others, when you transfer corruption to others, crime, first look at your political biographies as well as how you founded your parties, past the public, and how you changed the leaders of political parties overnight. There is no democracy in the state without democracy within its own political party, no. You can't be a benchmark for others when in your own political parties you're carrying out strange, unexplained, mysterious, self-pronounced leaders or presidents of opposition political parties, and then they appear as the ultimate authority here in these democratic societies. You can't spend what other parties do in your own ranks, you can't have other strong parties in Croatia showing up here and telling others that you're doing something even worse to accuse others and other slanderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9915	Thank you. This is what we're done with taking a stand on. Stand by 15 hours and 30 minutes as announced. 15 and 30. SOCIAL IN 15.06 HOURS The next presentation of the position on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u9994	Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when doctors, nurses and other medical professionals are on the streets, Health Minister Beroš and Prime Minister Plenkovic are not coming down from the TV screen convincing us that what we all see is not to be seen because if you are telling the truth today or asking for answers why the government participates in corruption and protects it, you get the label that you are radical and that you are spreading hate speech. History teaches us that propaganda and deception can work on a limited period, but sometimes the time of truth comes when facts come to light, and the fact is that our health is collapsing and that all in Croatia it is clear that it is the cause of this HDZ situation and its leadership and its sister SDP, and its leadership. Their disastrous management of health and its deeply woven corruption network has the following. Since 2013 when we became a member of the EU, we have had a mass outflow of healthcare professionals and now come up with problems that have been pushed under the rug by the governments so far. The chronic lack of staff, low wages, and organisational disorder have driven our people to their stomachs with bread, and those left in the system have brought into an unbearable situation. But it's not just that there would be enough money in health if we could just stop corruption and criminal procurement in that sector, there's money on other sides. Only in the case of the veteran Krš Falled out of the state budget is estranged 2 billion and 200 million kuna, then we add the 7 billion kuna Oil, and then JANAF that public procurement in the political corruption arrangement, it simply doesn't need to be a great mathematician to realize that so much theft of public goods can't be money for health care, for the police, for education, or for employees of the state administration, for example, the Tax Administration. Does that have to be the way it is? He doesn't have to. Here is the case of Poland, Poland has carried out a thorough lustration to the extent that the symbol in the destruction of communist totalitarianism in Europe and the Nobel Prize winner Lech Wales had to justify not working for the communist secret service. The Polish society has faced crimes of totalitarian communism and is building its society on true democratic values, so recently the President of the Supreme Court of Poland removed all photos of the former Supreme Court presidents for the period of communism from the Supreme Court's memory of the room in the Supreme Court, with the conclusion that the Communist judiciary did not serve justice but ideology and crime. For 15 years Poland has been constantly growing economic growth, purchasing power is growing, the state is developing, and the Poles who had to move their stomachs after bread have now returned to their homeland. In our country of Croatia, a book that celebrates the character and work of communist bully Budimir Lončar, our President of the Constitutional Court worked as a lawyer in the JNA system, reportedly had a high rank but had no evidence of it and as such JNA sent it as such to the Ministry of Justice where communist bully Ivan Fumic received it as a plastic example of how communist intelligence services deployed their personnel. This Miroslav Šeparovic recently announced that he and his wife have 10 million kuna savings, Šeparovic and his godfather, the Croatian judiciary, Vladimir Seks, a proven co-worker of Uboba, were scrutinised by examples of the judicial elite that are ruling the Croatian judiciary. The consequence of the situation in the judiciary is, for example, that 60 days ago, I passed on proof of the millions of tax evasions of the regime's entrepreneur Emil Tedeschi, and the government that is due within 30 days does nothing. This Emil Tedeschi friend of President Milanovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic harass the citizens of Hvar but he is completely protected from the mainstream media and politics. The common denominator of the ruling elite in Croatia is belonging to the Yugoslav communist establishment. In view of this, they have privilegedly come to their positions, the logical order is that they are operationally incompetent and are the only ability to attach to public budgets, plotting and media and justice that they pay with our money. The results are visible, we are 26 of the 27 EU Member States by purchasing power, and in Croatia there are no hard demographics or 4 million inhabitants. I repeat and repeat the main problem of Croatian society are blocked institutions that produce corruption and protect it. I am telling the corrupt ruling elites that I will fight against this situation because only the rule of law can get Croatia out of the abyss that was dragged into by these very corrupt elites.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10048	The presentation of a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10049	Thank you very much. The people are terrified, the people in Croatia are confused, the people see no light at the end of the tunnel. I think that the policies that have been declared in recent months are more than sad, difficult, people just expect how sick they are, and they impose on themselves exactly how many covid sufferers they are, that's what they're waiting for, and of course the people in psychos are worried about themselves, about their children, about the future. The subject of extremism, the right-wing and left-wing who are larger extremists or who are smaller extremists while our citizens repeat living in fear. They live in fear because they fear the future for their jobs, for survival in this area. The past days we have also heard months of stories of self-sufficiency, about the Croatian state that will be the first to get out in the EU to get billions, but facts and reality are quite different. When we talk about self-sufficiency, then the sadness and misery of this policy is visible today in the Castelan greenhouses, which are of 24/14 full of domestic food products, now at this point. And that farmer, the OPG, who employs 30 people, 30 women who are satisfiedly violently sent to the police to get expelled, power out, they are excluded from water to dry that domestic product, homemade salad, homemade cucumber all that should be in the Republic. Well, isn't that absurd? Is it absurd that at 12 acres of Kaštelan greenhouses, water and electricity are excluded and police are sent to these people? At the same time as importing 3 billion food products of questionable quality, but these are import lobbys again. I expect a minimum from the Minister of Agriculture, Prime Minister, and all of us to enable the completion of the production of salad to those people who pay for their workers, who were in bankruptcy while the Castelan greenhouses that were targeted are being produced there by the best quality products, to stop this persecution of these people and find the most optimal solution in this corona crisis on this high-quality agricultural land. I repeat, 14 plastics are currently full of domestic products, these people who work there earn wages and violent persecution and calling for some kind of right and justice after bankruptcy, and who bought it City of Kaštela. And now imagine the City of Kaštela shutting down water through a bankruptcy manager to a man who pays 30 women, and they're full of domestic products. So what's it gonna be? That's what's going to get the man out, the greenhouses are going to destroy what the target is long ago, and what's going to be another step, we're going to be importing from Italy, Spain or I don't know where in our trade chains of agricultural products. I think we all have to ask ourselves, at this point, whether these people who work, who pay our workers, are we going to stand behind them and the city and the local self-government and the county of Mr. Sanader along with the county council and all of us behind these people to end up not ruining their agricultural well-being? It's minimally what we as politics can do as their agents. I was ashamed the other day when Croatian police were sent to shut down water and electricity to protect it. It is not the Croatian police officer's fault, he was ordered to carry out his duty. Once again when we compare these absurdities, the Croatian government in its four-year plan said it would double the irrigation of agricultural land. Out of a million and a half thousand acres, you know how much he's watered? 7,000 acres, which means it's twice 14,000 acres. So much for absurdity, a policy of absurdity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10198	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now starting to ask questions to the government, or to an individual member of the government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 132. to 139. The current morning is always held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions today is representative Dragana Jeckov, the issue goes to the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, Darko Horvatu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10199	I thank the Honorable President of HS, Mr. Minister. My question concerns the problem of buying former tenants' apartments. The programme of residential care of former homeowners provides a total of 9 293 persons, of which 7 634 in the area of special state care and 1 659 outside of it. Former holders who have established the right to housing and a issued solution spend years waiting to be assigned an apartment. Once they get an apartment for use, have some problems to buy it out. First of all, because of the high price and longevity of the procedure, and it is the users of an older age which unfortunately, a large part of them leave us in the meantime. My question is when will a new decision be taken to sell apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia to simplify and speed up the buy-in process and finally resolve the issue of former tenant rights holders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10200	Thank you. Minister Horvat, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10201	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs. I thank you for the open subject and the asked question. Therefore, according to the 2013 Decision on the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, the sale of apartments owned or co-owned by the Republic of Croatia used by tenants and members of the tenant family was made possible by the sale of apartments owned or co-owned by the Republic of Croatia. The category of tenants mentioned above also includes former tenant rights holders who are subject to the November '96 rental law. Mr. acquired the legal position of protected tenants. On the basis of the provisions of the decision referred to above in 2013 the procedure for the sale of dwellings in the field of special state care shall be implemented by the central state office for renovation and housing, while for the other areas of the sale of dwellings, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property shall implement. The purchase prices of the same apartments are determined by means of the calculation formula set out in that 2013 decision and the same prices are more favourable or less than currently marketable. The Ministry of Simple Planning, Construction and State Property, in collaboration with the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, but also in cooperation with Deputy Prime Minister Mr Milosevic, is currently preparing a proposal for a new decision on the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, and all to speed up the sale of the same apartments. We point out that the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, or the Ministry of State Property, has recently concluded a total of 261 purchase contracts, of which 38 of them are contracts for the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia and 223 contracts with one payment. I hope, or I'm almost sure, that in this tripartite composition this week we have a harmonised text of the new decision, so that the same, I hope, by the end of this week, will be sent to the resolution ministers for an opinion, and in the next 14 days the new decision will be the subject of the agenda item at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10202	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10203	... Ministers, I note this occasion that in earlier periods we had more significant funds at the housing position of former tenants. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm thinking of the budget, so in that sense, I'm well-intentioned that this should be taken into account in the following year. The opportunity is to point out that there is a particular problem in the case of former residents of the Beli Manastir area, somewhere around 74 users came to me and asked me because it is actually about people who are not covered by this Decision on the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia and they have not yet bought their apartments for this reason, which, of course, further complicates their lives. I ask that this.../incomprehensible... when this decision is at its final stage, make sure that the former owners of the capital of the White Manastir are covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10204	Let's go to another question, Representative Mato Frankovic, will be asked by the Minister of Health, William Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10205	I thank the esteemed president of HS. I'm going to refer the parliamentary question to the Minister of Health, Willy Berosch. The Dubrovnik-Neretva County sent the ministry, as well as other counties a proposal to organise a network of health institutions in the HZZO system in its area. The proposal also includes a desire for the ambulance on the island of Kolocep to be included in the HZZO network. I would like to remind you, Kolocep is an island west of Dubrovnik and on it according to the 2011 list lives 163 inhabitants, but in the summer months, Kolocep, which has 2 hotels, is the destination of numerous excursion boats, or tourists from the Dubrovnik area. So in the summer months there are up to 2,000 people there daily, however, Kolochep is not in the HZZO network, so the people of Kolocep cannot get a manual from a doctor on Kolocep, and they are also reported to a doctor on the neighboring island of Lopud. Since I took office as mayor, the city of Dubrovnik has been covering the cost of treating the team on Kolocep. So far, we've singled out 1.2 million kunas. We also cover the costs of the emergency medical care team on all Elafiti islands, and we have since 2018 allocated an additional 1.3 million kuna. By including Kolocep in the HZZO network, it would be possible for the people of Kolocep to receive the necessary service in order to make life conditions on the island much easier for the people of the island. I would like to point out that the city of Dubrovnik is still willing in the future to continue to support the work of the infirmary on Kolocep. Therefore, my question to you, Mr. Minister, when a new HZZO network will be completed, for which the counties responsible for primary health care have sent or are still sending proposals, and whether the ministry will accept the proposal of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County And put Kolochep in HZZO's network? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10206	Here you go, Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10207	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative, primary health care can and must be the foundation of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Standards and the required number of teams in primary health care, as you said, determines the network of public health services. The average number of insurance companies per team is at this point 1,700. The fact is that Dubrovnik-Neretva County sent a request to the ministry in early October for a solution from the county assembly where you are looking for an extension of the half-team network on the island. In addition to the above, the increase in the number of inhabitants during the summer months you have listed another element that we think is founded, which is the unfavourable occasional weather conditions that also prevent the availability of primary health care. Our goal is to strengthen the availability and quality of healthcare, so I will tell you that we will analyse your request. The creation of a public health service network is currently under way, however, as you know, given the Health Protection Act prior to its adoption, it is also necessary to request the opinion of the HZZO, HZZ and the competent chambers, we will do so and hopefully resolve this problem, but it is not only about that island area in your county that there are still areas in the Republic of Croatia where we need to adapt the public health service network to the dynamic process of changing conditions so the population, the number of inhabitants, their age-old distribution, the co-morbidities, diseases and so on. There, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10208	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10209	My dear Minister, I thank you for your reply. So, what I want to stress is certainly the fact that there is a tourist infirmary on the island of Kolocep, which is financed by the city of Dubrovnik, but the problem is that residents cannot get a favor in that infirmary, so the instructions and everything else they need are already being issued on the island of Lopud. Therefore, what the HZZO should consider is that there are units of local self-government willing to finance the infirmary, but that at the same time these infirmarys provide services to these residents where they are located. So we have these two cases, one is the island of Kolochep, the other is the infirmary in the historical core of the city. Both are tourist ambulances and we both finance the city of Dubrovnik only need to be included by HZZO without the obligation to finance by HZZO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10210	Let's go to the third question, MP Daniel Spajic will be asked by the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Butkovic has held a series of meetings with you over the past 15 months and addressed the relevant institutions. She warned of the consequences of pre-election trade and raising to local political leaders. As you are familiar with yourself in March 2019, a regulation has entered into force which, among other things, is a unilaterally established ban on the transport of goods vehicles through the Mursko Centre border crossing, from that point on without the legal change of status and the international contract governed by that crossing could no longer be used by almost 90% of carriers. The request of the Association of Croatian Road Vehicles to put out of force has been ignored, and Slovenia has reciprocated the decision that effectively closed the transport of cargo vehicles at the 6 largest border crossings. Only later did you see the consequences of the closing of the Murski Središč, announced the placing of the rules out of force and met with the Slovenian side. You keep the result secret until the last moment, because according to the carrier's claims, you agreed to a transport permit only for carriers based in Dalmatia in the north, and carriers based in central Croatia and Slavonia were played and limited to only two crossings. Since that event, I repeat, it's been 15 months. You reportedly held a meeting with the Slovenian side in September this year, but there has been no written trace, and you have refused to receive representatives of the Association of Croatian Road Transporters for 4 months. This resulted in a corona crisis that put the last nail into a coffin by road transporters. Minister Butkovic I ask you why you do not want to receive representatives of the Association of Croatian Road Transporters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10212	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10213	Your Honor, thank you first, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, I thank you first for your question, and I must tell you at the beginning of your question that I have not received them for 4 months is not true. The Croatian road transporter association was in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 10 days ago on the topic of winter service and traffic in winter months along Croatian highways. So whoever informed you and who you prepared the question with, you can say freely behind this meeting that he has deceived you. Secondly, it is true that the Association of Croatian road transporters on average once a month at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure at meetings with the assistant, the Secretary of State but also with me has been addressing a number of problems that have been plagued by freight carriers, so I will only mention that in these talks, the efforts and concrete results have come to the conclusion that, for the first time in the term of office of this Government, they have been convened and there has been a return of fuel charges to all freight carriers, that at the time of the Covid crisis, we have been in constant contact with and with the Association of Road Carriers and the MUP around the corridor of uninterrupted transport that was held at the time of the Crown, that we have made a series of decisions, in a way that we have made it easier and not paid CEM licences, etc. in particular, they made it easier for freight carriers to make it easier for them, even though they were less hit by those in passenger transport because they were driving all the time in the corona of the crisis and the whole situation. As far as border crossings are concerned, it's not true that it was a pre-election trick. No pre-election trick, it happened in 2019, and I ask you to go to the Mursko Centre to go to some border towns and municipalities, you are an advocate so that you can see the specific accidents that occurred where trucks crashed into people's homes and rightly these people and their mayors and mayors expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that we built highways, that we owe those same highways, and that we direct complete transit truck transport to the state roads that we have to rebuild every two to three years. And the decision came from the Slovenian side most affected at that time by the carriers from Dalmatia because it was illogical for them to go to Bregan and Macelj. And we have opened a conversation with the Slovenian party that is still going on, nothing is secret. I have reported everything to the public, but also to the Association of Road Transporters about what we discussed and part of the small-scale crossings we have managed to open for the border counties and for Dalmatia when it comes to Rupa and Pasjak. I agree with you, the other carriers from Slavonia are still talking to the Slovenian side to open and release Slavonian, exclusively Slavonian counties to some small border crossings in northwestern Croatia. Those conversations are still going on, because of the crown, and it's all kind of stalled together. We also do certain things with the MUP around existing border crossings to speed up the whole procedure. So it's not true that I didn't receive them, it's not true that nothing is done, and as so far, we will successfully solve all these problems together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10214	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10215	Thanks for the answer. I mean, I'm not happy with your answer because I'm directly communicating with the president of the Association of Croatian Road Transporters and we spoke yesterday, so someone's not telling the truth. You say you received them, they say you didn't, they tell me they were going to protest, that you told them to protest, that's why she was a presswoman a few days ago in front of your ministry. This is what I know about Mr. Minister a little bit more because I had a road transport company because I come from the real sector, you know, I'm not a classical politician and it's not exactly what you're talking about. And now I wouldn't be talking about myself and my firm. I'm gonna talk to the president of the association again today, and I can invite them to stand next to me and let them tell who's telling the truth and who's not. If they're lying, I apologize in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10216	Let's go to Question 4 of Representative Ruzica Vukovac's question is asked by the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukković- Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10217	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Minister. Croatian farmers have not yet received payment of advances of support, although autumn work is already near the end, farmers within the EU already receive an advance in October or in advance from support to facilitate the cost of seed and all other autumn works. Also, farmers within the EU receive the difference of support immediately after the beginning of the year, so during February, March, April, and this is only during June or the final legal deadline of 30 May and 30 June, respectively, to end the payment of complete support. Also, Croatian farmers have never received 100% of the planned support but have been denied 20-25% per year for the part that goes from the Croatian budget and despite the GDP growth itself that Croatia has recorded in recent years. My question to you is why do only Croatian farmers have to wait for budget rebalancing, as well as the final deadlines, so end of November and end of June to get the money they need to carry out their work, and the funds for these support come from the EU budget that are certainly, I firmly believe in the paid-up of the Republic of Croatia in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10218	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10219	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, Your Honor, Madam Representative. I appreciate the question. I will immediately say that the pre-payments for the production year start on 15 November as it was last year and will be slightly more than a billion and 500 million kuna, which is 200 million kunas more than last year and almost 19%, despite the budgetary constraints this demanding year is causing in front of all of us. Also, according to European legislation, the fastest launch of advance payments is in October and not all countries are doing so. Croatia is currently doing everything it can for farmers and I believe that Croatian farmers see it. As for payments in wars as well as in many other European countries and in Croatia, the first war in February, the second war in April, was not before, however, in the past few years in the term of this government, such payout dynamics were established, with a small part of the IACS measures not investment measures of rural development and final balances and returns remaining for June, and we stick to dynamics within... As for the intensity of the support and use of the envelope, so last year compared to the regularly allocated envelope of 382m euros for direct payments spent 101% because we used a 42m-euro flexibility mechanism, and if we include in our combination and this flexibility mechanism, then we should say that 93% was spent on direct payments, however, following the demand of the sector, the market disturbances we had, we paid more than 300 million kuna for other types of support, which was more acceptable and more important than support per hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10220	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10221	I thank you for your answer. However, each farmer, by simple mathematical action, therefore takes a pen and paper and calculates, and every day more and more appears to have not received the total amount of support or to register the deficits in their accounts, so I find it actually unacceptable that the Ministry of Agriculture is denying farmers in the last 5 years one full amount of support, one full amount of annual support, so that is what farmers themselves claim. It is true that the amount of support every year is somewhat higher, but it is also primarily because every year we receive 10% more support from the EU, so I have already said, but despite the increase in GDP, the village has never been paid.../incomprehensible/... the total amount of support, therefore farmers themselves claim. I am talking, and they are also talking, about direct salaries, not about the rural development programme, or the second level of support, so the IACS measure amounts to competitions or projects that farmers have run for, I believe that this is how farmers are weak, or we make them uncompetitive in relation to their colleagues within the EU and therefore, I will say just one more, that in 2015 alone, the Republic paid off the support in advance as early as October. So, all these other years, we wait for the November, or end of the 11th month. To pay off their resources to farmers and make it easier for them to work in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10222	Now HS Vice-President Furio Radin will ask Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10223	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. Art. Seven. Since 2015, the personal ID law has spoken about the form of the identity card and the way it was printed in Croatian and English and the way it was filled in, in Croatian and Latin letters. The special law or international agreements, the law states, and these contracts exist only for some national minorities, the form of the card is also printed in the language of the national minority. The other details are set out in the Regulation because the law does not show that the identity card form must be bilingual. So the identity card itself, and the special law hasn't been passed yet. The problem I want to talk about today, however, is different and the question I want to ask is quite specific. It refers to issuing a new card to minors. What happens when a mother or father comes with a minor daughter or son to extend the validity of an existing bilingual card, e.g. In Italian, both a mother and a child already have a bilingual card, and even if they didn't have it, it would be the same thing. You'll say, if she already has her ID card and has a written desire to be in Italian, there won't be any problem, she'll receive a request, and when the time comes, after the epidemic is stopped, the card will be issued. Or bureaucratically speaking, print the form in the proper form. Unremarkable colleagues and colleagues, for unknown reasons, require additional documentation, which puts persons, at least, in a special position, which is not in anyone's interest. My question is very simple, what has legally changed since 2015 to come up with such unpleasant additional demands? And although no one wants to, no one longs for I.D. extra... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10224	Comrade Radin, it's been a long time. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10225	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Your Honor. This question, as you yourself said, is regulated by both the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as well as the Law on the ID card. Therefore, under all these rules, members of national minorities have the right to submit requests in the language of national minorities, i.e. to print a form in the language of national minorities. This right is independent of whether a member of a national minority lives in a unit of local self-government in which more than or at least one third of the members of that national minority live, so this right is generally in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in meeting these requirements, so they can be filed in all 117 police administrations and police stations throughout Croatia. I have to admit, I don't know that according to all my information, there's never been a problem here, it's been issued on average for the last few years, about 3,000 bilingual IDs. In addition, we are bound by the 1992 European Charter of Minority Rights, which Croatia ratified in '98. Mr. So my understanding that nothing could and should not have changed analogly to what has been done so far should be done in the future, if you have a concrete example, here, you can give it to me, you could have given it to me so that we can solve it in a very short time, so I don't see any need for additional documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10226	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10227	Thank you for your response. If I understand correctly, no additional documentation is required if a minor or a minor already has a bilingual card. I do not, of course, think that it should be and I hope that there will be no need for any additional documentation or for any documentation other than the request, nor if you are looking for a first card because simply if you are looking for it in the language of the national minority there is some, there is some reason, and it does not take anything away from anyone because it is in both Croatian and English. So if he's still in one language, no one steals anything but adds a new value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10228	Thank you, too. Let's now go to Question 6 of Representative Tomislav Klaric's question asks the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10230	I thank President HS. Dear Ministers, the Istrian Ipislon is one of the most frequent but also one of the most insecure traffic stocks currently in Croatia. For this reason, for years, we have been talking about the need to build a full profile of the highway. And my question to you is what stage are we in with this project and when are we going to be able to drive across the other Ucka tunnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10231	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10232	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, first of all, about the previous question very briefly because I checked it out. The last meeting was held at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure with the Association of Road Transporters on 6 October at which we discussed and, and there are records about the winter service and of course there I provided information about the talks with the Slovenian side, so here, I see that the representative has left, perhaps another time better prepared. Now, as regards this issue, both the Istrian Ipsilon and Ucko Tunnel, following Government decision 2018. in Pula where we have decided that we will go to the changes to the Treaty on concessions for the construction of the second B1 phase, in particular 28 km full profile of the Istrian Ipsilon, the works are going very well and this week the first section will be opened, the first 12 km from Pazin to Cerovje full profile of the highway, and the end to the Vranja node, i.e. to the de facto to the Učka tunnel. By the very tunnel will be finished by the next season, the beginning of the 2021 tourist season. And as for himself, second, second, the U.K. government tunnel pipe made a decision a month ago on amendments to the concession treaty. Previously, the European Commission has confirmed that it is possible to go and conclude the changes to this contract involving the second Učka tunnel pipe of 8 km length and, of course, one part towards Matulji and this is a project worth around EUR 200 million that should be completed by 2000, somewhere in the 2024 season. It is one of the largest construction sites in the transport infrastructure currently in Croatia along with the Pelješki bridge. We invest around 20 billion kunas in transport infrastructure in all of Croatia today. But what's important is that, here's the thing about the Istrian Ipsilon, that thing is coming to an end. And what is even more important is that in these changes to the contract we received one, the amendments to the Treaty of Concession were actually another good effect for the state budget, which is to reduce the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia in the medium-term financial plan for the period from 2020 to 2022 by nearly 500 million kuna. So we did a good job. This project should raise GDP by 0.5% somewhere, so here I believe it is a good thing not only for Istria but for all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10233	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10234	I thank you for your answer. What convinces me is that your words will be fulfilled is the credibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and everything that has been done in recent years in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. Namely, I am a witness because I am also leading the city down, and in my area is the construction of a capital project pipeline, LNG terminals, then an MRS on the Evil, which is in the final phase and the merger to the Pula-Karlovac bus pipeline, the construction of KBC in Rijeka and the government's spotty response to rescue 3. May and start re-production, moving the construction of the Nova bypass. The Renaissance is practically in all our municipalities and cities in the coast, so at this point what is absolutely important for the city of Rijeka and the entire Primorje-Gorski County is a merger of the Zagreb coast with the knot, the knot of Škurinja. So, everything currently being done in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, that I am not talking about the Pelješko bridge which has long been promised investment and desire at this point is in an impressive stage of construction. He assures me that your words will be fulfilled and so forth. I trust my colleague, Butkovic, that we will ride together with that other Ucko tunnel when it opens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10235	Let's go to Question 7, now Vice President Sabina Vosovac will ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10236	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Prime Minister, Slovakia can be very easily compared to Croatia, there are slightly more than 5 million inhabitants. Last weekend, only one day, in Slovakia, believed or not 2.5 million citizens found that 1% of the population was positive for the coronary virus as part of the fight against the coronary virus. More than 40,000 doctors, officials, military, volunteers, conducted tests at about 5,000 locations. Well, I'm asking you now how is it possible that Slovakia can test 2.5 million people in one day, and in Croatia thousands of samples stand unworked because there are no reagents, so there are not enough tests, so there are no checkpoints, so there are no people? Is it a matter of disorganization, incompetence or lack of strategy and total loss of control in crisis management?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10237	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10238	Thank you, well-respected MPs, voter, for this matter. I may have known a little while ago because of communication with Slovak Prime Minister Matovic, who is usually my friend how, why they're just going into surgery like this. So the first tests that were made in Slovakia are antigen tests, so it's not PSR tests, of course even less serological tests. As you could hear from a number of epidemiologists, doctors, scientists, the difference is that in antigen tests we know reliably that those who are positive are really positive, and those who are negative in order to be absolutely sure that they are negative must also be tested on PSR tests. Slovakia did this to get a picture of the situation. On the last European Council, we have suggested to our partners, our friends, that an initiative be launched at ECDC level in order to have a common methodology for predicting possible future scenarios of pandemic dynamics several weeks in advance. In order for us to do so, we have also proposed to develop unique protocols by which serological testing would be made at European level, thus establishing the real state of the current spread of the epidemic. So these are two Croatian initiatives that we communicated to the European Council on Thursday. We will, of course, analyse this example of Slovakia, as will be analysed by all other countries, and if from what they have done over the weekend we can in our models, in our projections get useful information that will help us in predicting the dynamics of the epidemic we will, of course, be grateful for it, so this is one attempt, I would say experiment, but one attempt by a government to take a step because they were quite bypassed in the first wave of the epidemic. What I'm saying is about the fight against covida-19 is the strategy we're leading because we're living in a public political media space that has been pushing for the last few days two topics. One topic is some kind of curfew, the other is the theme of what's called the so-called police watch. complete lockdown or closure of the ability to move shops, restaurants, etc. Each country in its current position with first government experience and what is happening globally chooses its strategy. Our strategy is rational, it is adequate and proportionate to the dynamics of the development of the epidemic. And therefore aware of the health aspects, so health protection as the primary task of the state in this particular situation and, on the other hand, the need to ensure the functioning of both the state and the society and the economy and preserve financial stability, we make at both the Government and the Civil Protection Staff decisions that are proportionate to what is currently going on, and this will be the continuation of our fight against the covida-19 epidemic, which will remind it of a global one that none of the currently living people remembers. So we didn't have anything like this from the Spanish flu that has a transforming effect on the economy, on society, on politics, on crisis management and ultimately on strengthening the resilience of health systems. The only way to solve this is to be responsible, to coordinate activities with other partners and find consensus in society in the fight against covida-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10239	Thank you very much. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10240	Mr. Prime Minister, I don't agree with you at all. It's my impression, and it's not just mine that there's no strategy in the fight against the coronary virus at all, and when you mention your friendship with Mr. Slovak Prime Minister, then I'd like you to learn something from him. When he justified this move, he said: "Freedom must go hand in hand with responsibility to those who are weaker, oncological patients, older people, persons with other diseases", and a member of your extended commission of government to fight covid said yesterday, and that the pandemic should actually be allowed to spread freely and kill between 0.1 or 0.2% of the population by the masquerade of the elderly and the sick. That's where we differ. I agree with you, it's a matter of strategy and it's a matter of organisation, and that's why I asked you this question, but it seems that the crown crisis has found you, that there is neither an organization nor a strategy. People walk the streets or know that they are infected, have no symptoms, some of them will infect others, most of them will not bring difficult health conditions, but some will die. You haven't prepared anything for the prime minister, your capacities are insufficient, and your system is about to break. And now in the end we hear the other day that soon the covid will be diagnosed without testing, without testing. Well, it's really an honor, really strategic, thoughtful and top-of-the-line organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10241	The 8th question will be asked by representative Ante Kujundzic, Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10242	Thank you, President HS. Dear Minister Malenica. During the election campaign and after the election itself, you and your ministry have essentially announced a circular reform of regional and local administrations and self-government, and has been apostrophe as the most sound thing to reduce the number of local officials, namely deputy mayors, mayors, mayors and a reduction of the number of members in the representative body. You know that MOST has already proposed this law to the Parliament, but the government has rejected it, in fact, to make a more comprehensive and comprehensive legal solution. But from that solution, the government's proposal still has no sign, and on the other hand time leaks, 2021 is actually an election year and all those who want to consume the choice themselves should already know the rules of the game by which they can play. So we have two months to pass that law because in the election year we can't change it anymore. My question is simply, what are you waiting for, actually when you plan on letting the law go into a public debate, bringing it to the government, and having it brought to a meeting, actually where the whole story is stuck? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10243	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10244	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question, so here I can answer you that by the end of the week the law will go to public consultation. So, as we are, means a package of laws means the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the City of Zagreb and the Law on Local Elections. So, through these changes, as we have announced, we are going to streamline the number of local officials, reduce the members of representative bodies, regulate the issue of electronic sessions, increase transparency in the work of units of local self-government so that this is one package with which we will go out for public consultation and so by the end of the year, so vote this law or this package of laws here in the Croatian Parliament. So that was clear in the HDZ programme and in the Government's programme, and so we're going in this direction to strengthen therefore and local self-government units, to strengthen their fiscal capacities. We will also in this package of laws and change those, those situations and those elements that we consider to have been problematic over the past few years so that this is one of these change packages that we hope to join soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10245	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10246	Thank you. Well, unfortunately, I'm not too happy with the answer because the rest of us are told at the end of this week that you should go to public consultation, which on the other hand means that we have a little less than 2 months to pass laws that we should actually reduce the number of local officials and members of the representative body. But since you're Mr. Malenica and the government didn't do this job in time because that's what's important, and we're going to agree on that, it's unclear how such an important thing can be brought into such a short time. It is unclear, on the other hand, that a comprehensive reform can be reduced to a law that will eventually be passed in an urgent parliamentary procedure. In other words, we break a very important thing and put it on the agenda at about 5 to 12. I suggest something else to you, I suggest you essentially stop making it difficult to pass and the bill of this law already take the proposal of the Most Independent Lists, supplement it, we will, of course, support it as such, because unlike you, we accept and support legal quality solutions by other political actors. Finally, I want to warn you of the following. Did you know that at this point, some of the mayors and mayors are already reviewing the competitions for leading posts to actually arrest deputies who will lose the right to candidacy and to exist in the local elections that are coming? So I'm asking you for a written answer, actually if you have any knowledge that there are such cases, whether they are informed of the administrative inspection of the Ministry of Justice and Justice, and I'm asking you in writing to answer what you're planning. to implement the law itself in order to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here I'm going to finish to actually [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to prevent this kind of practice, because I'm afraid we'll instead... [[Finish it, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10247	Comrade Kujundzic I beg you to finish, you have four minutes and please hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10248	Excuse me, thank you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10249	Thank you. It is now up to counterpart Zeljko Sacic, who asks the prime minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10251	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, as you're familiar with in '96. The year was concluded an agreement on the realisation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, in this agreement, the article does not know which, seventh, mentions that within 6 months, it is necessary to access the conclusion of a war damage compensation agreement, compensations, etc., that is '96. Was. In 2015, Croatia filed an appeal to the International Court in The Hague, the court, among other things, by the content of the verdict, as you know in the final section, tells you to encourage, encourage and in any way intensify the negotiations of the conflicted, accused parties to resolve the issue of compensation from the wars. In one fatal meeting for Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, 2018, when Vukic came to Zagreb on the sidelines of that meeting, you held a meeting with the president of the Republic of Serbia, Vukic, and to the enthusiasm of all the Croatian public, the patriots asked the question of war damage. Unfortunately, you got the answer you got, among other things, Vukic answered that he was asking the same question. Meanwhile, Mr. Bosnjakovic received Mrs. Nela Kuburovic here a year ago, the minister of justice was not asked at all, and the war damage amounts to more than EUR 43 billion which is material, which is immaterial. You have opened these conditions are open for the opening of Chapter 23. Serbia and the Europeans, so please do what you will and when you will ask for compensation for the war damage of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10252	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10253	Thank you, beautiful representative Sacic, you have well quoted the '96 normalisation agreement, the efforts that were made by different Croatian governments during the course of the proceedings before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and you have also made a good allocation of the meeting with the president of Serbia, Vukic, who was here in 2018, the topic is on the table, continuously during meetings of Croatian and Serbian officials, and we will put it on the agenda until this issue is resolved. It is part of a broader dialogue that we have with Serbia, resolving open issues, whether it is about finding the missing, processing war crimes or a wider normalisation of relations, protecting minorities, Croats living in Serbia or Serbs living in Croatia. Thus, in modern times, age 25. After the end of the war operations in Croatia, 22. After a peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov, 25. After the Dayton Paris Peace Agreement, several of the issues remaining to be resolved remain focused on the activities of the Croatian government and all the competent authorities, especially the competent foreign and European affairs ministry, which takes care of this in forming a policy towards Serbia. Anyway, this topic is still with us, and I'm glad you saw it again in public today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10254	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10255	Mr. President, of course, I'm not completely satisfied with your answer because it should have been done and could have been done more. For example, we have at our disposal many instruments and how to settle the dispute peacefully with the negotiations of diplomatic, political, good neighbourly, as you call them, this one with the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it was a long time ago, and on the other hand there are certain international legal instruments, from arbitration still, certain procedures. But most important Mr. Prime Minister, your ministry, this year even 2020. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice restricts and suggests that at the request of desperate people, campsmen of Serbian concentration camps or other victims do not act in the way they place it in the complaint request in the Republic of Croatia where they are suing, means the Republic of Serbia for compensation for damage damage damage damage, and your ministries suggest to them that they reject these claims if they are not competent, which is not true and international practice rejects it. That's what's wrong with your part of the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10256	We move to the 10th question, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will be asked by representative Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10257	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Mr President-in-Office of the Government, 2019. 5 mayors of northern counties sent a letter of intent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the conclusion of a development agreement for northern and central Croatia, and according to the concept of an agreement signed and one large part realised for Slavonia. It is also included in this government's programme at the request of the Reformists. We are now ahead of defining operational programmes on the allocation of EUR 22 billion from the new European budget, but also by defining priorities for the 10 billion interventions for economic recovery from the root of the crisis. These counties of northern and central Croatia together have over a million inhabitants and want equal treatment with all other regions in Croatia in terms of everything, especially with the withdrawal of funds from the EU. The government must give units of local and regional self-government a chance and support in the application of EU projects so that these projects can absorb as much funds as possible from the European Funds, the funds available to us and thus quickly get out of this crown of crisis which has hit Croatia's north, especially our processing industry and our craftsmanship, which is literally on its knees. So, she would pray specifically when the agreement is signed for the north and when will funds be provided to support units of local and regional self-government for the application of European projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10258	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10259	Thank you very much, Mr. Martincevic. Here, I thank you too, and I see at least two colleagues from Varazdin County and Representative Štromar and Agent Strick. I think the government very well understood the consensus position not only of the Varazdin County but of the other 4 counties how important cooperation in northwestern Croatia is to model the very successful "Project Slavonia" launched by our government after the 2016 elections. where, as you know from 18.5 billion kuna, we have so far arranged 16.4 billion kuna for 5 Slavonian counties. The step we have already made by changing, in our opinion, deeply unfair divisions of Croatia to 2 points of the region, which were therefore decisions of earlier governments somewhere in 2012 or '13. With a new map of regional support that will allow the counties of the northwest, northwestern part of Croatia 10% higher, so these Pannonian counties will get 25% higher, and the northwest 10% higher, so much fairer this division now. What we have done and put focus in the government's programme to the north, and that means that through the activities of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, we will join dialogue with 5 counties, make a development agreement, make quality bases and for operational programmes to consume funds from the 7-year-old and multi-annual financial framework, so 2021-'27. for which I note that through the negotiations we have provided EUR 12.9 billion in total for Croatia. These additional 10.6 billion from the EU instrument of the next generation for which the government, as we have said more than once publicly, is currently developing a National Recovery and Resistance Programme which will be the basis to withdraw from 2021 to 2026 without that participation of 15% of national co-financing, whether it is grants or the possibility of favourable loans or through the Fair Transition Fund, part of the funds for agriculture, part of the funds for so-called. The EU's draft programme. On the other hand, the competent ministry and Minister Tramišak, who is well recovering, will continue dialogue with all mayors and in the coming months create a legal framework that will allow a focus in the next decade on the development of these counties. We understand that the covida-19 crisis has caused economic and financial consequences across Europe, throughout the world, and unfortunately in the processing industry that you are talking about, which is characteristic in the counties of northwestern Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10260	Thank you. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10261	Here I thank you for presenting everything that has been invested in Slavonia, which of course makes us happy and indeed in the term of this Government we expect this treatment for the north of Croatia as well. We have already discussed this many times and the mayors have negotiated, the mayors have discussed and delivered initiatives, demands, data to the former regional development ministers, the initiative has been sent to the new minister of regional development of European funds, everything we have heard from you in your response we support, and I only ask you now to move from word to action to say so and to indeed all that we have agreed on and concreteise to see concrete developments in northern Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10262	Question 11 will be asked by representative Goran Ivanovic, asked by Culture and Media Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister. 26 publishers broadcasting 29 programs, 138 radio publishers broadcasting 149 programs today, while the number of providers of electronic publications is 276 with 336 publications. The Law on Electronic Media was adopted in 2009 and has not changed significantly since then, while broadcasting technologies have changed significantly. What this law provides, what this law wants to do, and I am particularly pleased as a man who also partly comes from the media is a greater percentage of course both Croatian music and Croatian programs and independent producers and everything that will improve our entire media space. What may particularly need to be pointed out is that 15% of the total revenues that public, state institutions pay for their broadcasting services and promotions will end up precisely on these small televisions that are not covered by that old law. But what is certain, though, is that the public has actually seen an amendment to this new law that the Ministry of Culture wants to introduce censorship with this new law, so I ask how do you comment on the new proposal of the Electronic Media Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10264	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, thank you for this question. Of course, as I have said publicly, I firmly reject any interpretation that anyone in the Republic of Croatia would propose a provision in 2020 that could be understood as censorship since we know that censorship is a crime. So, contextualising this debate, the law was being prepared throughout last year and was in the public debate at the beginning of this year in the first row because of harmonising with the new Audiovisual Media Services Directive and this concrete article concerning electronic publications in the public debate had five comments, only two of which had problems with the solutions that we are proposing. And what is proposed? Therefore, for those serious infringements of the Law on Electronic Media for which penalties are provided and in accordance with the Penal Code, this is a question of the protection of minors, the issue of preventing the publication of content that encourages violence or hatred, the question of preventing the publication of content that encourages acts of terrorism, crimes related to child pornography or crimes related to racism and xenophobia, it is proposed to establish a clear responsibility of the electronic publications of the owners of publishers or editors, since there is a serious problem of spreading so-called "proliferation". or a colloquial called hate speech for which, given that the largest number of these comments is anonymous, it is not possible to determine the author. It should certainly be stressed that this bill refers to electronic publications, not social networks. You may need to see how this is arranged in other European countries, it is easy to look at it, you go to portals of the electronic version of the key media, and there are different models of how these inappropriate content is suppressed, whether there is mandatory registration, limited time at all allowed to comment, part of the articles you can, therefore, not comment on there are those who are more actively removing comments, but nowhere is it left to one complete irresponsibility or lack of any responsibility for these content being shared. We will have, I believe a very interesting debate content is always so about the Law on Electronic Media in a few weeks and in this House of Higher Education there will be an opportunity to talk more specifically about all these solutions. I'm going to repeat at the end what's key, so there's a way to end this anonymous one, in fact, the flood of anonymous comments, which share inappropriate content, and from which the public can't be protected in any way. I would mention in the end that what are the key principles of our media legislation is co-regulation, self-regulatory. The media themselves see the problem, you saw that ten days ago they joined together in an action where they stopped the possibility of commenting for 2 hours because they themselves are aware that this is also a threat to the credibility of the media, and of course we will insist on it is media literacy, education, education as a key tool in preventing the spread of inappropriate content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10266	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10267	Thank you very much. I thank you for the answer, of course, that today's new time and new technologies are looking for new challenges, and this legal solution certainly wants to end some of the phenomena that you've been talking about here, and of course these are the phenomena where we have anonymous people who comment and who are basically talking about hate, and in this way they may encourage some others to some works. Of course, I would like to say that this law certainly needs to establish those standards and regimes that, for a certain period ahead of us, would create a framework that will be much better and more effective without, of course, holding back the media freedom that is independent and unhindered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10268	Let's go to issue number 12, Anka representative Mrak Taritas asks him to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10269	Someone's got to turn it off, and thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Croatia had the first confirmed patient of Covid on 25 February this year. From then until yesterday, we had 52,660 reported cases of which 594 died. Since then, it's been more than eight months since we've had all possible combinations of measures and decisions that can be imagined. Meetings can, gatherings can't, school can't, school can't, work from home needs, work from home doesn't need, cafes and restaurants can't work, cafes and restaurants can't work, we can't go to a neighboring municipality, we can't go, whether it's gonna be a lockdown or not, and then even worse, some are allowed what others aren't. Hundreds of such measures, no head and no tail, and no clear explanation, people are at the edge of their nerves right now. This uncertainty and lack of a clear plan is what makes our citizens nervous and stressed. You've completely pushed the council aside, and neither does the government appear directly, but all decisions including those that should be strictly political, and they limit the rights and freedoms of the people you've transferred to the hands of an officer who has neither the power nor the power to do so. Mr. Prime Minister, when will you finally, Government, and not headquarters come up with a clear idea with scenarios that can happen in the coming months and a list of measures that will introduce each of these scenarios? When are we finally going to see something that at least resembles a plan that people could rely on and be held up to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10270	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10271	Thank you very much for your lovely representative Mrak Taritas, as regards the activities of the Croatian Government, the Civil Protection Staff, he is both legitimate and constitutional. The bodies that have been given the authority to make decisions after the Covida-19 epidemic has been declared are fighting it effectively, taking care of the health of our fellow citizens, taking care of the economy, the finances and, of course, the general atmosphere in society. I'll remind you, we're through spring, and it's convenient for the public this way because you've listed a lot of data to remember that on May 23rd to June 16, we had a total of, you know, how many infected, 12. In 25 days after we gradually opened Croatia on 27 April, 4 and 11 May, we had only 12 infected from 23 May to 16 June. What does that mean? That we beat the virus in the first half, no mockery, no leniency, no facts. Then what did we do? We made it possible for our tourist season to be around 50% of last year's record. What have we done with that? We have made our decisions possible, our choice of economic downturn smaller than anticipated. What was the opposition doing? The opposition is if you remember at the time of spring she had three thesis. The first issue is the constitutionality and legality of the government's work and the headquarters of the epidemic. What did the Constitutional Court finally say? That the decisions, the way they work, were both constitutional and legal. It's been months. The second was an initiative on whether it would be protective equipment. Remember those topics? Where the departments are protected, where the masks are. Who secured that? She has secured the government, in time for the health system, for the social system, for all those in need. The third thesis, how to help the economy. Those who kept their jobs, whether the jobs held opposition or did so by the Government with timely support measures for the private sector, which will total in 2020. 8.1 billion kuna, that our number of insurance companies today is higher in the context of this 2020 than before the February epidemic. Who has secured salaries to the public sector, the state sector, pensions, the functioning of the whole state, timely exiting to domestic financial markets, foreign financial markets, to a swap line agreement with the European Central Bank that stabilised the issue of the kuna course, to significant co-operation and with pension funds. Who did all this? Well, it didn't just happen, so it didn't all work out by some invisible hand, maybe this government did. The headquarters of everything it does under the law of permanent, permanent supervision of the government. There are no decisions formally made by the Staff without her passing the government before that. My office, specifically. All the time. As far as the current situation is concerned, forcing topics, lockdown and curfew in a political sense, I can understand, but also, I can spread and I will do it today, they are not an option, because they are not necessary. Look at today's numbers on Tuesday and look at last Tuesday So you'll only see one small percentage of the growth in seven days. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What does that mean? The measures are working. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10272	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10273	Thank you very much, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly the answer to my question and expected. Real life is outside this assembly and real life is behind the Ban Courts. These are people who live and these are human fates. Equally, when we were in lockdown that the headquarters prescribed that we all have to stand on our left foot 20 minutes a day at the open window, we would do it. It's not like that today. Today, people around us are really worried, people are scared. Some are in fear of disease, some are in fear of economic uncertainty, some are in fear of the unpredictability of the day - to - day changes they have. This headquarters has no psychologist or communication expert. Likewise, we've witnessed them making statements about how they're coming to mind. They jump into each other's mouths and themselves and announce some of the measures that may be, which may not be. It's a serious crisis, and I couldn't agree more with you. Therefore, Prime Minister, this crisis is affecting the psyche of our citizens and it is time for you to stop hiding under the Staff's lap, come up with a serious scenario of developments and plans for the next. You must immediately ensure some level of predictability and plan in all of this and curb this daily playing with people's nerves and consciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10274	Question No. 13, Representative Andrea Maric sets up Health Minister William Berosha, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister Berosch. In this months-long pandemic, more and more accumulated health problems are coming to light. From financial problems and huge losses, inadequate restrictions, huge drug debts, organisational difficulties all the way to human resources problems. It is absurd that now that health care professionals are missing, they are at a loss of strength, and our health care is under collapse, as many as 1277 healthcare professionals are waiting to perform a 12-month traineeship to obtain the conditions for passing a professional exam and obtain a license. At the Employment Service, they wait a year, two, and some even five, and at that time they must not be employed outside the profession waiting for an internship. These are health graduates and magistrates and high-school health guidance, physiotherapy, radiological technology, working therapy, sanitary engineering, medical-laboratory diagnostics, primacy, dental, pharmaceutical technicians, health-laboratory technicians. The healthcare system needs them urgently. Why don't you hire them? Why don't you hire them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10276	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10277	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentarians. I've made this question very clear through media space myself. It should be said that traineeship is a very specific educational-work process during which workers are trained for independent work. When we talk about this view, about this problem, we need to give a certain historical picture of solving these problems. So by 2010, about all the members volunteered, which, of course, is not good. Then, in 2012, a measure was introduced called SOR or training of workers without establishing a working relationship that lasted some time. The fee for.../incomprehensible/... during that time was growing, so that eventually it was 2750 kn. The active measures of employment of this Government since 2018 have taken place with a different way of paying the traineeship in such a way as to enable HZZ to pay the traineeship of 2200 members in 2018. 2019 for 1100. The fact is, for this year, he found funds for only 170 trainees who could do a traineeship. Furthermore, health institutions, the type of hospital, can, through a work contract for a certain period of time and hire trainees themselves, but because of the elements that you have self-absorbed, which is the financial situation in the health system, they are reluctant to do so. I agree that it is necessary to approach this issue and I said myself, the Ministry of Health is in contact with the Employment Service and we think that the Ministry of Labour should ultimately be involved, in order to solve this problem and to allow these people who have completed their education and have passed the form of a traineeship and to finally be available and to be available in the healthcare system as future employees. So this is about these elements, I've told you the dynamics of reduction over the years, we're talking, as I said with the Employment Service, and I think we're going to find some solution for those people who are at this point in the waiting phase. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10278	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10279	Thank you very much for your answer. But I have to say, here, you've brought us the history of all the events, you're saying that you're going to find solutions. We have to realize we've been in the pandemic for over seven months and there's no time. The fact is that they're called pensioners, that doctors in hospitals don't arrive, they can't work at that murderous pace anymore, and we really need to find a strategy and plan to solve all these problems, and with the pandemic and with what we're really saying. I must say that these young people came to me personally and I actually thank them for the trust shown, that was about two weeks ago and in several talks with their representatives, and after I have collected additional information myself and about the existing active employment policy measures in HZZ's jurisdiction that you mentioned about volunteering opportunities, I must conclude that the current existing solutions are unacceptable. Some institutions discuss one or more places, and you yourself said that there were quotas for the health sector a few months ago, it represents only 170 traineeships for all interests at the country-wide level. If the internship is mandatory, why don't you make it possible? If that's impossible, why don't you shut it down? And in fact, you have different options than the mention of abolishing the traineeship for certain occupations as it is in most EU countries, that these people can start working in the health system and that, of course, they are paid by regulations, hospital memos, or that you can discuss urgent competitions for traineeships, and that these people are going from day one to day, and then with the Minister of Finance and the Government as soon as possible to put together a financial structure. So, time is gone, I ask you to invite the representatives of these people to talk, to find solutions because we can't wait any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10280	Thank you. We are now going to the 14th issue of MP Nikolina Baradic asks him about the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10282	I thank the esteemed president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. The law on subsidising housing loans stipulates that calls for citizens will be issued by the end of 2020, and given the great interest of young families for this measure that we witnessed by a large number of requests received in the last call that was called in September, my question is, will the Government continue to implement this measure in 2021?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10283	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10284	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Dear Parliamentarians. Since you are relatively short here in the Assembly, allow me only two short sentences to remind you that this good and demographic measure has yet to begin at the time of 2011 at the time or when your fellow speaker, Mr Branko Bačić, was then a resolute minister, and in 2011 to 2015 this measure was obviously considered completely unnecessary. The Prime Minister, as well as the current prime minister here today, is your fellow parliamentary representative, and then the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Štromar, in 2017, returned the measure in question to the subsidisation system and will conclude, by the end of this year, that measure 17,500 young families will address their housing issue. What was the interest in this measure enough to say that by this year, one call a year was called, and this year, for the first time in 2020, we made two calls out of which applications for the last call ended on 19 October were more than 4,650, so in this last competition, the record number of applications. By the beginning of this week, i.e. until the beginning of this current session, 15.170 subsidized housing loans were granted, with a maximum of 4.458 in the City of Zagreb, then in Osijek-Baranja County 1,499, 1.289 in Zagreb County, 1.006 in Primorje-goranska, 944 in Split-Dalmatia, 570 in Međimurska, 550 in Varazdinska and 540 in Vukovar-Srijem County. Out of the total number of approved subsidies, 9.501 families solved or resolved their living issue by buying an apartment, 4.110 by buying a house, and 1.559 by building a new house. That this measure is also demographically confirmed by the information on 2,182 children born or adopted during the period of implementation of this measure. As part of the subsidy programme, subsidies from the state budget have been paid through credit institutions in total amounting to more than 248 million kuna, and the budget for the following year provides for an additional 50 million kuna as a continuity or continuation of this measure for the competition in question, which we are preparing and I am sure that we will call it in March 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10285	Before our colleague Baradić's appearance, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10286	Thank you, Mr. President. There's been an injury. The 132nd century 5. The Rules of Procedure which states that the question must be brief and clear and as a rule that it can be answered immediately and without preparation. As the minister read... three pages of preparation the MP asked a complicated question contrary to the Rules of Procedure, so please, yes, but the minister said that he was only new in the Parliament with which he injured the Rules of Procedure, so here I am asking that we stick to the Rules of Procedure and the Actuaries, that these settled issues do not reduce the integrity of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10287	Comrade Bauk, you've been in HS for a long time, I remember when you asked the same questions to the president of your government, perhaps not you, but some others, and I think this comment as much as we try to be funny wasn't particularly funny. Here you go, Comrade Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10288	I would also like to thank my colleagues, Bauk, for supporting the new young forces in HS. I would like to thank the Ministers for their response. Here as a young person, I am aware of the importance of buying an apartment or a house for planning the future, and I welcome the continued funding of this measure that has made life easier for many young families under the conditions of the pandemic that we live in, and the need is even more pronounced, so it is important for the state to create an incentive framework for young families and to strengthen the purchasing power and credit capacity of young people. I believe that the government will also find funds for a successful demographic measure in the next financially demanding times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10289	Let's move on, now Vice President Željko Reiner will refer the question to Health Minister William Berosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10290	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Minister, some media, some individuals, have been asking questions about the readiness of the Croatian hospital system for the new wave of epidemics that we are witnessing right now. It is generally the same who claimed that during the last wave that covid was actually no more serious than flu or cavities, that it was a delusion, a fiction, to justify the restriction of human rights, they put out the epidemic by saying that HDZ organised the elections in July because it stood well in the polls, and that in the autumn there will be no epidemic at all, etc., etc. They now, as a rule, create a puck, drama, claim it's a disaster, call a curfew, and so forth. Can you answer us, do we have enough hospitals for this moment, enough beds, enough sick, enough equipment, mostly respirators and enough medical staff to deal with this real and real monster? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10291	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, that the Croatian health system, primarily hospitally and successfully so far, is adapting and I think it can respond to this stage of the epidemic. According to this, 20,000 beds, hospital beds in the healthcare system, of which 14460 acute ones, we also have intensive beds over 1450. We also have a relatively sufficient number of specialists, but we should take into account, of course, that they are also getting sick during their duties. So we have an infectologist over 1190, 1439 interns, anesthesiologists and engineers we have 915, and pulmologist 182. These are the personnel that are at our disposal at the moment and we are trying to redistribute them through the mobilization decision to respond to the situation that is at the moment. However, we also have to look at the numbers that are unsuspecting, mathematics is very clear there, we, if we have 2500 newly infected a day, and if we predict that we will hospitalize 10 in one worse scenario percent, and 7.5% in the optimal scenario, then we can see that in 10 days of hospitalisation these 250 patients will need 3750 beds per day. If the time of hospitalization is extended due to the severity of the disease, even 5000 beds. We have these beds, the second question is how they're deployed. That is why we tried to adapt the strategy we have to respond to these challenges and centralize these patients. Why centralize them? It is precisely because patients with Covid-19 do not enter all health institutions and thus contribute to the spread of the disease within the health system. This would have a very bad effect on the usual health care that needs to be continued. So we formed primary respiratory intensive centres in all four of the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia. In Dubrava, such a centre, in Zagreb should be in Dubrava where those most severe Covid-19 patients concentrate. We have also worked out scenarios in each of the regions for medium-sized patients and for mild patients. We are preparing for significantly larger figures, and we need to know that, and we will do everything possible to respond to these challenges in the context of the given circumstances with which we are now at our disposal. What is a fact, as I have already said, that doctors get sick during their duties, we have new infected people every day who are in self-insulation. However, we also have those who have recovered from this disease, and they represent this force on which we will primarily base our thinking on the future. I think that there are great challenges ahead of us, but we're going to give everything within the health system to adapt, to quickly transform as we did once this spring when this transformation went both ways and restrictions, and now we're going towards centralised personnel and accommodation capacities, and I believe that we're going to be able to respond in an adequate way. I'd just like to say the following, they're calling us that at this point we don't have 300 respirators what our plan is to have in Dubrava. No country has 250-300 respirators in any warehouse ready for any kind of threat. We have them, but they're in the system and we're doing everything we can to pull them out when the need in Dubrava or somewhere else is current because pulling those respirators is gonna stop operating on a cold program somewhere. So we're balancing All these measures and we're trying to find the best answer. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10293	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10294	Thank you very much for the very clear answer. However, I do need to say something since health debt and the functioning of health care have been discussed. I think it is very important to make it very clear that our health care works perfectly and it worked, and I believe that in the future and primarily thanks to doctors, nurses and their healthcare staff. The fact is that Croatia stands out less than 7% of GDP for healthcare according to its opportunities. The EU average is approximately 9.8% of gross national income, France, Germany and Sweden say more than 11%, Austria with which we like to compare, the Netherlands and Denmark single out more than 10% of gross national income. This is, of course, a relative measure, which sets out 2, 3, 4 and 5 times in EUR per capita more than Croatia by absolute EU measures. And then I find it unclear that with this level of health care, with this availability of health care that we have, which is at a very high level, not 3, 4 or 5 times weaker than these countries, people wonder how suddenly there are debts. 25% of the resources are given for drugs, so why are we surprised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10295	Now it's Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn, the question will be asked to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10296	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Slavonia project is something you often mention, and here today in the debate has been mentioned several times, 10 times in Slavonia at Council meetings for Slavonia, each time you announce large investments, whenever we mention Slavonia here you pour numbers, statistics and assure us that in Slavonia it is never better thanks to this project. The fact is that through various EU projects, huge money is shared, but I am interested in something else. As this money is distributed, do those who really need it to invest in development, achieve additional value, create new jobs, etc., or are they shared politically similar members of your party?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10297	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10298	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic, and I believe you have been on at least one of these 10 tips for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, although unfortunately it seems to me that it is not a very good custom for MPs from IV and V units, the electoral units that all receive calls have the practice that those who are part of the parliamentary majority appear to us, and those who are not something more rare, I think it is not good, however, that format is also imagined as a permanent framework of consultation, dialogue, discussion and reflection of the timely, contentual, detailed recognition of the priorities of what we shared through local engagement, through national means, through European means, through the mobilisation of private investors we can do for Slavonia. In 2016 we told Slavonia we should help now and immediately and in a way that we were aware of the problems related to the economy and the problems relating to the issue of demographic revitalisation, the issues relating to emigration, the issue of the still present consequences of aggression on the Republic of Croatia, the fact that all Slavonian counties have suffered a great sacrifice in this regard. And that is why, through this framework which was carefully pictured in the 2016 election campaign and later realized, we have laid the foundations where here today, 4 years later we can see that of those 18.5 I think we already have 16.5 or even 16.6 billion kuna agreed for Slavonia. You're asking for what projects? Unfortunately, here I do not have an interactive map that we usually show at the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which very clearly shows the public how much this has been done in terms of agriculture, how much this has been done in terms of cohesion policy, how much it has been done in terms of infrastructure investments. There is no resistor, no project that has not been carefully channeled towards all counties, there is, of course, the front and your county, so Osijek-Baranja County, which has had the most projects and which has withdrawn the most funds, which I think is very good. The logic of the distribution of funds is certainly not the logic that you are alluding to, that we finance, for example, cities where mayors from one party are in relation to projects where mayors from another party, there is no such approach with us. Here, ask here your colleagues from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, the city of Rijeka, Istria County of Pula, if there may be any discrimination, see investments in the Rijeka hospital, pulse hospital, Istrian ipslon, addressing the shipbuilding problem, there is no triage of this government by the political resemblance of the local level. It is neither in Slavonia nor in other parts of Croatia. If there was such a thing then I would hear it from our elected democratically elected county leaders, and these are the mayors, because unlike the previous governments, no one else, and ours has not established a system of six months of consultations with the mayors, the presidents of the associations of cities and the Croatian community of municipalities. Their feedback never signaled discrimination to me, if you see somewhere Enlighten us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10299	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10300	Thank you very much, and you know the Prime Minister that I like to read, maybe the mayors should read our media, though they're not Deutsche Welle or Allgemaine Zeitung but they're our media. So I'll tell you what the media is writing about carefully channeled projects you're talking about. Citiram, the family of HDZ, Franje Lucic, ministers' father and mayor's son, received 17 million kuna, one title, another company of Lucic's son Tomislav Lucic, who has not so far been engaged in agriculture, received 14.8 million kuna for agriculture. The media says that the money was won by another son of Lucic, Domagoj Lucic, and that of 37,000 kuna. So much was won by the brother-in-law of Lucic's daughter, and the same amount was given to Lucic's brother-in-law's son. The cousin of Lucic's wife also received 111,000 kuna, but that is not the end. Minister Aladrović's father, Marijan Aladrovic, will guess from which party he received 372,000 kuna, as well as Shogor Marijan Aladrovic's got 111,000 kuna, there is also Daniel Tomaševic, son of Mayor Alojz Tomasevic, who also received 111,000 kunas, etc., etc. Now to start getting into livers, curtains, neighbors, hips, acquaintances that connect probably the only HDZ membership card, I don't know what they'd come up with. While the people in this covid crisis no longer know whether or not they will welcome tomorrow for HDZ, there is obviously no crisis, Mr Plenkovic. How many young people will return from abroad for this kind of smart investment? And you can see why I don't want to stand on one of your PR projects and money that's being shared like this, and it doesn't realize and it doesn't create a future for the east of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10301	You're not going to hurt your colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure? Okay. Let's go to the 17th question, MP Ivan Radic asked the minister or should have asked the EU Minister for Regional Development and Funds, but she couldn't hang out with us, so he appointed him to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10303	Thank you, President HS. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. At the 11th session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem held in Nasice on 5 October, significant progress was found in the negotiation of projects compared to the previous session held in December 2019 in Vukovar. The fact that, from 30 November 2019 to 31 August 2020, a rise in the negotiation of projects in 5 Slavonian counties of as much as 5.2 billion kuna was achieved. In the period from 18 October 2016 to 31 August 2020, 16.53 billion kuna and 88.16% of the target amount of 18.7 billion kuna were agreed. The figures are more than clear, and that is proof that this is not a PR project, but that the real figures are behind this. In addition, as Slavonac, I am particularly pleased with the support of the advice of the new national classification of the statistical regions of the Republic of Croatia, thus correcting the injustice that was done to the east of Croatia during the government of the SDP. Keeping in mind the conclusion of Appendix No. 2nd Development Agreement in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, and when we talk about investments through eu funds in Osijek-Baranja County, I would like to ask you a response that large projects could be co-financed from the EU such as the Pelješka Bridge and the Zagreb Rotor, especially through the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10304	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10305	Thank you very much, Mr. Radic. Here I believe that you have a slightly different picture of the activities of the project “Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem” than your colleague from the 4th constituency, and perhaps the result of these elections where you won 8 seats, and the SDP only 3 speaks about how much anyone understands, appreciates and respects our citizens in Slavonia the results of this project over the past 4 years. It's still the best mirror, maybe even better than reading, say, just one portal. As for the activities at the last meeting in Nasice which was very high-quality and well prepared, this time in your county of Osijek-Baranja County, I think it is important to mention that an add-on to the 2nd Development Agreement where its indicative value has increased to 11.7 billion kuna, it includes as much as 67 projects. When you mentioned the Pelješki bridge, when you mentioned the Zagreb Rotor, the fact is that these are among the more visible projects that we finance through European funds. One that also provides the territorial connection of the Croatian state for the first time with the southern part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and this worth 330 million kuna for which we are from the Ministry of Transport, which from the European funds from the national level seems to me to be 320 million kuna. There is a list of projects and proposals and suggestions relating to the area of as much as 18 in the area of bioeconomy, tourism, transport, health, nutrition, agriculture, all aspects of social infrastructure and economic development of Slavonia. What is the key task ahead of us now and it is good to repeat to the Croatian public is that we will have two modules. One module of regular funding through operational programmes where we care about a partnership agreement for the seven-year budget, this second module eu next generation of national recovery and resilience programmes. The real smart, wise triage can lead us to the fact that those total when we add 683m euros in quality elections for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, so the total amount of money, not counting on the implementation of the current financial perspective, is now 24.2 billion euros for the next 7 plus 3 years. This is also a chance for the north of Croatia, it is also a chance for Slavonia that we have for objective reasons whether we have a great emphasis, but this is also a chance for the Dalmatian Zagora, and for Lika, and for Gorski Kotar and Banovina for all those areas of Croatia where further efforts are needed from the central level of state and national planning using the leverages of EU financial development. I'm particularly glad that in the focus of one topic that's important for the city of Osijek from which you come, which is building a new KBC Osijek, I know that we talked about it, that you strongly advocate it. It is part of strengthening the overall health system, especially these major centres that must bear the greatest burden. It will be an emblematic project in the coming years for the development of the health system in Osijek-Baranja County and in the capital Slavonia and your city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10306	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10307	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I thank you for your response, I hope and I am sure my fellow citizen Hajdukovic heard that. Namely, the government in Osijek has just had SDP in the past 8 years, all major projects in the area of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County are the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Osijek-Baranja County. The project you listed in KBC Osijek is important not only to Osijek, not only to Osijek-Baranja County, but indeed to the entire east of Croatia that needs it and really deserves it. On this road you have full support, especially given how everything is planned, there we have touched KBC, has an impact on what is most important, which is to improve the quality of life in the east of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10308	Thank you, too. Now we'll answer two more questions and then we'll take a break. The first is now up to counterpart Štromar, he asks Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10310	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister. Here, let me ask Mr. Maric, Minister Maric, and this is a question that is very interested in the citizens of Croatia, it is about rebuilding houses, energy rebuilding houses. We had a September competition, there were a lot of people and more than 12,000. However, 30 per cent will be able to get them somewhere in that tender of funds that are planned. A quick and simple question, when will be the next contest? I hope here very soon. And how much money will be provided for that contest?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10311	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10312	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Štromar, therefore you know family houses make up about 65% of the housing fund in the Republic of Croatia, and in terms of total energy consumption at national level, it is about 40%. Last year, this year, I'm sorry, June 25th, two public calls were made. One was horizontal, for all citizens, owners of family houses in the Republic of Croatia regardless of social status. The competition was closed, its total value was 210 million and 900 thousand kuna. Just the fact that 7386 applications have been received, so far 2000 requests have been processed, of which 1337 have been positively assessed. That's the part of the contest where 60% of the eligible costs are co-financed. A public tender or call for vulnerable groups of citizens at risk of energy poverty, which is fully funded, has also been announced, worth 32 million kuna. The call was open by the end of the year. A total of 100 requests have been received so far, and 85 positive, 20 positive processed from them have been processed, so now we have to watch the termology "positive". Positively rated reports 25. Otherwise, as far as further steps are concerned, you are right, the fund has already announced that we can be expected during the first quarter of 2021. a new public call. It would be an apostrophe and we can also call the European component, given that the European Commission has recognized and defined the reconstruction of buildings as the central point of economic recovery, so after the pandemic situation and wants to at least double the annual, annual recovery rate of the existing construction fund through regulatory and financial support. Otherwise, as regards this next competition and further steps, we assume that the conditions will be the same, at the same time to all citizens who may have either been late or may not have passed in this present competition, the documentation should continue to be valid, notably that energy certificate or the Energy Review Report, which, of course, requires a certain cost or citizens have already invested certain resources. What will be the amount of funds? It will be defined in the plan to use funds obtained from the sale of emission units for the period '21-'25. which is currently in the works, so the total amount will be defined on the basis of this, but in any case, of course, the intention is to increase further according to the possibilities of the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10313	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10314	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I thank you on behalf of all those citizens who have already collected the documentation, and it wasn't cheap, it's two to three thousand kunas. More than 12,000 have already submitted all the documentation to the fund, but not all of them could have been reported because it was one big mistake and I appeal that it should not happen again. In fact, for an hour and a half to two hours, many citizens could not report for some error on the server. I don't think that's right, and we need to keep an eye on it this time and, of course, provide a lot more resources and allow the citizens to continue to use all the documentation they collected, but also the one they handed over in the boxes when they taught before the documentation that it was valid in that box so they wouldn't have to repeat the whole procedure again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10315	Now let's go to the last question before the break. Representative Ivan Budalic will be appointed by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Budeliæ, Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10316	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, in the plan to purchase Croatian Roads for 2020 is planned to create an idea solution and environmental impact study for the Zagvozd-Imotski road length of 20 km. So I'm curious about what phase the project is in, is the public competition done, and is the documentation in question agreed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10317	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I know that this issue is very troubling for you and, of course, I support you in that we should do everything possible to make this road as soon as possible and in that sense, because Croatian roads, as you have mentioned in the question, have set out in the preparation of study and project documentation in order to be ready for funding in the next perspective. After being in collaboration with all cities and municipalities of the Croatian Roads built a visibility study, an environmental impact study bid for the said Zagvozd-Imotski road and open offers were launched, a selection decision was taken, however, a complaint was made, and we are waiting for the current response of the state commission to resolve the case. It is secured in Croatian roads 3.1 million kuna for the stated study. In parallel with this, it will go into the negotiation of all major projects so that here, after the end of this process, we go to the study, the main projects, so that the complete project documentation for the road is ready as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10319	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10320	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that the dynamic road construction plan will not deviate beyond the deadlines set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10321	I thank all of you who have participated so far in the debate we will continue at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes, and I ask our services to open windows both above and below to air space. It's 11:00.33. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats, continue with the questions, the 20th issue is now up, MP Mirela Ahmetovic will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10323	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Hospital of Dubrava has become Covid a hospital, filled with enormous speed thanks to your words of victory over the Crown, and then come to the public with frightening information about the state of it, about poor conditions for both patients and health care personnel, about food shortages, medicines and sanity equipment, and what is quite amazing in this situation is the conflict between the hospital administration and the Covid coordinator. The head of the Quality Insurance Service also stepped down. It is said from the public footage that people who need to organize the system are not competent to do so, that there are no respirators you can assure us there are enough. Doctors and nurses protest in front of the hospital, petitions are signed. The only thing you've done is take a shift from the board of directors of the board of directors of Mrs Grozdana Peric, so I'm wondering how you think that citizens will believe you when they see this chaos, this disorganization and the collapse of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10325	Thank you very much. Croatian public and Croatian citizens are well aware of how many government, how many headquarters, how many of our healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, all medical staff in the exceptional circumstances of the Covida-19 pandemic at global level make for the health of Croatian citizens. This is what our citizens know very well and they see very well and therefore, among other things, it was perhaps one of the reasons why they trusted once again in the 5 July elections of our government, I will remind you in practically 25 days of May and June of only 12 infected, remember that, it is very important. I'm saying this because of your sentence that you want to interpret my sentence that we beat the crown in the first half, we did, we beat it then, we had a unique case of only 12 infected in 25 days. And because of this, we chose the moment of parliamentary elections very wisely, wisely and responsibly, and when the epidemic was at a lower level and when we could do so in the best possible way, we provided not only great trust but also ensure the stability and functioning of Croatian institutions. That's what citizens see, that's what citizens know. When it comes to the strategy of combating the Covid-19 experience we have, the comparative analyses we use, the scientific advice we consult, the epidemiological profession in Croatia, all those involved in the headquarters, those who deal with this topic daily and who have dealt with this topic as a profession for years lead us to conclude that we must fight the crown with appropriate, adequate, proportionate measures, rational measures, measures that deliver results and which affect the reduction of the dynamics of the spread of the Covida-19 pandemic. So here's the data today compared to last Tuesday telling you about the increase that your colleague Bauk will surely measure immediately, about only 1% compared to Tuesday seven days ago. So growth is smaller, slower growth than we've recorded before. And that's what's good and what's useful and that means that the measures we've introduced have been good quality. As for KBC Dubrava, therefore KB Dubrava showed exceptional speed, willingness to accept Covid patients during the spring. You remember that not only two blocks, block A B, block A, block B of the hospital, special tents that the Croatian Army has made available to the team and oxygen, have enabled additional capacity, as the number of patients increased during the autumn and when the capacities of the infectious clinic Fran Mihaljevic were fully occupied, the number of patients in Dubrava increased. Dubrava is now defined as a hospital in which patients with Covida-19 will be poured into. I believe in quality, expertise, professionalism of all KB Dubrava employees. I also believe in the report that the minister will receive after, as far as I understand it earlier today, a new administrative council was held where the Director of KB Dubrava's report on the situation was requested and that decisions will then be made to enable the hospital to function effectively, quality health care and when we will clearly make a distinction, and you have heard this from the doctor, from patients in some contributions, from several perceptive elements that impair society with network internet space from the real picture of the situation in that respectable health facility. Therefore, Minister Beroš and all those responsible have the task to do in the KB Dubrava, all who come for Covida-19 receive adequate care in the highest possible position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10326	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10327	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. You didn't hear my question. But I'm not surprised. You, throughout your term, are not giving answers to questions, but by verbal acrobatics you are trying to impress your companion. You didn't impress me with anything. You beat the crown a little bit, you're a little in the second half. I'd like you to make up your mind. You don't seem to hear what I'm asking, as if you haven't been to Croatia in the last two weeks. A situation that the hospital center of Dubrava, now that it's literally about lives. We can see the result of HDZ rule because because of the clan struggles of HDZ, Dubrava has no fair aggregate. But that's why there's a generator of this condition, Mr. Plenkovic, and that's you. You, as sponsor of such a nakaradic system that is causing the health system to fail, at times when it is most needed by Croatian citizens. Who is to blame, or why? Corruption, Mr. Plenkovic. And if it's a new edition of the encyclopedia, under the terms of corruption as a synonym, the crew of Andrej Plenkovic will stand. So much for your victory over the crown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10328	The 21st question, Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10329	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. You said that the crown crisis concerns everyone, that is one global threat, we agree on that, but I would refer to our situation here. So you certainly had the political benefit of having organized the election at 7. I mean, it's undeniable, but now we see that there's no more truth to hide. So the way we manage our assets is not only irrational but it leads to the collapse of the entire system. I repeat, the stability you highlight is false and expensive for Croatian citizens. In addition to the 27 billion allocated for health insurance, you asked the citizens for a donation. The same thing, about debt to wholesales. The HDZ, under your leadership, has come up with the idea that the state needs to start its own bigotry. I think it's a sign of lack of vision and lack, actually, of the will to reform the system. However, my question concerns the statement you recently made in Brussels, where you actually gave a guarantee, a personal guarantee that the Homeland Movement, or those people from the Homeland Movement, will never win power. I remind you of the statements made by Minister Medveda who said publicly that investigations would be carried out against some members of the opposition. My question is, and we've been seeing a recent blockade from the Department of Justice and the Department, as far as the enrollment of our branches and so forth. How do you intend to achieve this guarantee, we are concerned that the Croatian public has the right to know and whether you are a role model for Alexander Lukashenko in Belarus In the way of conduct? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10330	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10331	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really don't know whose names are more creative, fake, untrue, yours or my colleague Ahmetovic, but it is the right to speak in the Croatian Parliament, people see very well and know very well. As far as the crown is concerned, I don't think there's any need to look back at it because I've answered it several times already, but I will answer you to this last part in which you alluded to the fact that in Croatia there is a regime of Lukashenko. So it's you as someone who's been in diplomacy, who's come back to Croatia, came from the diaspora, came back, proposed to teach here for young generations, followed what's going on, understood the tissues of Croatian society, see what's going on here, you're able to say it. Well, now that's like this, I'd say a new level of amazing thesis with which someone I've known for almost 30 years, I have to admit that even so little, I wouldn't say surprised, but disappointed, that's even worse. When someone disappoints you at this level, it means you're unargumented, that you don't actually hear your colleagues. So when there was a terrorist attack in front of the Ban Courts, which is a terrorist attack, look at the Penal Code, the article that's talking about it, you'll see why it's like that. So you will see why there are people who are 22 years old and that at 22 years old they are able to have illegal possession of automatic weapons, not only one, but then another, shoot at the Croatian police officer in front of the Banski Court, and then listen to the comments of parliamentary political parties, like your colleagues, who say, so it's a riot, it's a riot. So to say it's up to some general situation, so your colleagues, I haven't, I have to admit, nor have I noticed that you're commenting, have tried to find some sort of understanding for it. See, that's the reason. That's the reason. That's why we say a line has been crossed, so then we interpret to Croatian citizens who are behind what is behind it. So unlike you, we're aware of what happened. We can easily find the basis for who and what was fed by the perpetrator of this terrible crime where a Croatian police officer almost lost his life and then when I say that we have 3 runways against radicalism, violent extremism, and even terrorism, one refers to a specific case, to see who affected a man of 22 years and how he decides to do what he did in front of the Ban Courts. 2. to institutionally increase the intensity of the work of all institutions against this and 3. to fight politically against those parties which will a) or relativize that act, it could have been anywhere, this perpetrator did not come to shoot in front of another Croatian state institution, not even at HS originally, neither did the Office of Presidents, he did not come to Sisak-Moslavina County, nor the Office of Mayor Kutina but came here to the Bane Court. He came where you as a political party go to a parliamentary campaign we can do anything, HDZ can, but he can't cooperate with the Prime Minister, it was your political agenda, remember that. You took that inspiration from the 2016 Bridge and then you lost, that movie you don't see, and now you find understanding, not you personally, but yours. That's where we draw the line, that's what we say the border is crossed, that society isn't our society. That is the point, that is the point of this message, not in the Lukashenka regime, but in a democratic regime that knows what the values behind which it should be, which are moves that cannot be relativated or approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10332	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10333	Thanks for the answer. I can't say I'm satisfied with that. So it is not disputed that what happened recently in St. Marka is a tragic event to be condemned and we have done so, but it should also be said that such an event should not be used for political purposes and try to benefit from such a tragedy. I stand by my word, try to be moderate in performance, not personally, but I mind every abuse of power, every one. So, if we see that money is spent inappropriately in state-owned enterprises such as Janaf and others, then we should agree that it is not the best idea to set up another state-owned company to deal with drug distribution, for example. But you said I was a liar, but you didn't make any lies. You said I pretended to teach as a teacher to young people, not to pretend, but it was my job before I was elected to this high house. I did it out of conviction, and it was my way of making daily bread. I didn't propose, it's my profession, teaching young people. And we need to insist on that responsibility, so if you see that the government is being abused for any purpose, then you're going to have to call it out, we're going to do it. I think we agree that parliamentary democracy is demanding, and that is where individual freedom should be respected, and voters should vote. This way you're talking to us in some way, you said that recently Mr. Skoro clown, if your rhetoric isn't mine, so I won't personally insult it, but I'll always insist on principles and I'll be persistent about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10334	Thank you. Let's go to Question 22, Representative Silvano Hrelja, the question is raised by Health Minister William Berosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10336	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It is difficult to correct the debts and errors of past times in the crown of conditions. I believe you're carrying a heavy burden of daily decision-making, and that's why I'm not going to add to your wound, poor government assessment of supplemental health insurance censorship. You just have to deal with it quickly. Today, I am interested in the question of availability of healthcare for those who literally die without medical care, cancer patients, chronic patients. We have the highest rate of deaths, and almost the least rate of cancer patients treated and not just them. The lives and health of citizens are at risk because medical institutions delay their checks, treatment and health care. Can the health care system be reorganised, regrouped, specialized in not refusing to give relevant, binding protection to citizens in need? I remind you, the Health Protection Act has the following principles, the scope of healthcare includes the entire population of the Republic of Croatia, the continuity of healthcare is achieved by the overall organisation of the health system. The availability of healthcare is achieved through such a schedule of health institutions, including specialisations and reorganisations, which are needed in crisis management. Mr. Minister, my question is, what are the obstacles including material ones, and what can we do because I'm sure neither you nor we here have our citizens on our conscience?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10337	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10338	...counsel's representative. Your question is in place, all the health administrations in the world at this point two how to help those patients who are not covid positive. I believe you're testifying on your own that we're talking about the same thing every time we perform. The World Health Organization has warned of the same, but the situation is extreme, it is a global pandemic and epidemic. In our way of organising health care and what I just said, by centralizing the covid-19 positive patients, we have tried to enable at this point while all other healthcare institutions are still able to provide healthcare for other species of need. It is our task and we are doing it, it is a matter of time and there are projections given the numbers that I have also cited, how the health system will be filled, so we cited a centralized role in the defence system's defence position as extremely important. I believe that you testify how many times we have stated through the statement that all emergency conditions, mainly oncological patients, all vulgarable groups need to be provided adequate health care on all aspects and hospital health care and primary health care. However, the situation that happened to us, she admits, conditioned a different way of providing health care, unfortunately people had to wait in front of hospitals in the triage lines, to fill out questionnaires of various kinds to get into a health care facility, because if we miss someone who potentially has a virus that happens to us every day anyway because it's impossible to detect with triage and questionnaires whether someone was able to get the virus, he's bringing the virus into our health system, which affects doctors and other patients. Therefore, I believe that under certain circumstances we try to do everything, not only to treat patients who are Covid positive, but to provide adequate health care and to enable all others who are in need. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10339	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10340	Mr. Minister, I know that one of the conditions is cca 13 billion-long health care system, and you know, Mr. Minister, that I am a public health advocate of intergenerational solidarity, and I support the public insurance of supplementary health insurance. You also know that thanks to each monthly payment of 70 kuna per month, one million and 700,000 per special account at the CNB is collected every month 120 million kuna, and that they are not spent due to less inspection, because of the less hospital reception and other services, you cannot take them because they are not money in the budget, they are strictly intended, they are not contributions, so you have no authority on them, but only you can take them if you have services. And I'm between that million and 700,000, and that's why I'm worried about this situation because at this time, the most tragic thing is to have dead capital somewhere. And we have about 800 million kunas somewhere, which isn't a small amount of money on that account. That's what the poor who aren't covered by the censors used to pay for, you know, by increasing the censorship and they're in there. I suggest you ask us nicely and borrow that money to buy additional equipment, specialize in individual institutions and certain health services to speed up processes to prevent people dying without need in the Republic of Croatia, to be even better and better quality. Borrow half a billion kunas, promise to return them, make decisions of government and parliament, stand alone in the future of public insurance. And by the end of the year, increase the rates of supplementary health insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10341	Thank you very much. Let's go to the 23rd issue of Anamarija Blažević wanted to ask the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, since she is not answered by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10343	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister is here unlike some representatives who are informed about the Slavonia Project exclusively on web portals, and have the possibility of participating in the Council meetings for Slavonia, I participated in last session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which was held about a month ago in Nasice. Once again, I became convinced of the importance of the existence of this counsel for areas from which I came. At the 10th meeting of the Council, we received insight into the progress of the Slavonia project, which is visible not only through financial indicators but also in the field in our municipalities and cities, regardless of the political option of the executive authority at local level. Among other things, at the same session of the council, we received information about the new national classification of the statistical regions of the Republic of Croatia, and this was mentioned by the respected colleague Radic. I am interested in what the NUTS 2 regions are envisaged by a new national classification, i.e. what this division means for the intensity of support primarily for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10344	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10345	Thank you, well-respected representative Blažević, not only were you in Nasice, you were also host as the mayor of one of the Council for Slavonia, who was in Pakrac and I think that as responsible mayor you understand very well how much the circumstances changed, how much the government's approach, as well as continued engagement, dialogue, cooperation, projects that are being prepared, their realisation and funding helped to develop Slavonia in your specific case of Požega-Slavon County. As for the change, so our government-level decision to change the structure of two NUTS regions, so NUTS 2 regions of Pannonian and Adriatic Croatia to 4 now Pannonian, North-West, Adriatic and City of Zagreb, we believe that it was correct, welcome, that it corrected the injustice against Slavonia. You know that this system will apply from 1 January next year, that the European Commission will prepare its guidelines for regional support by April next year, that they will be valid for the period '22. – '27, that support when it comes to Slavonian counties will increase by 20%, by the northwest by 10%, that for the City of Zagreb and for the Adriatic counties, 7 will remain at this level given the different stages of development. In any case, what we're doing is being traced to the government's additional efforts for even regional development, which is one of our key objectives. We want to make wise use of cohesion funds to help those parts of Croatia that are more objectively less developed, to gradually reach not only more developed counties in the Republic of Croatia but all go forward together and quickly pursue a step with an average at EU level, which is a minimum of 75% of the level of development. When we reach that, and it is my opinion that this is good, that we are on track to do it through the next decade, especially with these two instruments, the multiannual financial framework and the EU next generation, then the effects of our policy will be fully visible and useful in the way we see them, and this new map of regional support is a strong incentive and support and half-development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10346	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10347	Here, and I am pleased with your answer, I agree that from the Slavonia Project, or from calling for advice on changed circumstances in our area, and I also believe that this injustice will be corrected primarily because of the greater intensity of support for the new national classification, i.e. NUTS 2 regions, and this is also a predisposition to stimulate investment, primarily economic investments that are absolutely necessary in the Slavonia area. You yourself said that this “Project of Slavonia” that is, that the development of Slavonia depends on several circumstances, and one was the Homeland War. I will just say that in the Pakrac area the war damage was over 2 billion kuna, so here I think that everything that is done through the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem significantly contributes to the development of our regions, we just want, our regions, and we just want to get to the same level of development as the rest of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10348	Now it is MP Tomislav Tomasevic's turn, the question will be asked to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10349	Good afternoon, everyone. My question is for Prime Minister Plenkovic. I am interested in Prime Minister why do you continue to hold the ladder for Milan Bandic in the City of Zagreb while he works, and all of Zagreb and all of Croatia knows how he works? In particular, I would like to know why, a few days ago, you, as president of HDZ, allowed your city representatives or even ordered the Bandic to vote for the public private partnership model for Block Badel. A square worth 155 million kuna worth of land? Thus, the decision establishes a joint venture where on the one hand the City of Zagreb invests valuable land, and on the other hand a private investor is equivalent to money. However, the private investor has a majority ownership stake and all management rights to manage these companies. So don't take it out that you didn't know, we all know very well that these financial decisions are not made in the city HDZ. After all, last time you just cut for Zagreb's Manhattan at Velesaj and the Hippodrom before the parliamentary elections that HDZ did not vote for it, and now you voted and supported little Zagreb Manhattan. So, I'm interested in you explaining to the public why you're still trading with Milan Bandic even though the majority of his chips are no longer dependent on you, I'm interested in explaining what you got in return from Milan Bandic for this decision? Because it's impossible, so it's a rather strange situation that your city's MPs, just before the session, have criticized even more strongly than anyone, than some members of the opposition, this decision so that only after a few days at the kick-off session would they vote this out without a single word. Is this yours, is this the fight against corruption that you claim to be leading as HDZ president and as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10350	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10351	Thank you, well-respected representative Tomašević. It seems to me that at least here there must be one or two representatives who constantly confabulate the House of Representatives. By the time you were here, Mr. Maras, who was very nice to me, and Mrs. Poirot. Dark-Taritash mostly. Now I see you've taken over Mr. Maras' staff. I guess that's because some others would say, I would never tell you what you want to be so-called. Vone to Mayor, it's all right. So unlike you who are now insinuating first to know what and how and where is being negotiated within HDZ, so you're probably some kind of listening service out there that tracks what the City Committee of HDZ is doing, which is incorrect. There are no agreements, no instructions, no instructions that would give city committees or our club representatives orders on how to vote. We have very clearly in line with the party's statutes, a certain territorial structure of HDZ where competent organisations on topics that are from their competences, which are themes of the City of Zagreb, not HS, not governments, they decide, that's number one. Secondly, you insinuate some kind of trade between me and Mayor Bandic about some kind of project relating to a public private partnership. I don't know where you get such creativity, such inspiration, such a desire that you're actually alluding to some kind of corruption or what do you really want to say? You think there's some kind of deal between the mayor of Zagreb and the Prime Minister for some kind of project that concerns a fourth in the City of Zagreb? That's a little too much. That's a little too much. I believe that you have plenty of time, that we know that the local elections in May, that you have all been pleasantly surprised together first with the selection of the head of the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund as a professional person, manager, a man with experience who will take over an important bat in government activities that will allow the City of Zagreb to be restored. So, I'll remind you, you've been doing performances here and at St. John's Square. Marka, we were criticised not to pass the law, that there was no means, that we should organise the donor conference, and at the same time we passed the law in two readings, did as we said in time with respect to the profession, with a consensus practically in HS and you voted for, many of your amendments were accepted, in time adopted a programme of measures, in time created by the City of Zagreb Renewal Fund, a very high quality person was elected, and now some kind of shushur has been created in Zagreb circles. I see it that way. And as for these topics, I really suggest that you discuss this in the city hall, where the place is, to ask the question of any mayor, whether the city administration, these are not issues of the importance of the government of the Republic of Croatia. It is simply not, we do not have such a practice to enter micro management of county congregations, city halls or councils of cities or municipalities. It's not our practice, it's not the model we're doing, it's how you might do it, you might be trading with some mayor if you're in our position, and then you're trying to represent some of your own models to the public as models that might exist in some other parties. They're just not like that, things are so that she's the level that's competent to make her own decisions, ask your colleagues why and how they voted on each one. The dark. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10352	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10353	It's not some decision on a neighborhood, it's a 155 million-dollar decision, it's an annual budget, for example, for a town of Zapresic. I will provide you with a video of your city representative criticizing on boards more strongly than the opposition this model, and then after several hours of debate at the assembly session of the entire HDZ kick without a single word at the vote session for, without explaining why you changed your mind. On all committees, the decision did not go away because HDZ did not support it. Why did you change your mind after a few days, you didn't answer me? There's no way you didn't know that, there's no way you didn't consult for such important financial decisions. And as for the trade with Milan Bandic, I have watched in the three-year assembly as the trade you run here in the Assembly reflects on the trade in the City Assembly. I see how you support the model where Zagreb with 10 times less house for advent proceeds 10 times more than Split earns less money than one city of Split. I am looking at these models that you have blessed, and in this way you want to continue blocking the opposition, blocking our establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee, claiming that the decision on the parliamentary investigative committee on the Janaf affair and other affairs and the influence of politics on such processes is anti-constitutional. We have seen what the Constitutional Court has said about the changes of the Rules of Procedure and who it has given the right to what is contrary to what is not constitutional. Use the same phrases as the president,... So I might as well answer you in his style if you were... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] future head of the European Commission, however, I do not want to go down to such a level as you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you didn't answer one question to me, do you support that decision, do you think that decision is good for this radical model for the interests of the City of Zagreb or not, but you're avoiding the answer and you're saying the same thing again, I don't know anything, I don't see anything, I don't hear anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10354	Thank you very much. Let's go to 25 questions representative Darko Sobota is asking him to the vice-president of the government and Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10356	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. Since the Croatian Defence Ministry is conducting tenders for defence associations projects, and this year has given up the usual competition and adapted to the pandemic situation, please respond to how has the implementation of such projects been done so far, and what activities have been the funding from them?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10357	Here's your answer, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Saturday. You are familiar with the way our Government and how it relates to the Homeland War Association and in general that all programmes are implemented in support of the Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. So in 2020, we started the whole process of calling public calls and competitions to finance the activities of the Homeland War associations. But the phenomenon of the pandemic caused by the covid-19 virus, but also by the March 22nd earthquake in the City of Zagreb, the Croatian Defence Ministry recognized the need for a hasty adjustment of our support activities in the emerging situation and, accordingly, we suspended the implementation of all the then-scheduled public calls and competitions and directed them towards a completely new model. We have rerouted all resources according to a public call for psychosocial and social empowerment and raising the quality of life of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Of course, all these measures were directed to mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic and earthquakes on the defence population and their families. Through a public call issued by 98 associations from the Homeland War, they received funds to implement a total of 124 programmes, i.e. the total value of 8 million and 560 thousand kuna. All activities were aimed at providing psychosocial support to Croatian defenders and members of their families, the material support of the most hit by the pandemic as well as those who are affected by earthquakes in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding areas of their basic living conditions. Of course, we have carried out an analysis of the implementation of all these measures and found that the objective of this public call was achieved, that the Associations of the Homeland War organised and designed projects for the benefit of Croatian defenders and members of their families, that they included 13,693 users in their activities, and that more than 1220 persons were involved in the implementation of the activities themselves. In cooperation with the regional departments, the Croatian Defence Ministry has also established at local level all these activities through the inter-resorial cooperation of all other stakeholders who are participating the realization of these activities. What I also want to highlight here, given the proactive and solidarity activities in the current situation, Croatian defenders play an important role in this crisis situation that requires quick, organised and effective action. The Croatian defenders also make a significant contribution through various forms of assistance, mostly through the civil protection system and other components of the home security system, to the activities of countering the negative consequences of the earthquake and pandemic of covida-19 disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10359	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10360	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm expressing pleasure actually done so far. And I come from the defense population myself, and I give thanks to my fellow defenders for everything they've done on behalf of our defense attorneys and concern for your care and your associates. Of course, thanks also applies to the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10361	26th question MP Krešimir Ackar will ask Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10362	Dear President HS, respected Ministers of Science and Education one of the common issues that has been emerging recently in the below is the one about anonymous applications. We have recently heard in the public that this issue will be resolved and that it will go into procedure because all of us who come from the education system are aware of how many teachers are actually the pillars of society and how big their responsibility is and how hard they are actually doing part of the work and without those unfounded anonymous reports that have been made in the last 5 years. almost 24%. So can you please tell us specifically when this problem of abolishing anonymous reports could be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10363	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10364	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Honorable Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, this is one question that has been mentioned very often by educators. This category of anonymous reporting to an educational inspection that has been misused in a few cases either because someone outside the school or even someone inside the school has reported maliciously. This was read and recognized, so it even belonged to some category, I would dare say, and some internal mobing of my colleagues and colleagues, which is certainly not good, and finally also a protest, the employees, among other things, and the last protest, were just pointing to such a thing. Last or last 5 years. There have been about 11500 applications to the educational inspection, of which there are approximately 24 wholes or something, and some percent there have been anonymous reports, and again, if we go through it, we'll see how many people can be identified as malicious. That's exactly why last week we referred to the procedure of amending the Law on Educational Inspection in two articles. In one where we said that applying to an educational inspection except for the incriminating part to which it is intended must contain a name and a last name, so it must be signed. On the other hand, we have strengthened, in the second article, the guarantee that such application to third parties will be in principle anonymous. So, a protest inspection is required to keep it a business secret. It's in the process. I think that in this way we have met both the requirements of being able to point out mistakes and shortcomings, and we have also prevented the abuse of anonymous reporting because we have had examples that in some schools there have been 15 reports of one and the same or similar act for no reason. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10365	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10366	... I express my satisfaction with what you have just told us, and I thank you on behalf of all fellow teachers who will surely be relieved in this part of the work in this educational process. [[Speaker not enabled]] As we also express our satisfaction with all that you do and announce in 2021. when we talk about reform of primary and secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10367	27th question MP Marin Miletic asks Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10368	Dear President HS, Mr Jandrokovic, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Minister Malenica, 2 weeks ago on October 19th, the moratorium was completed and it re-launched the executive procedures that had been stopped for 6 months. You personally and the Government of the Republic of Croatia assured the public that you had ensured the execution of the performance in 3 waves, and not at all. But in the field, we have a completely different story. As the public notebooks themselves have confirmed, more and more believers and notebooks do not adhere to these informal recommendations of yours. We've even heard that creditors threaten to sue for damages if their performances are detained without legal basis. That's why I want to ask you, why didn't you try to regulate your performance by law? As a lawyer and as a doctor of legal science, you had to be aware that informal recommendations and arrangements don't really bind anyone, which we now see specifically on the ground. As Minister of Justice, can you understand that your public statements and promises of performance in 3 waves have actually led debtors astray as to their expectations when the execution will knock on the door of their homes. The people, Minister, thought the question was settled, and now we see it's not at all. Are you aware of how many people these days feel deceived like one mother of four children from Rijeka and for who knows which time played by this government? Do they have debtors? The right may be to compensation for damages [[Intruder: Thank you]] Because the Minister of Justice has led them astray by his promises? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Miletic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10369	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10370	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Representative, as for the problem of performance, namely the government for the past few days, has been facing the problem of performance in Croatian society for the past few years. I would only point out that, in the past term, we have reduced the number of blocked citizens by more than 100,000, through changes to two legislative proposals, the law on the implementation of the budget implementation and the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons. We've written off the debts of less than $10,000, and we've also unblocked the accounts of citizens who are not more than 3 years old. any activity, and we've actually reduced the number of people blocked by over 100,000. In the last few months, we have had intensive talks with representatives and debtors and creditors and public notaries, and through these talks we have actually come to an agreement with the Public Bookmark Chamber that after October 19, therefore, the collection and launch of the executive procedures at the 3rd interval. I would also point out that the executive procedure itself lasts for an average of 30 to 60 days, so that the performances that were initiated after that interval, so until the time itself, for the implementation of the exercise itself, the financial resources will come within 30 to 60 days and some estimate that by the end of the year around 50,000 executive proposals will be realised. I daily communicate with the President of the Public Bookmark Chamber, concerning the conduct of public notebooks, and in those talks that preceded the interruption of moratorium and clearly pointed out and they actually held a debate on their bodies and gave a clear guarantee that there would be 3 intervals of implementation and what I was about to say was that the Public Bookmark Chamber, or the President, was to guarantee that the public notebooks were actually being respected. I can understand that there are certain situations in practice, however, recommendations for me as a minister and agreement with the Public Bookmark Chamber, as well as recommendations adopted by the Public Bookmark Chamber on its bodies, were therefore in the direction of 3 intervals. I would also like to point out, here, last week, that is to say, a public consultation on amendments and additions to the Executive Act where the Government continues to introduce certain social components and care for both debtors and creditors. Therefore, the whole process is digitised, costs are reduced, so by voting this law and by adopting the regulation, we will significantly reduce public record costs, protect certain, certain incomes, Christmases, resurrections, regressions, we have increased the amount of debt that can be carried out over real estate, and that is actually only one sequence of activities that the government has already started in the last term when it has increased the amount of salary that can be made from 2/3 to 3/4, when it has established that the only property cannot be sold in the executive procedure. So I believe that through the amendments or the vote of amendments and the addition of the executive procedure, we will also prepare for a full solution through the new Implementing Law, so we will solve the problem of the citizens who have been executed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10371	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10372	Dear Minister Malenica, your answer, as well as your recommendations to me personally sound like washing hands of responsibility. But I'm glad you mentioned the amendment to the executive law, here, I have it right here in front of me, I read that article, so let's be open. The main objective of this law is, at all costs, to keep public notebooks in the executive system. Since the EU court has found that public notebooks cannot be considered a court in terms of European law, your ministry has been trying to make the notebooks appear as a court. I am pleased that as long as we are discussing this, there is also a Croatian prime minister who is a lawyer, because I want everyone to hear what is in that proposal. Croatian public, quote. If a public notary accepts a proposal for enforcement against the perpetrators of a person resident or established outside the Republic of Croatia, it will be deemed that he has received an application for a payment order and will not make a decision on the execution but will forward the case to the competent court for decision-making. To explain, you, as Minister of Justice, are proposing to do the same, identical thing against debtors who have residence in Croatia, and if the debtor has a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, then the courts are responsible. As a doctor of legal science who has practically doctored on the subject of execution and enforcement, do you think it is constitutionally acceptable to treat foreigners more favourably than people and legal persons in Croatia? Minister, with all due respect, I can't be satisfied with such an answer and I'm going to ask you for a written statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10373	We now go to number 28, Question 28, MP Michel Jaksic, sets it up for the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10374	Dear President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. My colleague Miletic asked me a question before me, but the subject will be the same. The moratorium on the ground because I personally believe that the key decision is political and what Prime Minister Plenkovic will be ready to stand behind. First of all, I congratulate you on winning the first half of the battle against the crown, which has brought you victory in parliamentary elections, but everyone who follows the sport knows that the game is played for two half-time, can be extended, can be eleven, and I think it's clear to everyone that when we got fat in the second half that we got into one fat and heavy defensive. I'd dare say we're in the middle of nowhere. She mentioned herself here and KB Dubrava. So far, we haven't had that information where today will be a medical staff protest, and apparently everything is perfect. What bothers me personally is why in that second half we forgot about our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, especially those affected by this corona crisis because in the spring when the crown started on a much smaller number of infected we immediately brought the moratorium to the top. Today when we have several hundred thousand people infected, it's no longer a topic, we don't want to talk about it, 101 thousand citizens are already on top today, 170 thousand executions are still waiting and the question is who is in the interest of not protecting our citizens in this situation, not protecting those who are the most affected and simply not thinking about clearing up this crisis how to extend the moratorium on top and how to give people who are under fire, to get their breath.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10375	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10376	Thank you very much, Honorable Representative Jaksic. As for sports and halftime, I believe that we are also counting in this game important projects for Koprivnica and Križevnica County, for the town of Koprivnica, for activities concerning investments in your area, for the very warm open content cooperation and dialogue that we have been conducting for 4 years in I don't know how many arrivals in Koprivnica, about it can confirm both the mayor and, for example, here Parliament's representative Saturday, and I think then you should watch this game fully, and as far as fighting Covida-19 none of us underestimates the problem, does lessen the seriousness of the situation, it's a key message, that's what we say every time we talk about this topic, that is ultimately why we take all these measures. But that's the same reason why we as Government are at times when during that first half we won, which you and your colleagues were talking about 400,000 unemployed because of Covida-19 and because of inadequate government policy. So, as SDP in the spring, you feared the Croatian public that we would have 400,000 unemployed. It's very important to put it back on the air, to remember, to know who it is, when and how it spoke. You see, we were not only in earlier activities before Covida-19 laws passed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from our government, and there were 3 laws, 2 from the Ministry of Finance's domain, 1 from the Ministry of Justice's domain reduced the number of blocked citizens from 325,000 to 234, so we reduced a significant number without saying as much as we did with those one-time write-offs, and other measures reduced the total part of the obligations. debt relating to those who have been blocked and who are threatened by the performance. We have, of course, passed this moratorium in form 3 + 3, and the minister spoke about how the preparation of amendments to the executive law, we had even prepared the executive law which was almost voted in the previous session, but when we saw that the law was such that no actor participating in the procedure was satisfied enough, they all had something against at the end, so we decided to put it in the third reading, now after the analysis and consultation the minister suggested that we go to changes to the executive law that would all go practically in favour of the debtor. All, whatever the case, from the cost of the procedure to the procedure and in the finality of those protective mechanisms that enable for example today, I remind you that 3/4 net wages and pensions were excluded from the application to the amount of 4.289 kuna, social benefits such as child's allowance, maternity benefits, sickness benefits, unemployment benefits, and soon as he said, there will be a Santa Claus and a regression and a resurrection and other questions. So, the kind of social sensitivity to the government that gives the private sector 8.1 billion kunas to keep people with salaries, to put a moratorium at the same time, to tell us that we're not sensitive is wrong, just doesn't answer the truth. We're the ones who made sure that these companies work, that people get paid, that they stay employed, that we have more insurance than before today, but there's some obligation that some of those assets that people owe to the sea are looked at by those who gave those funds. what we're going to do with them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So we need to take care of balanced approach And the minister exposed you to a set of measures in the second half. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10377	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10378	Dear Prime Minister, I personally have no problem adapting your statements to time and when there was victory and at some half-time, but then I pray for a gram of correctness not to put something in my mouth that I have never personally said, because I don't remember mentioning 400,000 unemployed. We can't talk constructively at that level. What I just wanted to draw attention to is that when we add up and take away everything that's been done so far and I'm personally from the corner of Koprivnica in the spring saying that the government is doing a good job at that stage of the crisis and that we're all going towards it and we're going to save both the economy and people's health, I think today is a lot of issues that are open to criticism, one of these are definitely these. We have a big public apparatus and I think it can be arranged in a way to determine, to establish censorship, to see how and how to protect those most affected by this crisis. Not all of them who get incentives for wages under the burden of performance, there are people who are out of work, there are people who are social cases and I think it's the least we can do for these people, to make lists, to see who's in what kind of trouble, and to make at least a new moratorium on the implementation so long as the Executive Law is passed. Let's not afford it, and that's the topic on which I think we can find a consensus so that we don't get who in conversion and transition to come out of conversion as great winners, the vast majority of them are running around BiH today, and some of them come out of this crisis as even bigger losers and even more difficult social cases. The moratorium on this one is the smallest thing that we can do for these people together. To you with your salary, to me with my salary it may seem minimal, believe these people today are very, very, very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10379	Let's move on. Now it's time for counterpart Sinisha Hajdas Doncic to question the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10380	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the earthquakes in Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, has been 226 days, the winter is at the door, so the reconstruction has not yet begun. So, what has been done so far has been made by its own elan, by its own arrangement of citizens, so whether it's material, whether it's technical. And then another amazingly long wait perhaps you were guided by the prophecies of the Maya, perhaps Nostradamus' writings, perhaps Grandmother Wang, perhaps the brothers Tabrojević Milos and Mitra floor.../incomprehensible/... now you and you suddenly appoint Mr. Vangelic as director of the reconstruction fund. I would like to stress that Mr. Vangelic is the chairman of the INE Supervisory Board, until recently the chairman of the management of an insurance company, and now the board of the same insurance company, and then I ask you if perhaps the person who will manage billions of kunas on your announcements, billions of kunas in the fund that will restore the City of Zagreb and part of the Krapina-Zagorje and part of Zagreb County, will he perhaps be in conflict of interest? Because he sees the devil, that same insurance house probably has some, so to speak, money transactions between citizens and earthquake insurance, or is that gentleman you suggested actually going to work for the interests of the citizens? Is there a potential conflict of interest, or is it not a respected Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10381	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10382	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Highash Doncic. You belong to that group of SDP MPs who proved their excellence during a sport called reporting political opposition to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. I believe that you, as a good friend of the SDP, will also report to President Milanovic, I expect that since you are here talking about a conflict of interest of potential, a duty which is currently not defined in the existing list of duties that exists in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. So, you're reporting someone who is currently not an official and it's a good sport. I think that you and everyone in the SDP have been very well, and others have been following what Mr. Vangelic has since he was appointed as temporary director, and that was last week at the government said and declared, so he is willing to make a transparent statement to the commission to report all his assets, to say what he has, how he acquired it, what his material status is. A man has no problem with that. He was elected here because he's the manager. I'm sure someone who's head of the fund, whether he's directors or temporary director, certainly can't get into the contractual relationship between the insurance house and a citizen who, for example, once before the earthquake happened, secured his real estate. I don't see what kind of lock-up someone who's at the head of a trust fund could get into a contractual relationship that already exists, I don't know which way. I don't get it. If you have this as a possible scenario, and I'm sure you do because you may have consulted all these prophets and prophets that you've listed here, and it would be good for the public to hear it because you may have inspired yourself in your judgment in the spring that they will have 400,000 unemployed, you understand. You predicted it, I think it was you that the RI and the START coalition would have 68 mandates. So this grandmother of Wang or where you've been to some kind of consulting, some kind of recreate, on that team building, you've suddenly seen 68 mandates on July 5th and 400,000 unemployed. Now you have a duty which we expressus verbis mentioned in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. So it seems to me that you have a lot of these apparitions, it's interesting, you've acted serious to me both as a minister and as a mayor and someone who reads this contemporary political international literature, follows global trends, tries to be serious in their assessments, I'm sure this is part of one that some of your colleagues here said that they don't come to the advice for Slavonia, I guess it's beneath them, one PR performance about how to sort of discredit a very high-quality manager who as a Zagreban accepted to help the city and his fellow citizens rebuilding the City of Zagreb. And you, unlike us, did not provide 683 million euros from the Solidarity Fund, you did not provide for $200 million from the World Bank, you did not provide for funds in the budget for the next year and for the years ahead, so you did not do it, and you did not make a programme of measures or agreements involving the fund and your Krapina-Zagorje County, but not related to it we will restore both Zagorje and Zagreb. I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10383	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10384	Well, I'm actually happy with the answer, excellently, thank you very much, so I've had a full review of one small action and I'm glad you've been focused this time unlike the previous current mornings on focus, so I've got some answers here and there. Thank you very much for your rhetoric, and I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10385	Now President Bojan Glavasevic is going to ask the question also to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10386	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. After the attack on Mark's square, you repeatedly announced a fight with hate speech and extremism in Croatia. Since the co-ordination session for Homeland Security was held, which you tasked me to quote: “Propose measures for a comprehensive, systematic and effective approach to preventing radicalisation.” I ask you to taxfully list measures for the protection of citizens and citizens of hatred, violence and extremism in our society and to tell us which budgets you plan to allocate for these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10387	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10388	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glavasevic. I am pleased that in this debate that followed the terrorist attack at the Ban Courts, you have evolved the subject of hate speech because, as you yourself said, you have often been the victim of hate speech or the target of hate speech, threats and various other unpleasant situations that I have no doubt that you and many others who are exposed to the public are the most brutal, most aggressive and most primitive attacks and I am sorry for that, and I understand you in this regard. I may not be as long a victim as you are, but I'm an intense target of some attacks I'm not talking about, not communicating. That's not the kind of thing I want to talk about, it's not something that gets me so bad about talking about it in public. I'm talking about this subject because on that Monday at Mark's square we all experienced one new dimension, one new level. We've had an armed attack on the government building and the heavy wounding of a Croatian police officer and the attempted murder of two other police officers. So there's this line that's been crossed. Let's imagine that in France after the decapitation of the professors, yesterday in Vienna after the attack in which four people have passed away, some political actors in those two democracies said it might be because of the general situation and the rebellion. What do you think would have been experienced by those political actors and parties who will be very similar to those because only happiness here and dear God saved Oscar Fiuri that today is alive and well recovered, so that in such developed democracies other political parties would react to those who say it could have happened anywhere, it's an attack on the widest possible power or it's because of some rebellion. Well, you see, Agent Glavasevic, you who understand a little bit better seems to me than the others that are involved, there's that big difference. We have here a document that has prepared the Co-ordination for Homeland Security, which has a series of proposed measures, from better legal definition of the framework of phenemology and radicalisation of violent extremism and terrorism, to a series of measures in an educational and preventive manner and ultimately of the legal framework and concrete improvements that can go towards countering radicalisation, and this also refers to the use of hate speech in public space, social network space, internet space, which includes greater responsibility for those who own individual platforms. Because part of that hatred and washing, literally washing away the general sense of things comes from such sources, comes from certain media sources very clearly and the consequences are terrible. The consequences are that someone who, because of their inexperience and immatureness, decides something in his own way. That's why we have to stop at the end all together and make clear the line of those who... who may have some understanding about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is this difference and we will therefore discuss this topic at the National Security Council and take measures in all aspects by strengthening institutions, and in the end I said that [[Intruder: Thank you]] And before those who audate to Lukashenko that we will [[Intruder: Thank you]] doing it in a political struggle. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10389	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10390	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your response. I'm partially satisfied, I'm more, I'd rather ask you a written answer so that I can have those measures in one place that I asked you to taxively count. I think I can agree with a lot of what you've said today and what you've actually said in the previous days about it, and I think we're at one, I hope we're actually at a point where the awareness of the fact that our society is unfortunately highly polluted, our public space is extremely toxic and polluted by hatred and actually by right extremism. I hope you, I just hope you're aware that if you're really serious about dealing with such phenomena in our society that you can't do it alone and that you can't do it, you can't just rely on it, on institutions dealing with persecution or dealing with only national security. If you want a thorough social change, then you need one political alliance among other things that goes beyond the party borders and I think there's one broader catalogue of phenomena that are related to these phenomena that we're talking about, that should at least be discussed in our society in some way and the ball is in your backyard. You're the Prime Minister. It's up to you to launch those initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10391	Question number 31, Ljubica Maksimčuk asks Minister of Agriculture Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10392	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Minister Vukkovic, the situation with the coronary virus in Croatia and in the surrounding countries is becoming more alarming. Are fearsome parts of the public justified for a potential food shortage?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10394	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Your Honor. MPs, there is often controversy about Croatian self-sufficiency about food in the media. Of course, it's a problem that lasts for years, and it can't just be solved all of a sudden. However, if we are talking about the coronary crisis and the impact it has on Croatian agriculture, I want to thank here first all Croatian farmers and the entire food industry, and fishermen, fishermen and wood growers because they managed to maintain production despite adverse circumstances, so I would say at about the same levels as before the crisis, which I consider to be a great success. Also, we had a series of initiatives that, all of them responded to to strengthen under these unfavourable circumstances, brought together stakeholders because without it there is no lasting success, even though the coronary crisis. I believe Croatia is not at risk of food supply. The Croatian food supply chain works well, the production has been maintained, this year we have some indicators in sectors that for years have markedly negative indicators, so in the cattle sector we have an increase in the number of cows. Also in the dairy and milk sector, we have recorded the last 4 months.../incomprehensible/... but still growth after 6 or 7 years. As for fruits and vegetables beside the crisis, there have been a number of negative circumstances in climate disasters, as well as in preventing certain measures that have been taken, the phytosanitary nature, but this sector has also been maintained. In addition to the horizontal measures that included the Ministry of Agriculture and Advertisers in the agriculture, fisheries and forestry sector, the Croatian government reacted with a number of additional measures for this important and strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia, so here we have in the fisheries sector for compensation for losses, to compensate for the loss of income in aquaculture provided 180 million kunas to change the operational programme for maritime and fisheries, 30 million kuna of additional state aid also in the same sector, 20 million kuna to compensate for the temporary suspension of fishing.../incomprehensible/... and to gamblers, 360 million kunas to help small agricultural producers also, by changing the operational programme for maritime and fisheries, which is a competition currently under way. We reacted further when we had a disturbance in the milk sector especially in small milkers, in the drowned cattle sector, etc. Is that enough, we are doing everything we can, I can announce if there are certain minor or larger disturbances from the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Agriculture will continue to react, and I call on all Croatian consumers to buy valuable and quality products of Croatian fisheries and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10395	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10396	Thank you very much. The pandemic has raised awareness of the importance of the agricultural food industry for the country's economy and security. At the time of the outbreak of the pandemic in Croatia and the closure of the borders with the main comparative advantage, this domestic farmers, or domestic OPGs, were recognised. Croatians want to buy domestic products, but of course we must produce them in sufficient quantities. Thank you, thank you to the government for putting agriculture as a strategic branch and for top priority. It is and must be our development and national interest. I therefore appeal once again to you and to the Government to find additional ways to help our village, agriculture and all other branches in the farm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10397	It is now up to counterpart Tulio Demetlika, who asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10398	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of Istria, is currently under trial by the Republic of Croatia through the State's Attorney's Office against municipalities and cities. The subject matter of disputes is to prove the right of ownership of land to which municipalities and cities as legal successors of property which was registered as social property were registered after the conversion of that social property and according to then valid spatial plans and noting that those land were within the building area. The state at the time was not contentious, the courts carried out the records but after 30 years the state changed its mind and sought, and sought those lands back. We IDS constantly warn of this problem but unfortunately there is no movement in solving. It is amazing that after 30 years, ownership of municipalities and cities is taken away, thus disrupting legal certainty, and direct damage is done to cities and municipalities. For the absurd to be an even bigger state than cities and municipalities to demand and all revenues made available to that land over the past 30 years. It is amazing what message is being sent to investors whether it is public or private, and we all know very well that unresolved ownership relations are always an obstacle to the implementation of projects. Instead of creating legislative frameworks that will foster co-operation between the state, cities and municipalities and accelerate the slow bureaucratic apparatus, the state through the State's Attorney's Office uses public money and public resources to lead disputes with cities and municipalities and burdens courts New items. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Just a question at the end Are you familiar with this situation and what you intend to do? [[Come on, please.]] to be taken at the legislative level? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10399	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10400	Thank you, well-respected representative of Demetlika, I thought that you would be heading towards the soon opening of another part of the Istrian Ipsilon between Pazin and Učka, which in the meantime has been completed which I think very well and which allows Istria and all of our fellow citizens in Istria to be better connected, integrated into the network of highways of the Republic of Croatia and that you will welcome it as well as our efforts to revitalise the Oilics, to complete the General Hospital in Pula, and also for these solutions that we are looking for for for a tobacco factory in Kanfanar. So these are all such emblematic, emblematic topics for our engagement when it comes to Istria. This question that you are touching concerns broader activities and we can freely say creating assumptions for a better quality investment climate, for better legal certainty, for transparency and clarity of ownership relations. The minister, the new minister of state property and construction and spatial planning, Horvat is aware of the situation, and the minister of justice and administration is also aware. We will continue to hold talks with the State Attorney's Office which, by law, is what the state represents, so that it appears and seeks solutions that will improve the management of state property, its activation, its use for the well-being of those environments in which they are. The simplest principle is the principle of decentralisation because I'm the one who knows what kind of property she's in, who can have an idea of how to manage her, who can do better by me than the central government knows what's best for a particular property or land. I see that there is also Mr. Klaric from Bakar who has a large zone in... He knows what they're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We expect from this that, if you want, we raise this topic at one of our meetings with the mayors, to thoroughly prepare it, to try to find a common denominator how to resolve it in relation to all these existing disputes, and these disputes have a terrible lot, I can't remember that number now, but I know that I was amazed by how many disputes de facto between different subjects of the state. It's an amazing number, and our efforts have been in the past term to try to cut it down and solve it, but I think we have a lot of work to do. If we solve that, then if I called it investment vertical faster, more pulsating, the projects wouldn't wait but would be realized. And that's where we agree, and we've been having some conversations with your colleagues, which I think you're very aware of, so I'm basically in favour of a strong rise in this topic as one with which I will especially task Minister Horvat and Malenica to access its better solution, certainly better than it is today. Here, I see Minister Malenica is even there, I don't know if Horvat is there Okay. [[Intruder: No.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10401	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10402	Here, thank you for your response, Your Honor, Prime Minister. I've asked this question for sure because right now, the biggest problem our mayor has to deal with is in the county itself, but I believe that's also in the other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Those projects you mentioned, we welcome, and they are being dealt with, so we do not need to further, however, with this problem addressed, we want to further speed up planned investments. These investments are certainly related to the next period ahead of us using EU funds, and unless we have resolved property-legislative relations, these projects will certainly not be resolved. Today I also support what you suggested we have a meeting in the county, put that topic on the agenda, get all the items out there and see the illogicalities that are happening to us. Because I'm only going to tell you one thing, that the investors who come to us, which means they have spatial plans that have got all the consent of the competent ministry, and if what parcel is like agricultural land or if what parcel is located as a forest area, in solving property-legal matters with the state, it's practically impossible. The state is holding down investment and investors are turning and leaving our country precisely because of the slow unsettling nature of these things, and I therefore welcome that intensity of yours to lay the dice in the government, i.e. that the competent ministers, whether it is the minister of spatial planning and construction and state property, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture in whose jurisdiction is agricultural land and forest land, but also the laws that we have passed in the previous meeting of this Parliament, and as far as tourist land is concerned, to this day nothing has yet been launched, and therefore I call on, here at this next meeting in the county to put this on the agenda. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10403	Let's move on. The 33rd question, MP Ante Bačić asked him by Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10404	Thank you, esteemed president of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. My question goes to Minister Malenica. With all the problems here, we are going through an epidemic of Covid disease, normally that certain difficulties have been created and in normal functioning in the business of public administration and justice. We also know how many objects are passed through these bodies and these institutions and how dependent our citizens are on solving them. I am interested in what the Ministry of Justice and Administration has taken to ensure the conditions for the regular and normal conduct of operations in the authorities of the state administration, in particular the authorities of the criminal system and the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10405	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10406	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor. So, as you know, at its 15th session, the Government adopted a Decision to take measures to prevent the spread of the Covida-19 epidemic virus and to ensure the conditions for the regular conduct of operations in state administration bodies. In line with that decision, I, as Minister of Justice, have agreed with the Prime Minister, made a guide to take all measures to prevent the spread of the virus and ensure conditions for the regular performance of the affairs. So we go with this instruction, to ensure that we do our jobs regularly, so that citizens can exercise all their rights, all their services from the public administration body, and also to protect the lives and health of civil servants through certain instructions that are in line with the HZZ instructions. So through this instruction we also provide direct work with parties, only in situations where this direct work is necessary. For all other situations, we refer to the use of digital platforms and electronic communications. We also prescribed a slip-time to reduce the intensity of the arrival of civil servants at the same time. We have prescribed an obligation to appoint a coordinator, Covid-coordinator as a person who should take care to take all measures, all activities to prevent the spread of the coronary virus, while at the same time ensuring regular performance of the affairs of the state administration body. As you mentioned in your question, therefore, there is a prison system in this vault, so there is an extraordinary effort to prevent the breach of the coronary virus into the prison system. Certain activities have been undertaken on a daily basis, we contact all prison managers, penitentiary, and prison hospitals. So the current indicators are that in certain penitentiary facilities, certain prisons, there has been a outbreak of the virus, however, by redistribution, especially by prison officers, but also by officials, so everything is continued with regular work. As far as judicial authorities are concerned, we are also here in agreement with the President of the Supreme Court or the Attorney General, to find a way that the judicial authorities and the outbreak of the coronary virus will continue uninterrupted with their work, so that both courts and state attorneys can proceed uninterruptedly through the use of digital tools, but also by using certain or adherence to specific instructions based on the HZJZ guidelines. So, in cooperation with the National Civil Protection Centre, we follow the development of the situation, only to revise the guidance adopted if necessary. However, it is certainly our goal, as I said at the outset, that the authorities of the state administration, the judicial authorities, continue uninterrupted with regular work, as well as that, through compliance with these instructions and guidelines on the protection of the lives and health of civil servants or civil servants in the judiciary, judges, and state lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10407	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10408	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you Minister for this exhaustive response, I am glad that certain actions have been taken and based on government decisions, but here is the decision of you as minister at the head of the ministry itself. We do not need to stress at all how important it is for our citizens to have the authorities of the state administration, especially now that they are under the jurisdiction of both the judiciary and the judicial authorities to function and to carry out their affairs uninterruptedly. In addition to this, I will only make a small note, with all the reforms ahead of you, especially what is quite current and related to the reform of local self-government, we must not forget, and I believe that you will also make every effort to do so, which is exactly the reform and digitisation of the system itself, especially the digitisation of the public administration, but also the judiciary and the judicial bodies here and now in this crisis we see how much grace it can bring us, how much faster certain processes and normal it can be available to our citizens, so here with all the efforts and problems that the covid puts before us and presents us, do not accidentally give up on digitization, and it is maximum... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10409	The 34th issue of Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev asks the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10410	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Minister, Mrs. Vouchkovic. In the Republic of Croatia, European grants under the Rural Development Programme from 2014. It is funded to build and equip numerous kindergartens, playgrounds, cultural firehouses, unclassified roads. However, all of this in settlements or municipalities and cities that have less than 5,000 inhabitants. At the same time, we have programs that finance urban areas such as Split, Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik. Furthermore, editing and investing in small cities, the war affected areas such as Knin, Vukovar, Petrinja, Benkovac, and cities such as my Vodice, which count more than 5000, and less than 10,000, must raise loans for the same investments to build their kindergartens and their social facilities. My question now is at a time when the terms and conditions for funding are negotiated and negotiated from the next financial perspective from 2021 to '27. will injustice be corrected against such settlements, cities and municipalities, and why is there at all a limit in obtaining funds from the 5,000-inhabitant rural development programme, whether it is an EU directive or is negotiated at the expense of such settlements? Does this change over the next programming period, and will cities of larger and more than 5,000 inhabitants, and less than 10,000 invest and build their buildings by means of grants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10411	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10412	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Appreciated, ma'am. MPs, the Rural Development Programme under measure 7 funded investments in various forms of local and social infrastructure that some of you mentioned. I also invest in basic forms of municipal infrastructure, with particular emphasis on investment in unclassified roads and investment in water supply and disposal systems, etc. Less systems. As you said, part of such measures was envisaged to limit the settlement to a maximum of 5000 inhabitants, or 2,000 inhabitants, if we talk about water supply and disposal systems. It is not about the directive, but it is about Eurostat's recommendation that the demarcation of local infrastructure in rural areas should start from the border of the population of 5000 inhabitants and the density of the population of 300 inhabitants, so I believe in such a recommendation and programmed in 2014. where of 6765 settlements as many as Croatia's numbers, 70 remains unearthed, 79 settlements that have more than 5000 inhabitants in Croatia have been disembarked. So 1.17% in these 1.17% indeed live more than 35% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. For the next programming period, this government has a responsibility to program in a way that, in the framework of rural development, but also in other mechanisms of which you mentioned some as integrated territorial investments financed from another operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, there is no gap, there is no such demarcation of the programme in which some municipalities and cities will remain completely without the possibility of financing the basic local infrastructure because it must not be... So here, although I can't confirm at this point how we're going to set the criteria, I can confirm that this will be co-operation with JLS representatives and that the distinction will be such that you won't lose support. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10413	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10414	Thank you very much, Minister, here I appeal to you, the Prime Minister, for the entire government once again when negotiating and negotiating the funding conditions from the next financial perspective, do not forget the cities, municipalities and settlements of over 5,000 inhabitants so that they can also achieve their grants for their projects because now that we look at them, for example. In the surroundings of the town of Vodice, fewer municipalities have managed to build or build kindergartens by means of grants. We have the City of Sibenik which has one program, the City of Knin which has another and only we have stayed in the environment in such a way and had to finance the construction of its kindergarten by raising credit. Of course, it's not the same for our citizens and they're calling the mayor and why they didn't do the same thing as the neighboring cities and municipalities. We are all looking for a balanced development of all corners and for every praise that this government has managed to provide funding for 200 new kindergartens from the Rural Development Programme, where a billion kunas have been allocated and as many as 7800 more places are provided in kindergartens, the total government from other funds has provided the equipment and editing of 500 kindergartens and we can commend that the Rural Development Programme is one of our most successful programmes. It can be found on the pages that by the end of August as many as 60% of the funds were withdrawn and obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10415	The 35th question, MP Angelo Strick asks the question of Defence Minister Marija Banozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10416	Thank you, President HS. President of the Croatian Government, vice-presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Secretary of Defense. In the last term, we brought in the National Security Strategy after 15 years, and then the National Security System Act. This law shall refer to all bodies and institutions in charge of security of coordination and cooperation. We are witnessing that we are living in rather challenging times, that security threats are becoming more and more frequent than climate change, migrant crises, terrorist attacks, elemental disasters, and now to an epidemic of the coronary virus that has affected the whole world. When we send our Croatian soldiers into the mission's retirement, I think the public is well aware of it because we are discussing it here at HS and of course it is being voted on, but I believe that the public is far less familiar with sending our soldiers to help our civilian institutions, so if you can give one review back a year, two where all the Croatian military was engaged, when in which system, especially in helping suppress the crown of the virus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10417	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10418	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished parliamentary deputies, MPs. I would like to thank the parliamentary representative for the matter. In fact, the Croatian Army as an component of Homeland Security is involved in the work of civil institutions, providing support to civil institutions and thus all civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Its primary task is to defend the Croatian state, thus developing primarily the defence capabilities of the Croatian military, as you stated in the peace missions and operations, but also to support civil institutions. Lately, perhaps the most important thing in the Croatian Army through supporting civil institutions is definitely the fire-fighting season because we know that Croatian Air Force is doing essential tasks especially during the summer period when we have a tourist season where they participate in fire protection with the help of the fire-fighting community and in this they receive support not only from the air but also from the Croatian Navy's land armies. Furthermore, support from the Croatian Air Force is manifested through emergency medical transport, the transport of transplant bodies, but also the provision of support for missing persons' searches. What may be most important today because of the very appearance of the crown, i.e. the provision of support to health institutions, means in agreement with the county civil protection headquarters with the rest of the Ministry of Health, but also with all other health institutions at County level, logistics support is also provided. So here we have had 71 tents to support the conduct of triage procedures and accommodation of patients for medical purposes, with more than 260 members of the Battle for general logistics support of command with their field military equipment. In addition to expedition camps and tents for triage and patient reception, military medical staff are included, so the military health centre of the Support Command which provides assistance to the mentioned public health services in Zagreb, Gospić and the Island of Krk while tents and expedition camps are set up primarily at the KBC Zagreb, KB Dubrava Zagreb, Hospital for Infectious Diseases Dr. Fran Mihljević Zagreb, KBC Sisters Milordnice Zagreb, Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb to support students in nutrition. In front of the Veterinary Hospital of the University of Zagreb for the triage of animals, pets and also social infrastructures or religious communities that died in the earthquake in Zagreb, this is the Basilica of the Heart of Jesus in Zagreb. The Croatian Army also set up a tent at KBC Split, Sibenik General Hospital and Zadar General Hospital. I also mentioned the military health center of the command that provides support and assistance above all, it is Dr. Andrija Printar in Zagreb, where we are involved with two doctors on a weekly basis, helps the institution, the emergency air medical transport on the Island of Krk where we have two doctors, two medical technicians on a weekly basis, the County Public Health Institute of Ličko-Senj County in Gospić, one doctor on a weekly basis provides assistance in monitoring the epidemiological situation. Centre of Civil Protection of Split-Dalmatia County where we took 100 military beds and 10 beds to the Red Cross. There is also the Civil Protection Centre of the Karlovac County, so it provides further support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10419	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10420	Ministers, thank you for your response, I believe that the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army are doing well. This is what many praises and rewards are given to our soldiers and peace missions, as well as to our civilian institutions. Your answer best provides one picture that always gives the Croatian Army the highest marks after researching the public, precisely because you are now in response, i.e. in the review cited. Also, I will quote here a sentence of Peter Vlah's HRT reporter after the earthquake in Zagreb when the dust hasn't settled yet, when we were all full of emotion, he said: "I'm going to say this who will ever after this day and after this morning in Croatia that we should not invest in the Croatian military, in civil protection and in the police." I think he said everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10421	Thank you. We have four more questions, just so you can plan your time, so after that we'll take a 15-minute break and then there'll be free speeches. Point, the first item of the agenda of the Prime Minister's Report on European Council meetings will be in 15 hours and 30 minutes. So you're about to have a checkup. It is now up to counterpart Ivan Celic to question Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10423	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in the latest European report on drugs, published by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction on 22 September, highlights the dangers posed by the production of illegal drugs and drug trafficking for the health and safety of EU citizens. The management of drug import markets in the hands of criminal organisations, the largest cocaine seized, large heroin confiscation leads to a constant threat posed by criminals who want to use supply chains, maritime routes and large ports for the purpose of drug trafficking. Increased availability of all illegal drugs leads to an increase in health risks. The new agenda and the EU action plan to combat drugs for the period from 2021 to 2025 offers a political and strategic framework for an effective and comprehensive response to the challenges of drug-related safety and public health and the application of all relevant instruments at local and national level, EU and international level. Two basic pillars of each national strategy are the reduction of supply and the reduction of demand. Can you please tell us what the MUP Republic is doing in the area of drug trafficking, production and drug abuse on national and European and international terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10424	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10425	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, and thank you for putting this issue in the public's focus, I think it deserves it. The part that you have rightly stated here is this very European framework and through the European report on drugs and the fight against drug addiction that shows us in fact that through the interception of a large shipment, a trend of infiltration of organised criminal groups has been observed precisely in these legal, legal supply chains, maritime routes of the port, which for Croatia as a member of the EU and given our geographical position is very relevant, and also this political and strategic framework from the European action plan, which just points to the importance of dealing with this problem, which represents one of the greater challenges not only for the security but also for public health of the population. The Croatian police, I can freely say, have become and recognized and trusted partner to all relevant European, US and global agencies because it has a clear principle that in the fight against drug trafficking, international co-operation has actually no alternative and in this sense it has shown its determination and efficiency and professionalism. As for the part you mentioned about the national level, the Croatian police had more than 6,100 individual seizures in the first 9 months alone. So some 20 seized daily, which I think is a very relevant data that speaks about its effectiveness both at local and regional level and at national and international level. Of course, this local level refers primarily to reduction, reduction of the presence of drugs on the streets, but what we are talking about is that when we talk about international actions they are both long-term and planned, they focus on organised crime holders and these are extensive and complex criminal research. Right through them we see that efficiency. I would only mention this year Falkushu about a ton of cocaine, and from earlier on we know the actions both Nana and Nexus and Tebra in which Croatian police have indeed positioned themselves as an inevitable agency in the fight against drug trafficking at European and world level. What I would especially point out is that despite the coronary epidemic, not only is this job not slowed down, but we're recording results that are at the level and last year, but I believe they'll be exceeded. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10426	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10427	Thank you for your answer. As president of the Committee for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the City of Zagreb, I am aware of the importance of interdisciplinary approach because when we talk about drug addiction, it is not only a health problem, there is also the importance of the Ministry of Interior, Justice, Education, Social Policy. We are standing before the month of the fight against addiction, which will be marked from 15 November to 15 December. We are on the "Balkan Route", so there are a lot of security problems with this "Balkan Route" go to migrants, but unfortunately drugs have been going for decades that have been moving in billions of dollars for the annual traffic of these illegal drugs. So you mentioned only one of the Falkuš actions, it's worth 40 million euros of seized drugs and in fact the effective action of the Ministry of the Interior has certainly contributed to the growing number of heroin addicts in recent years because these heroin routes are actually blocked in a significant number. Preventive activities are the key to success, and the Zagreb Police Administration is doing a great job, education on primary schools and this occasion, so I want to thank you, your team and especially the drug crime service that is doing the job that you said is recognizable at global level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10428	Now, MP Zdravka Busic will set up laundry for Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10429	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Foreign and European Ministers. At the beginning of last month, I think it was in Dubrovnik that Mr. Prime Minister and you, Mr. Minister, met with Mr. Pompey in Dubrovnik with US Secretary of State. The meeting certainly provided an opportunity to exchange views on a number of topics concerning relations between Croatia and the United States that have been developing all these years, and we agree that in the last 30 years. We have come a long way, as he himself, as he pointed out and himself the head of American diplomacy. Two topics that are really important and important for Croatia, both for Croatia and for Croatian citizens, as well as for American citizens, are particularly highlighted, which are the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and visa regimes or better known Treaty on visa-free regimes for Croatian citizens. These two agreements are definitely very important for Croatia and we know very well that the absence of this, especially this first year of all years, has made it very difficult to start business in the United States for Croatian citizens, and thus made it difficult to invest in, in, in Croatia. Minister, can you tell us if the Croatian government has already begun the procedure, whether it has initiated a procedure for the conclusion of this avoidance agreement? on the avoidance of double taxation and when Croatian citizens [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Go to the U.S. without a visa? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10430	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10431	... Of course, thank you very much, Mrs. MPs, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs and Mrs. Representatives. [[Speaker not enabled]] Of course, there is always a meeting of a Croatian official with an official of the US administration, high, so the secretary of state always draws attention not only to the media but also to all the public. Of course, the meeting was in Dubrovnik, as you said at the ministerial level on October 2nd and at the prime minister's extra. The role of the United States is not to be talked about, is of global importance, strength, power and influence of America is visible, the generator of all important security, foreign policy, trade etc. influence and change. After 8 years. That meeting happened here and I'd say there's one of the most important foreign events in the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned here this few topics, that we have balanced our bilateral topics, but we have much in common since the United States and ally are in NATO, and the United States actually appreciates exactly the geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia and its security importance here in this part of Europe. We talked about the Middle East, so we talked about broader meanings of common interest. But what is important, but you didn't mention, we were actually talking about Southeastern Europe, comprehensively about the Western Balkans with a special emphasis on BiH ahead of the anniversary of 25th anniversary, the anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Agreement where we actually asked again and more strongly for the US's commitment and activity when it comes to stability, functionality and prosperity of BiH on 25th. After the signing of the Dayton Agreement. In fact, I stressed that the position of the Croatian people in BiH is not in line with the spirit and letter of the Dayton Agreement, and we, as co-signator of the Dayton Agreement, are under obligation and in constitutional obligation to care and care for the Croatian people in BiH. We think and follow that in these 25 years it's a certain so-called. The moving reforms and changes or distortions of the Dayton Agreement have gone in the direction that has actually damaged the position of the Croatian people. Namely, the Croatian people have the right to choose all their representatives in all bodies means the political bodies of the BiH state. In fact, this is not the case now and I have pointed out this problem, namely the three-member presidency is just a reflection of images of such a one-state state. So I prayed for more active support means restoring the political equality of Croats to BiH at all levels of government, which will go hand in hand with all decisions of the Constitutional Court and by changing the electoral law. Of course, these two things are very important, and I would like to point out the role of the MUP that created the preconditions for us to get to the apps or those rejections below the threshold below 3%. They also later concluded two air safety agreements and amendments to passenger information. And this second listen it's not a dispute, we're now it's in the procedure so ours an agreement to avoid double taxation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10432	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10433	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, of course I wanted to, and the Dayton Agreement is such a broad, broad subject that it really wasn't enough time for me to ask all these questions, and surely that's one key, key topic that you're going to get later on. However, I wanted to concentrate right now on these two topics relating to Croatia, Croatia and the United States' relations with both investment and our citizens. This avoidance agreement will certainly strengthen economic activities between Croatia and the United States, but I also wanted to point out that the agreement on avoidance of double taxation is particularly interesting and interesting and very important for Croatians, Croats living in America who are in their third lifetime and want to enjoy their pension in Croatia without their pensions earned in America being double taxed. Well, that's kind of what I wanted to emphasize as a lightmotive. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10434	The last question, MP Arsen Bauk asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10435	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, by analysing this representative's current morning, I noticed that for most opposition MPs you found their drawer, which is what you would call a skaffet downstairs. Michel Jaksic should not have asked questions about the performance of you, but about the relation to Koprivnica, Mr Demetlika should not have asked a question about this land but about the ipsion, Hajdash had his own shrimp that he was a notifier, etc. My shrimp has been about the following so far, my Brachanin, my favorite basketball judge, and I'm going to quote my favorite representative in the assembly since there's no Maras. Did I quote correctly? Thank you. And this part of the shrimp for questions I assume you expect me to question something about the island. That would be by these criteria, and I will satisfy your expectations here. Namely, next to the town of Trogir there is an island called Ciovo and on it is a shipyard where the situation is alarming because part of the worker who has remained in Brodotrogir parent company as well as in Croatia's Trogir Shipyard, and it has not been paid for about 250 people for 3 months. The whole Brodotrogir group has cca 600 employees. What workers are asking for out of agony, i.e. a clear definition of whether production will continue. In the pre-election campaign, where Hajdash said you had seen many things, you said that the shipbuilding was saved and that the government would issue the necessary guarantees to Uljanika, 3 May and Brodotrogir. We didn't see that coming, did we? It's good. There were no guarantees for the oil, he got them on May 3rd, and Brodotrogir didn't get the guarantees. So here's my question: Will you keep your promise? What about the promised guarantees to Brodotrogiru won't end up in a skafet like these opposition MPs, or it'll be on that promise of crazy joy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10436	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10437	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Bauk. I'm signing all of what I think of you very well today. I think you're pleased with that. As for the guarantees to the shipyards, yes, the government had a conclusion in June concerning our strong will to maintain, under new circumstances, Croatian shipbuilding that will be such that it will be able to withstand market pressures and will operate in market circumstances. On May 3rd, thanks to our government's decisions, he went as far away as possible. You saw that we were in Rijeka a month ago I think about a month and a half ago when the ship that was finished for the Canadian orderer was called Algoma Intrepid fearless, with one great enthusiasm, work and strong support of all people in the shipyard, workers of the river shipyard but above all one huge trust that we developed in difficult circumstances after the fact that we paid 4 and a half billion euros for Croatian shipyards in the past term. You remember that, it wasn't the guarantees of our governments, it was the guarantees of some other governments. But we are also in constant contact and we are trying to resolve all legal issues that would allow us to revitalise the shipyard in Pula, Uljanik, this time within another society, other companies, and not those that were in trouble at the time. And here I think we're on a very good path and all the decisions that are made are made with the aim of making it possible to revitalise. When it comes to Brodotrogir, which we care about the same way, which is just as dear to us as the Third May and the Uljannik, and the urgency is to enable this process, so to issue guarantees. What is currently under way, and I believe that you know that because you are familiar with this because you are obviously a little concerned with the issue of Brodotrogir, at this point we need an adequate request from the company itself, i.e. that the very right society requires these guarantees and then the Government will act and allow for continued work in Brodotrogir, one of these three shipyards that we then indicated. As far as this fourth Grand Brodosplit is concerned, there's already been systematic cooperation and we've issued one guarantee somewhere in the spring, I can't remember now whether it was May or the beginning of June. In any case, we take care of all four, each of us about his shrimp if you want, but with the aim of including everything now in line with the state support policy that applies to us at European Union level, I assume that you remember and you were in the government, so you know that. And secondly, if any such engagement did not end in the way that some guarantees were ended where the money was spent, the ships were not built, and instead of the people in the pay market ended up in banks or other creditors who found themselves in order to collect. So, this is the whole momentum with the ambition to help Trogir, to help Split-Dalmatia County, to help the shipbuilding industry in Croatia at all. Here, so much for these shrimps with each other's sympathies and four more years at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10438	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10439	Thank you. I'm multiplely satisfied with the answer. First these compliments we exchange remain I see still. You have these others to exchange compliments with. I see you've calmed down here. No animal kingdom, no good. Second, as far as the answer is concerned, you've covered all four shipyards. In fact, in the shipbuilding story, it's not just halftime. I would say that there is a tournament with a large number of matches and a large number of half-times, and it is certain that there will need both great knowledge and great resources, and in that sense it is one continuity of government work in the plural that tried to keep the shipbuilding. For now, it seems to me that the least of it has happened in the Ulnik, but of course we'll see how things continue to develop. I also hope, I know that I don't need to warn you about the need to respect the law and the labour rights, therefore, as far as payouts and lags and severances are concerned, and everything that belongs to workers under the law. You have now confirmed your promise and we hope that you will not violate them, and for the systematicity of the whole answer I pray for this question and the written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10440	And the last question of a respected colleague, Peja Grbin, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10441	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to you in the last few days when you spoke of lockdown and I am deeply convinced that you mean what you said and we agree greatly. The Republic of Croatia really doesn't need a new lockdown, no one wants one. When we remember March and April we know how uncomfortable we felt when we couldn't leave our homes, and yet we know how devastatingly this affected the Croatian economy. However, I find you deeply wrong when you say that lockdown is not to be discussed or thought. If we know how many of the 100 thousand inhabitants in Croatia are infected and we compare it to Germany, France, Great Britain or today Austria, which is being introduced by lockdown and if we know that Minister Beros spoke today, I literally quote him: “about patient tsunami”, then it is quite clear that we can not only talk about lockdown, but we need to talk and think first of all about how to avoid it. And to avoid it, Mr. Prime Minister, we can't do a verse, we can't do it at hockey by making decisions, but we can only use the system, call the strategy if you want by model, model that will have clear control points, clear Benchmarks, clear passing time, model that will predict the development of the situation and predict how Croatia will react. The only way we can avoid it is by running an operational program. Unfortunately, I do not see the operational programme of your government and therefore I ask you – is the Government ready to adopt and then implement such a programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10442	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10443	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As regards the fight strategy against COVID-19 which is obviously a key topic today, and logically, it is a key topic and it is good that the topic and the current hour and our dialogue are crucial. We'll talk about it this afternoon. I am pleased that you agree on how you welcome the government's strategy to avoid lockdown, which I think is the most important message. So the message is that you as the new leader of the SDP are not for lockdown either, that's the message I'm going to remember from your presentation today. The second message is that you question the systematicity of our measures. So, you think the strategy we've been applying since February to this day might be some kind of verse improvisation. That's about the message you want to send us today. I don't know that part of brainstorming was your colleague Doncic, you see that's not so, Hajdash Doncic, I apologize for equality, is that fair? There. You went one step further that was before the building. As regards the strategy taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which is wise and good for us, and now takes place not only on the basis of our assessments, consultation with scientific advice, the epidemiological profession, the comparative analysis of what is happening in neighbouring countries in EU countries at global level, it is a strategy that is the fruit of taking measures that will indeed be proportionate, adequate, appropriate, timely and that will allow for the protection of the health of our fellow citizens, while at the same time enabling the functioning of our lives to at least to the extent to which it will not improve the spread of the infection. There is a whole strategy, and it will also enable economic activity, allow as little damage to public finances as possible. And in that triangle, so the triangle of the legal base, the triangle of health activity, the triangle of economic and financial activity, we have, in my opinion today, succeeded in all aspects, and you've certainly noticed, I think even someone told you that my statement at the government's session was funny that we have indications that the measures taken will lead to slower growth. You see that growth when we compare today's numbers of newly infected compared to the week before, so on last Tuesday, we have a growth of only 1%, only a small 1%, so it's not an exponential growth, it's not 50% not by 100% but by 1%. That means we've been able to send key measures and key messages. We are not going to fall into a trap of pressure from media, political anyone to go into some kind of curfew, to go to a lockdown that will limit our citizens' rights and cause us economic damage, which will not affect the dynamics of the spread of the infection. ...this government with this experience and with a comparative approach I'm sure I won't venture. On the contrary, they will avoid and that is the goal of our policy and I think that the results will soon and even more concretely show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10444	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10445	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. If the tests were even less than this small number of tests that Croatia is conducting, I'm sure the number of diagnosed covid cases would be smaller, so if you reduce the tests to zero, then you might be able to re-prove the victory over the covida as you did half a year ago. But I believe neither you nor anyone else in this room thinks it would be a solution and thinks it would be an answer to the crisis. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, you misunderstood me. I disagree with your strategy, I agree with your goal and I will be free to say with our goal because it is not only yours or my goal that is the goal of everyone in this country because the new lockdown would be devastating. It would also be devastating for the mental health of our fellow citizens and for our economy. But I can't agree with your strategy. And do you know why? Because your strategy is gone, there is no strategy. The RS government's response to the covid crisis has been reduced to hiding behind headquarters, it has been reduced to taking ad hoc measures of which it is strongest, let's call it a ban on drinking since midnight. That's what we can't deal with with with the covid crisis. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, tents are being placed outside the hospital, the Arena is being reactivated, Mr. Berosh is talking about the patient's tsunami, and we don't have a specific operational program and answer what we will do if the number of infected increases by 10, 50 or 100%. That's what I ask of you, that's what you get trust for, and that's what you're responsible for, but it's also what you don't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10446	Thank you. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Now we're going to take a 15-minute break, so the sequel is at 14.25, just a little bit of discussion by clubs and independent representatives, the first is the colleague Zekanovic. When that ends at 14.30 pardons in 15.30 minutes will be the European Council's meeting report. Comrade Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10447	Injury of the Rules of Procedure The 144th President of the Parliament, it is you, you are required to inform the MPs of issues on which the Government has not delivered the agreement within 30 days. I will remind you, 60 days ago, I asked Plenkovic a question, who protects the illegal actions of Emil Tedeschi 100 days ago, and I asked Marić what the 100,000 budget kunas were spent on morbid celebration in Serbia in July this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10448	Here I'll answer you, so the government's 103 questions are answered to 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10449	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10450	I'm sorry, and it's not answered 32 questions, and I'm going to send the government a rush to answer those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10451	Then I'd like another breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is an art. 14th that says clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10452	My colleague Vidovic Kristo, let's do this when we go, and then you will appeal to my successor now in this place to my colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10453	So let me just say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10454	They're no longer working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10455	But I want to tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10456	I told you to tell your colleagues that to Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10457	Why are you so nervous? MEETING AT 14:10 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10458	Dear MPs and deputies continue to work before us: - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held on 1st and 2nd October 2020 and 15th and 16th October 2020 in Brussels The Report is submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So just at the beginning of a few notes, we agreed at the presidency before adopting a new Rules of Procedure of course working conditions. The promoter will speak for 20 minutes, on behalf of the clubs for 10 minutes, individual debates for 5 minutes. All MPs can reply to the applicant's presentation whether they are in a large council or in other rooms, with them reporting, of course, for the word, and then the secretariat officials will bring us their applications here. Of course, our colleagues and colleagues who are video related to the Croatian Assembly can participate with us, and if they report for discussion or replica, they will also have the right to their presentations. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. I would now ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to file a report. Go ahead, Prime Minister. You can start, Mr. President, is, is, can and without a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10459	Okay, if it's by the book, then it's okay. Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, taught our practice that we have introduced in the past term of the Croatian Parliament i.e. We continue to report regularly to the Croatian Parliament, and this way and the public on the most important aspects of the meetings of the European Council that took place in the meantime. We had two formal meetings, one regular, one extraordinary and two in Brussels with a number of topics of political, economic, foreign policy, full debate on Covid-19, strengthening coordination between Member States. At all meetings, we stressed the importance of Union unity and determined joint action in this unprecedented situation. With strong support from the European Commission in order to overcome the crisis as soon as possible, we set a solid and sustainable basis for economic recovery, strengthening crisis resistance and improving all European citizens. Listed meetings should be seen in the context of deep global changes and overcoming the relations of the world's largest economic forces, and in search of a better and more competitive position in global markets, taking into account all those changes brought by the fourth industrial revolution, including the digitisation of society and the imperative of meeting the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. The government delivered the reports to the Croatian Parliament as well as the texts of the conclusions. First of all, something about the October 1st and 2nd meeting where we discussed the unity of the Union market with a special reference to industrial policy and digital transformation. A number of topics were discussed in external relations, the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and negotiations on future relations between the Union and the United Kingdom. The German Presidency also informed us about the talks with the European Parliament on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan with a view to reaching an interinstitutional agreement as quickly as possible. We have concluded that the Covida-19 pandemic will leave lasting consequences on the European and the world economy. Therefore, a strong economic base is crucial for inclusive and sustainable growth, jobs and resilience to similar crises in the future. Achieving strategic autonomy with the preservation of an open economy has been identified as a key objective of the Union. Due to the different views and initial positions of Member States on the global market, we will discuss this concept at a number of other meetings, and this will also be the topic of the conference on the future of Europe. The key issue for the EU at this time is how to build our own capacities and self-sustainability of the economy, and how to put and deal with the challenges of the globalised world as well as with growing and more entrepreneurial world powers, while retaining high standards and fundamental values. The important step on this road is to quickly return to normal functioning of the single market. But we believe that our European ambitions must go beyond that. At European level, stronger responses are needed to the challenges of green transition, digital transformation and a global context that is rapidly developing and affecting each member. Investments in education, vocational training, effective use of skills in order to preserve and create a greater number of jobs are identified among the key points of leadership and in the context of Member States' development plans and measures. An ambitious European industrial policy is also highlighted as a lever for achieving a more sustainable and sustainable economy that must be greener and more competitive at the same time. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is a reality, its development potentials are enormous, but we must not underestimate the serious challenges it poses. The development of digital transformation and the promotion of the digital transition of society are identified as key to sustainable development. The European Council welcomed the European data strategy supporting the Union's global digital ambitions. Our goal is to build a competitive European data economy while ensuring European values and high levels of data security, data protection and privacy. It must be digitally in the service of citizens, whether it is about protecting their privacy and business data or providing administrative services. Important components of designing Europe's digital future are considered 5G technologies and artificial intelligence. These are topics that the technological future brings us and that, in addition to technical ones, have their own political, legal, social and ethical implications. As regards 5G technology, the European Council concluded that potential technology suppliers should be assessed on the basis of common objective criteria and called on Member States to apply relevant restrictions to high risk suppliers for key assets defined as critical and sensitive in coordinated Union risk assessments. As far as artificial intelligence is concerned, the Council's huge speed area has urged the Commission to propose ways to increase European and national public and private investment in innovation and research, as well as better coordination and synergies between European research centres. We have concluded that the Union should be a leader in the development of secure, reliable and ethical artificial intelligence. I am sure that Croatia and our young experts who have already proved in practice their innovation and knowledge can also make a significant contribution and be competitive on this pro-pulsive market. We have also discussed the best response to the crisis and the strengthening of the foundations of our further development, and above all in these circumstances Covid-19 and these by many special years means preparing a mechanism for recovery and resilience. So we work intensively in the government on the National Recovery and Resistance Programme so that we can use the funds in the next 6 years. I note, it is a programme and funding, which is very favourable to loans with which there is no national participation of 15%, which have a retroactive, beneficial circumstance to apply to the costs incurred since February of this year, so 2020, and the funds will be used by 2026, more precisely by summer. So we have to be quick and efficient in their absorption. We expect that for the next month, we will be in a position to complete, in my opinion, the final draft of this programme that I expect to discuss here in HS. In the context of the preparation of this important document, I would like to remind you and the public that two components of so-called components are needed to withdraw these funds. The green component of 37% and the digital component of 20%. So it's very important to think about these two specifics when we're thinking about programs for the future. On foreign policy issues, we discussed the eastern Mediterranean, China, the situation in Belarus, relations between Armenia and Azerbaijan. It's mostly the shortest way to recapture the views exactly as you've seen in the very part of the written report, so I wouldn't be talking too much about it right now, but I'd like to say a few more sentences about what seems more important to me, which is, above all, a debate with the council on October 15th and 16th, so just over two weeks ago where we had our first orientational debate on climate change, and that's to reduce greenhouse gases. In order to achieve the Union's objectives to become climate neutral by 2050, we should increase our ambitions for the coming decade and update our climate policy framework. In this respect, the most important part of the conclusion concerns the proposal to reduce emissions by at least 55% to 2030. I would like to stress here that all countries will participate in achieving that goal, which is precisely the greatest importance for the future of our continent. The topic of climate change must be and remain at the top of our priority. That's what I mean at national level. The original goal we set was to reduce the emissions by 40% by 2030, I'm talking about the initial level since 1990. In these circumstances, rapidly changing circumstances needed to find a way where we would show greater ambition and a desire for this reduction to be 55% by 2030 and full climate neutrality by 2050. The European Council will discuss climate change and our contribution to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change practically constantly in the years ahead. This council also dealt with relations with Africa after a similar debate was conducted by the Foreign Affairs Council and reached its conclusions on the last day of the Croatian Presidency, I think it was June 30th, and we stressed the strong partnership between the Union and Africa as a continent of the future, we also stressed from the aspect of Croatia the importance of fighting poverty, strengthening the rule of law, strengthening management capacity, administrative capacity, highlighted the issue of illegal migration, supported a comprehensive approach aimed at the roots and causes of uncontrollable migration, and all the consequences of this topic for the stability of the European continent. At that time, we discussed both the current and the situation with the covida-19 pandemic, the full seriousness and responsibility of all European leaders on this subject sought to agree on a harmonised effort at Union level, and the quality coordination that started right during the Croatian Presidency was welcomed, and I mean, in particular, regular meetings of the health ministers. The topics that are currently on the table are to find the right way to coordinate action and exchange information and about the rules relating to quarantine, cross-border monitoring of contacts, testing, temporary restrictions on optional travel. Of course, work on the development and distribution of vaccines has been welcomed. We reiterated the need for a reliable process of approval and monitoring of the building of vaccination capacities in the Union and of fair and affordable vaccines. At the last informal meeting that took place on Thursday, so five days ago that was held through a video connection and you don't have a written report because, according to the current rules, we're not even obliged to report it, and it was simply too late to distribute, I just want to tell you a few details. This coordination meeting is one in a series relating to covid-19, the awareness of the seriousness of the situation is very high, so it is common, unique, there is no member of the Union that does not understand the seriousness of the current situation. Conscious of these challenges we have decided to increase efforts through the European Centre for Disease Control, etc. ISDS, which includes information on the capacity of, for example, intensive units in hospitals. The President of the Commission has proposed that the Commission set up a platform to bring together scientific advisers of heads of state and government and exchange knowledge and ask for ways to fight this phenomenon together because reducing the spread of infection in one country in the medium term does not mean that if the situation is not under control elsewhere, it will allow long-term stability. That is why the creation of a European framework for antigen tests was also discussed and the necessity of mutual recognition of tests was discussed, so we are currently in a position not to recognise each other's antigen tests. The Commission is of the opinion that it is also important to use mobile applications to monitor contacts, primarily through the common European interoperability of the system, which should cover a number of members by the end of November. We are also in the process of joining this initiative. As far as further activities are concerned, we have concluded that supply chains must remain open, this is a very important communal message at EU level, as well as rail and maritime transport, all that allows us to make logistics, procurement, the provision of those key services still functional. All of this is done to ensure trust in each other's protection procedures of the Member States, so that for the sake of all of us and our economy, we can. our economies remain as open and connected as possible in the coming weeks and months. We made two proposals at this meeting. First, that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is, in addition to all the expertise already provided by the member states regarding the pandemic, future support will be for all members in the development of a common model for predicting possible future scenarios of pandemic dynamics, at least a few weeks in advance. A uniform methodology and scientifically justified forecasts would help all members of the Union to adopt timely and harmonised and affected measures to combat the spread of the epidemic. Such a tool would be of great benefit to all members, especially our economy. We have also proposed that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control develop unique protocols whereby all members of the Union could carry out serological studies of their population in order to establish a real state of the current spread of the epidemic in the population. In fact, most countries are mainly testing cases where we have a certain suspicion of infection, so it's mostly showing up symptomatic cases, which is of course important, but it doesn't give a complete picture. Several members carry out random serological tests on representative samples of the population and thus obtain perhaps a more complete picture of the condition of the infection. Such epidemiological studies may reveal what part of the population has been infected so far, including those asymptomatic cases that remain unknown today. Without this information, it is not possible to develop a precise model of predicting the future development of the epidemic. These proposals have been welcomed, and the European Commission will see with the European Centre how these ideas can also be taken into account in further joint activities on the prevention of the epidemic. When it comes to the issue of the greatest meaning, which is ultimately part of the solution, it is a vaccine that is a key tool in the fight against the crown of the virus, what is most important that all EU citizens, and of course Croatians who decide to vaccine, will be able to get that vaccine, so that is a very important message. The Union has concluded agreements with several companies to purchase their vaccines in appropriate quantities. These vaccines are now in the final stages of testing. No matter what vaccine these companies have approved by the European Medicines Agency as safe and effective, we can be sure that Croatian citizens will also receive the vaccine. The first doses should come in a few months, and we should have a more massive vaccination if everything is according to these current findings during the spring. It is now necessary to take preparatory action for this possibility. We are, of course, at the end, and I would like to say that, we were also talking about at that moment the consequences of the terrorist acts that occurred in France. Part of our debate was dedicated to this topic, and this time again on behalf of the Croatian government, I would like to express solidarity with France for a series of these terrorist attacks that took place on its territory, and of course with Austria after this attack that took place yesterday in Vienna. In any case, I expect further intensive meetings and consultations which physically, which with video first on COVID-19, and then of course on all that concerns reaching the final agreement of the Commission. The Council and Parliament on the multiannual financial framework and the next generation instrument for the next 7 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10460	I thank the Prime Minister. We have 17 replicas. You can stay here, Mr. President. But I can see that my colleague Bulj is picking up. Here you go. ... Then stay seated. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. It's not working. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please let's see with the service why. Doesn't it work for others? ... We don't do microphones at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then go to the pay phone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just please, what? .....the intruder doesn't understand.. Sabotage, yes. Just before that, please delete this pay phone. First, overwrite the pay phone so that fellow Bull can do it, and then after that, let's see what's the reason the microphones don't work. Wait, wait a minute, Miro. Is it overwritten? It is. Yeah, then he can. All right, all right. Here you go, no crown, right? ... And you're over it already? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10461	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the report the Prime Minister presented here. Of course, in the name of the Club, we, too, express our condolences to the people of France, and now to the people of Austria because of the extremism and terrorism that is happening in their area because of the increase of the distinguished prime minister of Islam, we see that in this matter we have to react as soon as possible. I don't know if you've talked about it, that the borders are finally closed, that the Croatian army comes to the Croatian border and protects our territory from extreme Islamisation and extremists as it happens in other parts of Europe. It is our obligation above all and your constitutional obligation, I hope you are with your people in Brussels and agreed. But when we talk about the single market where you discussed and digitized, I'd like to ask a few questions. A prime minister like you and the people, what a single market this is where the PG network in Germany, Deutsche Telekom, had to pay 2.17 billion euros. In the Republic of Croatia, his sister company HT used this and did not pay the kuna. We don't need billions of kuna to invest that money, it's not a single market. If they pay in Germany 2.1 billion euros, why did they give in without a license to HT to use it, as first of all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? As a club, we are looking for unity, equality of all the markets, so on agriculture, too, on all the other branches. I don't think we have a chance on that single market. Thank you very much. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10462	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue in 10 minutes, and until then, I ask the service to see what happens to the microphone and why they don't work. I hope it'll be all right. We continue at 15.05, at 16.05. It's 15.57 o'clock. We continue our colleagues and colleagues with our work, please take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,08 HOURS]] Prime Minister, please come to the pay phone and start with the replicas. The first is the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10464	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, is a simple question. How much higher will we be in the EU compared to before?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10466	Thank you very much. You know that we pay a little more than EUR 400 million a year in membership fees, membership fees will be higher than our membership fees, but a contribution to the Croatian state budget. We predicted this and in next year's projections, precise calculations can go for a maximum of EUR 100 million more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10467	Thank you very much. What's a colleague of Zekanovic's, can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10468	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10469	So you know what, I'm asking you, look, we have a serious epidemiological situation, and now we've had a break. And now I'm gonna interrupt the assembly again to get out, so take care of your health a little bit, not just the procedure. I have to grant you a break, but I'm asking you to keep an eye on it now you could have talked about it five minutes ago. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10470	Thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to take a break. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. This is the first time we have heard from the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that we will pay EUR 100 million more contributions, he said, not membership fees, I misrepresented myself, I don't know the terminology, the EU annually. But it's not 100 as far as I understand it because Minister Maric told me otherwise, and he didn't say it from the pay phone, but he said it in the towers, so it's EUR 155 million to Minister Maric. And some Croatian citizens know that we have paid 495 so far and that we will be paying around 650 million euros a year in the future. And that's what the Prime Minister, the responsible Prime Minister, and every responsible politician must tell their people to whom they account. So we're going to get some money, but we're also going to have increased membership fees or contributions. It's not about a little money, and if we turn that money into kuna, it's about over a billion and 150 million kunas that we're going to have to spend more annually in the European budget. What is also very important to say here, the Prime Minister has boasted so far at least 10 times that I heard him here in the assembly and elsewhere that we would get European money. We have not seen any money from this European money except for something to restore Zagreb so far. But this money, this commitment she's not waiting for, she's going. And another very important thing that interests the Croatian public is where Croatia and the EU will pay back that money because this money is not in Angela Merkel's drawer or Mr Macron, so he will borrow this money and someone will pay back. Who's gonna bring him back? It will also be returned by Croatian citizens as well as citizens of all other EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10471	Okay. My colleague Zekanovic, can we continue immediately, given that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10472	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10473	Okay, we're gonna move on right now, so the second one's up, no, this isn't abuse of the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure. He has the right to request a break from every MP... Well, I won't give him a break because that's how we got along and it's better for all of us. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I think it's faster we're going to work and I think it's more useful. Here you go, buddy Bull. You're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10474	Thank you very much. I'd ask the prime minister two questions. The first question when we're talking about the single market, that's what I said in the apartment itself, and now I'd go a little bit more plastic. Croatia has agricultural land 1 comma 1 and a half million hectares, and the irrigated land of irrigation has 7,000 hectares. You said in your program that four-year-old that you're going to double, so there'll be 14,000 acres, that's 2 Blue Fields, that's a drop in the sea. So we're going to go to a single market, and we have not a single 0.1 promil of irrigated land. So we're talking about self-sufficiency. Also, the second question is, what do you say Germany has charged from Deutsche Telekom using the 5G network, and Croatia's HT charged that right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10475	Here, otherwise, we're in a plus 28 billion kuna so far, so total use of funds, it's also important that the public hears it. I don't see what the problem with the representative who just asked the question is that if the next 7 and 10 years, respectively, we get 173 billion kuna in total, we have some problem, like all other countries, to make a bigger contribution to the European budget. I don't think that's something that should be a problem, especially if we're going to have an enormous plus, if we've got most practically by all the criteria of all the Member States because they represented Croatian people who were able to explain what they were looking for. As for the 5G network, you probably know that at this point in the test phase of application, so in large cities, in 4 large cities, and I think another 2 smaller cities are using 5G networks, and the next one will go with auctions. for radio frequency spectrum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10476	Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Bull, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10477	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The prime minister injured Article 238 because he was not answering my question but the question of the predecessors. I was curious about why we forgive the HT money that was supposed to come into this crisis in the budget and I'm sorry for another 100 million kuna you reduced their fee this year, and they have 38% profit in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10478	Comrade Bulj, the Prime Minister can answer your question as he wishes, the public will assess whether and one part of his answer was, his answer was to answer your question. So there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's go, colleague Pavić of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10479	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, respected colleagues do not discuss the subject, the subject is the report from the European Council on 1st and 2nd September and 15th and 16th October. So let's get back to the subject and get back to the scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10480	Thank you colleagues and colleagues, but let me assess what can be asked, which is part of the topic widely interpreting it or not, so, my colleague Bulj, I don't think there's a need for a new breach of the Rules of Procedure right now because I also told my colleague Pavic that I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10481	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke of a multi-annual financial framework. However, in order for Croatia to start using funds from a multi-annual financial framework, we also need to do something at home. One of the main documents, the highest strategic document under the Strategic Planning System Act should be the National Development Strategy. By law, it was to be sent to HS by 31 March 2020, but this has not yet happened. On the other hand, copies of this National Development Strategy often give us opportunities to read in the newspaper where they are released. So instead of taking on pieces of the National Development Strategy, I would ask you to answer, when can we expect a consultation on the National Development Strategy, when can we expect a reference to HS and ultimately when can we expect it to be adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10482	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10483	Thank you very much. Here's another question, all three basically have nothing to do with the subject I was talking about, but never mind, it's the fastest connected to what the president would say. Here she is, this is the National Development Strategy. It is done as you know in the last 3 years, the document is comprehensive. It's true, the initial idea was that the draft then from, say, the first two months of this year go to public counseling and adopt itself. However, since we experienced a global score due to Covid-19 neither would it be wise nor would it be wise, nor would it be responsible to release to the public a document which at that time, given that it worked before the global pandemic, that segment does not take into account. And then, of course, as well as the other estimates that we had, which were correct, we concluded that we should first update the document under new circumstances. He was now updated during November will be in public consultation, And after the government adopts it, we will propose it to HS for discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10484	Let's move on, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad we finally got an answer when the National Development Strategy will be available. Mr. Prime Minister, you've already said that before, I mean when we discussed the latest report, and then I said that I was very glad that you said that you personally took the opportunity of European funds to be related to the rule of law. So I want to ask you once again in front of the Croatian public do you worry that Croatia will be denied if this criterion applies, the more the report did not celebrate? Let me just quote you some parts. There are still serious shortcomings in the Croatian judicial system in terms of efficiency and quality. The level of perceived judicial independence is still among the lowest in the EU. There are still shortcomings in legislation and practice in the fight against corruption, important initiatives have not yet been implemented to strengthen the ethical integrity of persons at the highest executive functions and parliamentary representatives, and to regulate lobbying. The Agency for Electronic Media is not Fully protected [[Intruder: Thank you]] of political influence, etc. etc. [[Intruder: colleague Hajdukovic]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10486	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10487	Here are the 4th questions that have nothing to do with the meetings of the European Council. We have, of course, communicated the findings of the European Commission relating to one unprecedented story, so this is a new mechanism of reviewing the rule of law based on different instructions from a number of souls, including from Croatia, which then give their own input to lower levels of the European Commission. What we said methodologically is my firm position, and the second time we did, we weren't the only ones who commented, and I mentioned it to the European Council, as well as the personally presidents of the Commission, that we first agreed on the facts. When the commission and the Croatian government agree to the facts as a Member State then we are on horseback, their conclusions, evaluation, impressions, impressions, eye color, we can let the evaluators do it, but when we agree on facts then there is no problem, no fear, Croatia respects the rule of law regardless of whether you root for it and will not be denied any means, I guarantee it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10488	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10489	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, at a regular meeting of the European Council, one of the topics was climate change. You mentioned just increasing Europe's climate ambitions by 2030. The debate also highlights the importance of wind and sun energy, and you have engaged in this debate and supported this higher level of ambition, but has also opened the topic of more demanding funding for the EU plan. I must say, it's recently opened on Vis by one of the largest solar power plants in the Mediterranean. Now I wonder if this is the direction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. how to exploit exactly this ambitious EU plan in terms of climate neutral future, are these exactly the kind of power plants we have opened on Visa, smart islands self-sustainable and how will the government be involved in these plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10490	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10491	Thank you very much. It is true that renewable energy sources, wind power plants, solar power plants are certainly the future that we see in the final energy strategy that the government adopted in the last term, and that is, of course, the goal and all other countries are working on that track. What is particularly important for Croatia, as well as for other countries that lived until 1989 and 1990. in regimes that we cannot call democratic and take into account the level of development of their industry, and that is the topic in which most Middle and Eastern European heads of state are trying to spread to colleagues from Western Europe that the starting position is simply not the same and the competent resolutions in Croatia account for it, but we are currently very good at ambitions for renewable energy sources, I think we will be able to cope with this goal from minus 55 to 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10492	Dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10493	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. There is a question that is constantly being opened, which is linking the use of European money and the rule of law. Some members believe that the mechanisms currently discussed are too weak and others are unacceptable for some other reasons. The German presidency stands in the position of a reasonable compromise. We would certainly like Croatia to at least be among those members who do not resist the idea, so I am interested in the attitude you represent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10494	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10495	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark Tarritash. The attitude is identical all the time, I believe that parliamentarians, and the general public understands these nuances of different modes of rule of law from the starting position of one of the main principles in basic contracts to articles of the contract relating to a possible breach of that principle, these are the types of these procedures, that is, art. 6, Art. 7. who have nothing to do with this report, which was recently addressed by MP Hajdukovic. So, the mechanism of the rule of law of a kind of annual review of the situation of respect for the rule of law in the Member States and the new mechanism of one initiative that was carried out at the time of that first European Parliament call in which Croatian representatives participated, the Commission in which the Vice-President for these issues was Vivan Reading, I even remember that the reporter for this topic was the father of our friend Charles Michel, Louisa Michel, and most of all Croatia is there for the rule of law respect and is not our problem. Those of us who know details read foreign newspapers remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10496	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of Mariana Petir's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. In the past week several terrorist attacks carried out by Islamic fundamentalists brutally killing teachers in Paris, assaulting and killing Catholic believers in the cathedral in Nice, assaulting the Orthodox priest in Lyon, attacks yesterday in front of the synagogue in Vienna and several other locations, and all of us of course need to worry. You mentioned that on the sidelines of the Council you also talked about a conference on the future of Europe, so I was wondering if you were saying how in time to identify these activities of those persons who, for various reasons, are directed towards radical ideology and mass murder and how to preserve our European Christian values? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10498	Thank you very much, Mr. Petyr. That's exactly what we were talking about, the truth informally because it wasn't the very point of the agenda, but there was the first single condemnation of common expression of solidarity at that moment first with France. The joint activities of all competent services, particularly intelligence services dealing with this phenomenon, the phenomenon and radicalism, Islamic radicalism, indoctrination, the self-radicalisation of a series of phenomena, which, unfortunately, sometimes have the consequences of these cases that we saw yesterday in Vienna or several of these examples in France. On the other hand, it is particularly bad that some of the statements made by the French president have even been lost in some way in translation, he tried to clarify it, but it seems to me that it has failed to communicate enough. In any case, a common comprehensive effort to suppress such activities will follow, and Croatia will contribute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10499	Thank you. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10500	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is my thanks to the Prime Minister for this presentation and I welcome this practice so that we can discuss the conclusions of these meetings. I would refer to some conclusions about climate change because it seems to me to be a list of beautiful desires without a real basis in reality because reality, at least the economic one now in this covid pandemic is very difficult, and we know that green policies cost money. This year we will have a GDP drop of at least 8%, so I'm interested in when the European industry is to remain competitive or the transition needs to be fair and socially balanced. What exactly does that mean for our country? Because it seems to me that there is a danger of a difference between the beautiful ambitions of the EU and the reality in which Croatia is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10501	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10502	Thank you very much. The issue of climate change in the green transition is the topic of global which is topic number one, the topic is also in Europe at the moment. Given this huge economic crisis of covida-19, you know that fiscal rules at EU level are being put aside at some point at this point, much more borrowing than those objectives we had before are possible. Croatia also knew during the accession negotiations when the chapter on environmental protection was negotiated from the very beginning that these are issues that cost the most and which require the most investment especially given the structure of the Croatian industry. However, when we look at this situation today, all the assessments that come from the Ministry of Economy which is also the Ministry of Energy, which includes deliberate and environmental protection, because in the past term we wanted to include both of these symbiosis to have an internal analysis, Croatia will endure the pressures and engage in goals without our court having more dramatic financial consequences for our industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10503	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10504	Thank you. For starters, I would also like to commend this practice to discuss meetings of the European Council and the political positions of the Croatian Government in HS. It is also a question that a colleague is only from a different perspective regarding the conclusions of 15 and 16 October around climate change, so the current ambition was 40% reduction by 2030 compared to the 1990s, now the European Commission is proposing 55%... we can even propose 65% if we want to be climatic until 2050, and I agree that green policies cost, but they also cost fossil energy sources and we think that green policies and opportunities for new jobs. And in this context, by looking at the rebalancing this year, the LNG terminal where we are planning to invest about 400 million kunas, we are interested in the national recovery and resilience plan that you are going to propose to the European Commission which are the key green energy projects on which you will achieve these very ambitious goals that are expected to be adopted in December.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10505	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10506	As far as rebalancing is concerned, I think that about LNG on Krk, somewhere around 337 million if I'm not mistaken like this, it seems to me at this point, and as far as the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme is concerned, so that we understand a very good concept that's what's most important to withdraw the funds is important to present reforms. So, without reforming in a particular policy, there is no prescribing in advance, let's say, on the supplies of the projects found that only someone out there in some very formal procedure will administer and squeeze and send the money, it won't happen. So what we are expected to do is one wholeness of approach, which is why all resolutions have been given the task of first identifying the reforms in the sector and then binding them to concrete projects. Since this is the exercise that the Croatian government is currently working on internally, you will allow us a few more weeks to make that clear. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] When it's ready, then we'll consult and conduct a debate here. I think even though we don't have to work here that this should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10507	Let's move on, Comrade Bencice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10508	I welcome this answer that there will be a debate in the assembly and that was one of our demands, but I have one other question. So, since you have discussed radicalisation within the EU, we are interested in whether you are formally or informally except for terrorist attacks as one final sequence of radicalisation, we are also talking about a situation in Poland where the government itself has become a function of legalising radical right-wing policies, so for example we have a declaration of a zone without LGBT persons as formerly in a Nazi German zone without Jews. It also prevents women from having abortions even in the event of irreparable foetal malformation. 10,000 Polish women these days march the streets and prepare for a general strike. My question is what is the position of the Croatian government towards politics, that policy of the Polish government, and do you think that there are enough serious violations of the rule of law and EU values that require them to freeze the possibility of using EU funds and how you will deal with it Position? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10510	There was no debate on these subjects, and as far as our position is concerned, of course we can't share the values where someone would be declared a free zone from someone else, these are the values of freedom, the values of democracy. On this side we stand on those starting points that are based on both the Croatian Constitution and regardless of the individual political party, let's say HDZ shares both the principles of democracy and all our Christian values, we respect the freedom of others. This is the key position in which we stand as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10511	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10512	Thank you. The esteemed Prime Minister of the Croatian Government in Brussels spoke on the subject of digitisation, you also said this here immediately in the introduction of what I want to interpret as something that is very important to you and has put emphasis on further or encouraging investment in digitisation, but also on the digitisation of the public administration that you spoke of as helping our citizens, but also on entrepreneurs who would make it easier to do business. But what we can see, and this will be the topic and on Thursday, is that when the budget is rebalanced, the digitalisation of the public administration will reduce by almost 60% and the information by almost 80%. So here's what I'm curious about is how you're commenting because here I personally think that it's definitely not going to help the digital transition as a member of the recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10513	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10514	Thank you very much. So the logic is that everything we can finance through European funds in the coming years, and we know in advance that the element of digitally virtually contitio synqua non for these reforms and projects is what we will try to transfer. You know that this year is really specific about the budget, about all of our current guidelines, actions. Everything that happened this year is beyond all our plans, frameworks, desires, intentions and ultimately some acquis since 2016, '17, '18. and in '19, it is few who are more unhappy than we are that we are not in a position to continue the policy of the budget surplus reduction of public debt, responsible public finances management and consolidation of Croatia as a country with an investment and credit rating which is good for the country, good for banks, good for entrepreneurs and ultimately what is most important to us for Croatian citizens. And for digitization we'll find money next year and very much so, you'll see you can participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10515	Comrade Pavić Željko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10516	Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation, you have highlighted the digitisation and development of digital society as important programmes in the Union. The Union documents refer to the European national data acquisition, to the return to Europe of data belonging to the members of the Union, to data security and to the security of communication. We also know that in order to achieve these projects and programmes there are funds from which data centres, recovery centres in case of disaster, computer meals in the members of the Union and security mechanisms would be financed, etc. The use of these funds by Croatia is extremely important for the digitisation of state services, for the development of unique information systems, as well as for the development of the IT sector in Croatia as a whole. My question is, or I would like to ask you how much total resources are available to us for these projects, information on current interruptions related to these programmes in Croatia, who are working on these projects and which bodies the Union cooperates on these projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10517	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10518	As far as future funds are concerned, we do not have a precise picture yet, there is neither Croatia nor any other member. As regards the coordination of these activities by the basis of our structure, it is about the Central State Office for a Digital Society, but complementing these activities include all other resolutions that do their part of the task, and this portfolio is most important to coordinate all activities and to increase the level of availability of digital services to Croatian citizens, better communication of all bodies of the state administration, to increase the number of e-services that are extremely good for us, our goal is to make them more than 300.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10519	Now it's my fellow Stier's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10520	Thank you, President HS. President of the Croatian Government. You mentioned the concept of strategic autonomy, I think it's a very important concept. The same concept of digital sovereignty is mentioned in the conclusions, and I think it is particularly important to mention this in the context of the debate where the amount of our membership is problematicd or often even problematicd, and only EU membership, mentioning that in today's world, national states in Europe can strengthen their sovereignty through European co-operation. If there were no European cooperation, national sovereignty would not be strengthened but would only increase dependence, dependence on global actors outside the EU. You announced, or said, that this concept will continue to be discussed through debate and joint work on the European Council, and in this respect I would like to ask you a few more concepts about how Croatia will be involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10522	Thank you very much, counsel Stier. The topic of strategic autonomy as a topic of debate on the European Council is one of the key topics that we can freely say caused by this global reset due to covida-19, covid-19 reveals the points where we are strong and the points where we are less powerful. And right here is if we go back to the question Croatia was facing seven, eight months ago, the extraordinary circumstance, the pandemic outside of all frameworks, the health threat, the banal issue of protective equipment. So, with all our efforts on the European market at that time, we couldn't find what Croatia needed, both domestically and on Europeanly. First, everyone kept the reserves for themselves, and the second we didn't have enough. Yeah, we didn't have enough good in this particular case with one big global actor, and that's China, the question where would we have all this equipment that you all have right now. Therefore, from such an example to an economy, we can freely say all moments of the 4th Industrial Revolution, the EU must make sure that it is as autonomous as no longer possible, that it is not dependent on another, that is, the purpose of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10523	Now let's go, Comrade Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10524	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, did I understand correctly that you said that an important component for the design of the EU's 5G network is important? I did. So now I'm going to read you a quote from the clock that your HZD council members have sent,... It is not Hvar, it is not Hvar island between Hvar and Split, so "there is information that when the electromagnetic radiation of certain frequencies is broadcast close to 5G devices, there is a sea of birds, and in people, especially children, there is an uncontrolled and abundant bleeding from the nose and buzzing in the ears". [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm quite sure that you didn't think in the future of the EU that it was buzzing in your ears and nosebleeding and sniffing, but it doesn't matter now, and I recommend that you tell your councilmen through the party lines to withdraw that item from the agenda, that at the next session of the city council they wouldn't have to vote either against themselves or against you, and that more SDPs have to defend you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10525	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10526	You're a respected representative of Bauk in the right direction, this with the consequences of these sniffing situations, I liked it very much, and now I'm pushing you in the right direction. As far as local levels are concerned, this isn't the first time, I thought you'd alluded to the debate that it seemed to me in the Hvar City Council... And then Bratch was late, is that it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here is my colleague Danica Baričević, so I will ask her to discuss exactly what she wanted for you, and since this concept of decentralisation is working equally between the centre and Brač, and it seems to me to Hvar as well as Zagreb, I must admit that there were no instructions of instruction and from the central level of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10527	Thank you. Now it's time for fellow Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10528	I thank the president of HS. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You mentioned investing in education and education, and we know that every country is as rich as the rich population, or that knowledge is power, who has knowledge is powerful. Is there any possibility that, in addition to this pandemic that caused the coronary virus, we can continue to invest in digitisation or building a network of schools by achieving a pedagogical standard that all students can go on one shift throughout Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10530	Yes, investment in science in education, in research will be one of the key priorities over the next ten years, we have great ambitions in this National Development Strategy document and through programmes and partnership agreements. When it comes to projects from science and research for the multiannual financial framework, it will be one of the priority components of the government that we will put into the national recovery and resilience programme. We are fully aware that without investment in science, education in young generations, competences, skills, jobs of the future, everything that we may not even be able to imagine today that new generations will eventually have to learn to do and do without it, there is no taking steps with any trend and that is one of the main priorities that we are faster and more flexible, we will be more competitive and better and better quality living in the future, I agree with you completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10531	Thank you. Now we'll congratulate our colleague Oreskovic she's the first to come out of the big hall to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10532	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister. I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question because I know you have no will or ambition to change the existing state. I am interested in how long the agreement between the major political parties in Croatia will be more powerful than the letter of the Croatian Constitution. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Versus 144. 5. In accordance with their constitutional powers, the Republic of Croatia shall be represented by the President of the State and the Government in the Council and the European Council. Therefore, the president of the country is completely excluded from the creation of foreign policy. Do you ever intend to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10533	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10534	As far as this practice is concerned, it was defined to you years ago. I don't know if you remember that the state represents on the European Council the Prime Minister, because the powers we have within what the government is doing and what the themes of the European Council are much more appropriate and logical, are wiser to be represented by the Prime Minister. As far as activities common in foreign policy are concerned, there is plenty of space in other multilateral organisations and for the participation of the president of the republic most often representing Croatia. It was as you saw in practice first of all at meetings at the summit of the North Atlantic Alliance or at the UN General Assembly. So it's a framework that's very clear, very solid, and there's not a thought here at all about changing it, nor does it make sense to change it, such as the responsibilities in Croatia for the last 20 years everything else would be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10535	Thank you. Let's move on, last replica of the esteemed colleague Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10536	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Prime Minister, you were talking about reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. Unlike that 40 percent reduction plan. Of course we're strong for it. However, I wonder if this policy is not deeply contradictory since your most unpopular minister, Ćoric, is engulfed with numerous affairs, continues to grant concessions for oil research both in the Adriatic and on land worth up to 2040.? Wouldn't it be better if we were really going towards a green sustainable recovery and that Europe is coming here to us just because we're such a country?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10537	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10538	Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll also have opportunities to talk to Minister Coric in the next period here in HS because I see you find him interesting, many lately. As far as our renewable energy plans are concerned, they are also based on our energy strategy, on where we are today, today I think we are almost 29%, better than many other Member States. As for fossil fuels and they're in use, they'll be in use with us, I don't think there's a country at this moment that doesn't play on multiple colossals, we'll have to do it ourselves until it all comes together in the end to climate neutral Europe, and when we say a super symbiosis company like a company run by our young innovator and entrepreneur Mate Rimac who has both green and digitally is dominant not only in Croatia but also in the world, until then we'll play in these other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10539	I thank the Prime Minister, we have no more replicas. Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor, fellow Milosevic, president of the European Affairs Committee? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first in line is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin, please. Just a second to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10540	I thank the esteemed Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has been boasting for a long time with big money coming from the EU to Croatia. He did it again today. On the side which Croatia will receive is not the merit of any individual but the most, and I must say unfortunately, the fact that Croatia is at the start of the EU on economic development, but also that one of the money that Croatia is allocated to, and another money that Croatia will ultimately withdraw. The adoption of the multiannual financial framework requires a triage of the Council of the European Parliament's Commission, and this triage is not going well so far, so it was even interrupted at one point. That is why I would ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for very concrete answers regarding these negotiations. In fact, it is already November and the question is whether negotiations on the multiannual financial framework will be completed by the end of the year, so much more than voting in the European Parliament, such a framework must be ratified in the national parliaments of the Member States as well? Dear President, a very clear question, please and answer, will VFO be voted by the end of the year, how realistic is this and when will we have the opportunity to start withdrawing funds from the new financial framework? But much more important than that, do we have a scenario in case it doesn't happen and VFO doesn't get adopted? I asked you in the replica, you said it wasn't about today's debate. But it is. No matter what we discuss with the European Council reports, we must discuss the consequences of what is brought on the European Council for the Republic of Croatia. I must therefore point out that VFO itself is not enough for Croatia to ultimately start to consume funds that are allocated to it. Croatia needs national strategic documents, and a key document among them is the National Development Strategy. Your Honor, Mr. President, you said that all deadlines related to the National Development Strategy were delayed because of the covid crisis. However, I will remind you, by law, of someone's decision, the Strategic Planning System Act was scheduled to send the document to the Croatian Parliament no later than March 31st. This meant that he was expected to be consulted by the interested public long before. Why am I saying that? Because these are all deadlines before the Covid crisis and the pandemic began and was declared at all. This means that at the time we began to make decisions in early March about the pandemic and how we would deal with it fatally, all deadlines for the National Development Strategy were breached. But good. I'll take it. We will also install into it a struggle or thinking about getting out of the crisis. But the deadlines you said today are not real. That's why I'm asking you to start working more seriously on the National Development Strategy. I call on you, instead of releasing a national strategy into the media, to send as soon as possible the same, as soon as possible, to consult the interested public to get concrete comments and suggestions on it this week. I hope that at least part of these proposals will be adopted because without the National Development Strategy there will be no operational programmes, and if there are no operational programmes, then the amount foreseen by the multiannual financial framework will remain only a dead letter on paper. Dear Prime Minister, let me express my satisfaction that today you have repeatedly supported the proposal to have the availability of money from EU funds tied to the assessment of the rule of law in certain Member States. It is an important initiative that we hope will affect certain countries, above all, it is about Poland and Hungary. Not to play with the fundamental values of Europe, with fundamental values of freedom and democracy. However, let me do the same as my colleague Hajdukovic did to warn you that even Croatia does not stand well there. The report on the rule of law in Europe suggests that Croatia has serious challenges on the issue of judicial independence. Weak administrative capacities that create difficulties for DSV and DOV in their work are highlighted, where they have reduced their role in the appointment of judges and state lawyers. The need to modernise the IT system for checking property cards is mentioned, and what the EU has warned you and we in HS are constantly warning you. Furthermore, it has been noted that the efforts of the special Anti-Corruption Department on the fight against corruption in Croatia have been hampered by the lack of specialised investigators and the ineffectiveness of the judicial system. In particular, the report falls into the eyes of the fact that on media freedoms, Croatia is mentioned among countries where journalists face threats of physical security, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Prime Minister, aside from the declarative judgment of some kind, and I'm not sure I've heard that declarative condemnation from you, which you will specifically take according to what is stated in the report on the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Because while we agree that the use of EU funds should be linked to whether fundamental values of freedom and democracy are respected in a particular Member State, I would really not want Croatia to be among those countries that will ultimately be sanctioned because of non-compliance with these values. Today during the current morning, we talked a lot about the Covid crisis and its consequences. And you looked back on that in your opening statement. I am pleased and welcome the agreement at EU level on the uniform collection and interpretation of data related to Covid. However, some issues remain open, and one of them is how to reconcile the ever-presented desire to introduce lockdown in certain Member States with a call for the preservation of freedom of movement and can there be any talk of the functionality of Schengen at these moments. I think it is an important question, that it is interested in many Croatian citizens, especially those who are in their work, life or in any other way referred to go, above all, to Slovenia, Austria, Italy, where it is about daily migration, but also to those who travel on a little longer migration to other Member States. I'm going to ask you a specific question about the European response to the Covid crisis and the medicine remdesivir. At EU level, in early October, a decision was taken on the joint procurement of this medicinal product, and the government tasked Dr. Markotic. However, on October 15, the World Health Organization published a report showing the ineffectiveness of this medicine, which has been reported today by many scientists around the world. Given that the government's decision to remdisivir Croatia could cost about 40 million kuna, and that at European level, of course, it is a far larger figure, I would like to know whether the Government has taken that WHO report into account and whether it will be reconsidered or at least once again assess the decision to purchase a remdesivir for 40 million kuna. I think there are a lot of other ways in which this money could be spent in strengthening the health system instead of getting a cure for which the WHO report shows that it is being asked. In your opening presentation, you spoke about the availability of the vaccine and this is extremely important and it is important that Croatia is involved. However, since we know that the vaccine will not be available at the same time in the amount necessary to protect all citizens and citizens of this country, I would like to know if a plan of availability and order of healing for the Republic of Croatia has been developed. I'm gonna stop here, and I'm gonna end up with one more question. We've got Brexit in front of us. There is a possibility of Brexit without any plan, contract or agreement. Whether the government has made scenarios that will reduce the impact but the Brexita deal on the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10541	Let's move on. Please just delete the pay phone first. The second in line is the House Movement Representatives Club, a colleague of Bartulica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10542	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, here, it is good that today in this House we can discuss decisions and conclusions of the Brussels meetings at European level, I think we should make an effort to continuously sensitize the Croatian public, the Croatian public on these topics and the fact that we are part of a wider community and these decisions that are made far from Zagreb certainly have implications for us, for our citizens, and that is why this is good practice. The Coronavirus is clear, dominates the agenda, and the Member States manage as best they know, and so do we. The pandemic that was created, I will remind you again, in communist China has caused such a crisis that it is not yet clear how long it will last and how it will end. However, we know that Croatia will have a GDP decline of over 8% this year in that we will also have a deficit projected by around 30 billion kuna. I will repeat that years of inaction, non-implementation of structural reforms and so on come now for collection and that the already vulnerable Croatian economy is unfortunately becoming even more vulnerable. And since we don't know how this pandemic is going to develop, we see now, hopefully, the peak of this crisis, but it still seems, when we read this report, that some of the plans presented at European level are about climate change and the Green Deal list of beautiful desires without a real basis in reality. Why am I saying that? Because reality, at least it's economical is now very dreary, difficult, and we know that green policies cost and require great isolation and new, respect for new regulation by the real economy. At the same time, however, the report mentions that in this process of achieving these ambitions, that industry, including ours, should remain competitive and quote, transition must be fair and socially balanced. That sounds nice, but there's a question of how to do it. It seems to me that these are ordinary phrases used in this European space, so I am interested in what this means specifically today-to-morrow for Croatia. I have warned in the replica of the danger of the gaps between our priorities in Croatia, which are primarily economic nature and what is occupying European elites elsewhere, so they are not, the realities across Europe are very different and we must constantly highlight it. It also seems that EU leaders are quite separate from the reality of ordinary people and that their conclusions are not really too much of a public interest. I was able to study it firsthand when I followed former Prime Minister Oreshkovic to these meetings. They had long sessions about Brexit then, what to do under these new circumstances, dramatic circumstances, so I could talk to some people who, as a supporter of those leaders and prime ministers in Brussels. And I got the impression that simply some of the topics of ticklishness wanted to avoid, even in private conversations and that caused concern, why? Because what we see these days in European cities shocks us, again, unfortunately. What was recently in France, Nice, but also last night in downtown Vienna, indeed, must move us to think more deeply about the meaning of this entire European project and what it means for ordinary citizens. The question arises as to what European leaders can do in the fight against Islamic terrorism, except express their condolences to innocent victims and these convictions. Is there really a firm will to deal with this ideology? Because it hasn't existed just since yesterday. That's big questions. However, something would also briefly refer to this financial framework, which is foreseen by 2027 and the resources available to Croatia. In fact, even if we withdraw every euro from what is available, it can be between 5% and 7% of Croatia's total GDP at an annual level. So we will continue to create much more within Croatia, or we will manage what we create here, and possibly up to 7% of the total GDP can come from the EU funds and therefore it is important to repeat, repeat structural reforms that have not been implemented. I don't think it's a good thing we don't have any other way out of this situation than to keep public spending growing. The number of inhabitants is falling, and we see that the expenditures of the state budget are increasing every year. The question arises, when will this practice stop? So this issue of the rest of the Croatian budget how to manage it is in our focus. The resources from European funds are welcome, but we need to take serious account of the consequences of inaction and I will repeat again the fact that the structure of the budget has been more or less the same for years. So the health system and payments to HZZO amount to around 27 billion kuna, and it turns out again that it's not enough. We now have an unprecedented crisis where this whole system is where, I'll repeat the state has a monopoly collapsing. We believe that every monopoly and this one of HZZO is not good and ends up often in irrational management, abuse and corruption, unfortunately. I think it must now be a priority issue, not only to highlight the funds from the European funds at our disposal, not only to put hope in Brussels but to finally go into serious reforms because this may be an opportunity for it. Finally, I would just like to say a few words about the rule of law, it is a very important topic, but I will remind you once again that the report on the work of the judiciary in Croatia and on the work of the DORH has been delayed for a long time and has not been put on the agenda. We failed to discuss this before this two week break, now it is on hold again, we hope it will come as soon as possible but we see it as a bad signal because it is interested in Croatian citizens. We have many reasons for this and for concern about the situation in the judiciary, and somehow the ruling majority always find ways and reasons to delay these important topics. I don't think that's good. It is good that today we are discussing this issue, and let us be consistent and truly respecting the role of this Parliament, I think that all Croatian citizens can benefit from it, and these abuses are certainly not in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10543	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the IP, Smart and Glass Club, Mrs. Mr. Mr. Taritash will speak first, and then Mrs. Oreshkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10544	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Prime Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. Both the party GLAS and the Club of Representatives of the Party with Name and Surname, Smart and GLAS and myself personally and people with whom I share political business and attitudes are part of that part of Croatian society which is strongly pro-European. Beyond all phrases, this means that from the very beginning of Croatia's European path to today, we believe that the Union is a political community that should be an example to all of us how to develop relations between countries, societies and peoples. It is also important that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the Union it is certainly the most important political achievement of our 30-year political history as an independent state. It is important and we are pleased that Croatia is sitting around the same table as other European nations and that we are taking part in the decision-making process. At any time, especially at a time of health, political, economic and all the other challenges we are facing at this time, and I am not just thinking about covid. Both the EU and Croatia face other problems and challenges that many of them are likely to last longer than the crown and the crown of the crisis. From super ambitious plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, green transitions, digital transformations to political and geopolitical challenges around the world that are kind of reflected in Croatia alone, especially in Southeast Europe and the countries with which we border. Many of them are not members of the Union, and some of them also have serious problems with the functioning of the institutions of the state. One of the things we would like to know more about is how do Croatia and you, as its representative, participate in discussions on EU external relations issues? The situation around us is complicated to a higher level, from Turkey to the Middle East to Africa. The relationship between the EU and Russia on one hand and relations and political opportunities in the US on the other hand, China, is all serious issues that are not only out there far away but are directly reflected in Croatia and our immediate neighbourhood. The issue of political change in Montenegro, whose recent clear path is for NATO members and future EU members, now does not seem so clear. Permanent political instability and the blocking of BiH as well as our relations with Serbia. These are all topics directly related to Croatia, and global relations between the EU, the United States, Russia and China are also at the cutting point. We want to know more about our role in the movement of European policies and the answer to these topics. It is our area of interest and it would be good to participate more, stronger and more proactively than what comes to all of us as information. Dear Prime Minister, yet what concerns us most no matter what happens to all the big ideas, well-intentioned plans and the serious goals set out in this and all the other such reports when you return from Brussels to Zagreb? I'm going to look very little at the Covid-19 issue today, even though it's a temporary dominant topic. I wonder what's wrong with the Croatian and Green Plan? What about the digital transformation of Croatia? What about industrial policy? The objectives and conclusions of the European Council that you inform us about cannot remain just a letter on paper, and certainly must not remain reserved for other countries, some other member states, some other people. We support them, but more than that we want to see them come true in Croatia. I ask you personally who you are involved in their adoption and the Croatian Prime Minister to conduct themselves as they belong. The National Competitiveness Council warns that Croatia is the last in the EU to compete digitally and that it is particularly poorly prepared for the future. The low-carbon development strategy, which should be the basis for plans to use renewable energy sources, has still not seen the light of day in the assembly. In line with the conclusions of the European Council, the European Commission recommends that we put investment in renewable energy and digital technologies in recovery plans financed by European money. Where are we with this respected Prime Minister? The fact that we are an active and proactive member of the EU and that you represent us in the council is not at all controversial. However, we wouldn't mind if you decided to take the initiative on certain topics. But the initiative that would really make us happy is the one on the home court, which is too weak. A lot of too weak Croatia will become an EU member in the right sense, and you will, in the right sense, become the European prime minister only when our policies and programmes become truly European and in shape and content, but most importantly, in order to achieve them, which, as a better life, we can feel all of us living in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10545	Ma'am. Oreshkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10546	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. You all know I'm 5. held at the head of an institution of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Do you know how many provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests are in full breach of practice? How immaculate, useless, how much of the law's provision is that I'm going to dare say a word that's even harmful? Very much so. However, I consistently respected and implemented those provisions because this requires a fundamental principle of legality. It's the same thing with our constitution. I am pleased that today the Prime Minister has confessed and confirmed that he is aware of the fact that in Art. The 144th century 5 writes something that we as a state do not respect in practice. And what message do we send to our citizens? That the values of the Croatian constitution are a dead letter on paper. And why would one provision of the constitution or any other law be worth less than any other if for the authorities, if we do not have clear rules for the holders of the authorities, how can we control them? If our constitution stipulates that foreign policy is co-creation then let's co-create it, let's create a clear, unequivocal legal framework under which we will be able to control whether the elected power is exercised by what is expected of it. If we do not do so with what right will we ask the citizens to comply with any provision that this legislative body or any other design? How will we ask, for example, to wear masks if we allow our Prime Minister or the President of the State to behave in foreign political matters however they please because it is simply easier? The rule of law cannot rest on the principle that we will behave in accordance with what is more appropriate to the political agreement reached between the two major political parties. I'm not saying that the situation was personally committed by Andrej Plenkovic. I'll be so honest, I'll say, responsibility is divided. And I understand that most Croatian citizens report on, on the work of the EU Council, something that is foreign to them and far away, that their issues of constitutionality and legality are abstract, but they must not be abstract to the representatives of HS, we are the ones who should not be the same. If our current constitutional framework is not good enough let's change it, but we cannot simply act as it suits us and consider it fair to Croatian citizens whom we expect to respect what this HS tells them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10547	Thank you, too. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak before the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10548	Dear Vice President HS, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad you're here. I asked you a simple question in the replica, I'm glad you answered anyway. I will place it here again, so you can have the opportunity to explain even more explicitly to Croatian citizens what our country's new obligations to the EU are? So the question was how much new membership there is, how much more Croatia will pay the EU, or will pay in the next period. You said 100 million, I corrected you 155 as much as Minister Maric told me, and I wish you had the courage to say it from this pay phone, or that you were in one transparent way and in the context of today's presentation and in the context of some exposure before or anywhere in the media, here yesterday you were on HT, so you could say that fact. I do not want to reduce your efforts here and reduce the importance of your work both in the European Council and in general in the EU bodies, and I believe that these 28 billion as far as we are going to get, I hope, it is not small money and I think it is a success, but I believe that you as responsible Prime Minister, and I think you are responsible, that you could say this part of the same commitment and that you can, at least you are able to communicate with the citizens and say ok, potentially we will get because we haven't received yet, but we will still have to pay a bigger membership fee. When we get you out of the opposition to clean up, then it's a little bit worse, I'd like you to be a little braver in the future if you put those facts out here. But I don't want to diminish your efforts and that money we're going to get and what's our last straw of salvation on our economy. However, here I must say that the matter is not black white because we will get proportionally more money, but it belongs to us, because the Croatians do not have, we exclusively buy German products, Belgian, Italian, whatever, but they are not Croatian products. And the Croatian labour force today works in German, Italian, Belgian factories and when we take that into account then we actually got a little bit. And I think we deserve a lot more. Comrade Stier commended you here, I think the matter is not very black white and that Croatia does not get any money gratis and what we need to know that and that money not only through this, these contributions not only to the state budget as you said, but the EU budget is not a state, we will have to return in some other ways and we will have to pay additionally for everyone to pay back this money. I don't know if any new pan-European taxes are going to be introduced about it either today or the last time, but here's something I'd like to hear about and whether there's some kind of model that doesn't burden the state budgets, but that some new tax still provides that money. When I talked about it last time, that's what your colleague Macron talked about in France multiple times to tax him, he said it, not me, Macron, he was talking about taxing these big inter-supervisors like Google, like youtube, like Facebook, like Twitter. I'm mostly media left-wing, but yours are actually left-wing media trying to make fun of me so that I can tax the Internet, I wouldn't tax, I'd free everyone from taxes as much as possible. However, the fact is that the Croatian state has to impose new taxes on its citizens to find this money, and then I am for the EU to take that money if there is an instrument for those who have it, and these internal providers have it, Google has it, Facebook has it, etc. and mostly work without any giving in our space. Here I would refer to another one, here is my colleague Bencic mentioned Poland and now you are in a very interesting situation, my colleague Bencic is one confident and credible leftist, and I will say to myself so immodestly on this side a right-wing conservative is convinced, and I will even tell the credible let no one object to what I said, and now we have you here who I don't know what part of spectrum you would put you in. She said so nicely I'm about those demonstrations in Poland, the women asking to legalize the abortion. I will make it clear that I am the opposite and I am here to support the Polish government and I am glad that this law has been passed and let the Polish government endure and let the Poles defend their churches under the attacks of radical lefties fellow Bencic, but now I have to call you here for a little while, now you have again taken one position neither here nor there. Where are you? You said at one point we Democrats, but I'm trying you here a little bit, ha ha ha and educate him, not to be a Christian say I'm a Christian Democrats as a colleague or a Christian as you say but here in this home bring some law as the Poles have brought. Here's what you think, here's a question for you, what do you think of this law that protects life in Poland? So let's see if you're closer to Mrs. Bencic's attitude or maybe my attitude. I would bet that you are closer to my colleague Bencic in your interior, but since you are in one party who calls yourself Christian, you must not say it to Christian Democrats or be a character, so tell me that really this HDZ is fully moved into the SDP spectrum and take the only votes, so also colleague Tomašević will be in trouble and colleague Mrak Taritas not in this way competition and if you fail in the policy of the company for left-wing Andrej Plenkovic, not for the sake of right-wing and conservativeism of Hrvoje Zekanovic, I am not competition Mrs Benčić, Tomaševic and Taritaš but your competition in your part of the political spectrum is such HDZ. And that's what needs to be stressed, that's what you have to say. And one more thing here, the crown crisis was mentioned, the battle against the crown was mentioned. Last time you were in the assembly, you put something like that down like a crown.../incomprehensible/... against the crown, that at one point I took a picture with my friend General Glasnović's hero and we toasted with the crown beer and told the crown against the crown, but the one who toasted with General Glasnović, Zekanovic was the first in this Croatian Parliament, the first, on February 5th of this year, to talk about the crown crisis. And I had to collect my courage, and then they made fun of me from this part of the assembly, more than they did of this meaning from HDZ, making fun of me later in the hallway and laughing at me while I was saying that we were facing the greatest danger in the history of the Croatian State since the Homeland War. It was February 5th, you have on my YouTube channel look at the 5th of February where I was talking, and you didn't know if it was Beroš or Kujundzic at the time, there you were in the turmoil. And here's one screwy, square-headed, credentials, I got all the teeth right-handed he's here before the advanced HDZ warned of the dangers that threaten us. And I was talking here and I was showing masks and I was saying if we had enough equipment, if we had enough respirators, but I'm not even going to tell you right now that you with the crown crisis are mismanaging, managing just as good or just as bad as the rest of Europe. Here I wouldn't even be criticizing you because this is a specific situation and it happened to you and it's not your fault that it happened to you. But I'm going to congratulate you on one other thing, which is that you've managed to make the most of that crown crisis, that you've managed to use it fantastically, that we've entered lockdown after the HDZ election, that on that wave of victory over the crown we went to elections and that's where you got the votes. But it's legitimate, actually your position allows. So, I'm not criticizing you for the management of the coronary crisis because it's a severe crisis, and I'll congratulate you on taking advantage of that crisis in the best way possible for you and your party. So, honourable Prime Minister here for telling you here from this pay phone, don't always take this as a provocation, which way I'll provoke you and it's a characteristic of the opposition, but which way do you take these criticisms as well-intentioned. And if there is a new obligation for Croatia, according to my account, a billion and 162 million kuna, if the euro rate is 7.5, then I think that you should be the responsible prime minister, and I think you are the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, that you could have and should have, without me asking you to say it from this pay phone, then you would be even more credible or you would have been a bigger guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10549	Now it is Mr. Ante Kujundzic who will speak in front of the Independent Lists Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10550	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Listening to today's debate, I've gotten the feeling that everything is more or less ideal for us and that there's really no fear for us. Based on the report, I conclude that there are two Croatian diametrically opposites, so it is a paper ideal Croatia and the real Croatia in real time that is too far from that paper. I have no political need not to commend what is good, so congratulations on the new envelope and the means that we can withdraw or, for example, on measures to recover the economy and all the good that this government has done. But I also don't think it's a good idea to have a schizophrenic political-social look that actually makes bad moves and bad conditions look through some kind of pink glasses with the difference that verbally today, now and here, might be easier, but it can't be used by an alibi of a story that some previous government is guilty of because it didn't put together a SDP. And in the end, it's totally irrelevant, you'll all agree, it's good while we're trying and we're looking for better solutions. I have a vague connection in the text of the notice between institutions and citizens and strengthening the same, more precisely, vague and invisible strengthening of these links in a situation where citizens are most often ping ping pong balls that institutions transfer from office to office, perhaps it is actually walking from door to door of institutions an opportunity to get to know each other better because the efficiency of them has long been questionable at least. Most often it is necessary to take one day of vacation or a day off to extract the most banal document. The reduction of inequality in society and the attempt of the same as the next thesis set out in the report in this country resulted in an even greater inequality in which the final citizen who produces and creates became the target of financial devastation to impose so that normal elite policy could feast and enjoy the benefits of other people's work, and the villains would say that the political motto of the individual from this and the previous executive authorities could change from that of my homeland to my property. A common policy on migrants and an open Europe of one Samaritan Europe as a goal of the report resulted in an increase in the number of rapes and murders both priests and citizens, both in the streets and in churches by those we open to Europe. Praise is worthy to bear witness with your example of openness, humanity, well - intentionedness, and all other values have grown on the basis of Christian European civilization. But in all of that, we have to set clear rules of play for everything that's allowed and what's not. We can't be hypocrites like we can't lose sight of the urge that makes certain people come to Europe and that's why these impulses are actually produced, before it's really too late. Happiness and God, because of economic status, we're just a transit country where migrants don't even see their haven. If we want to preserve Europe more than ever, we need to return to the roots and to our values. A globalist Europe, Europe without value cannot survive in conflict with Islam, but it cannot even respond to modern challenges. Sasoli also warned in his performance, which in the category stand up comedy, about the importance of sanctioning electoral fraud against democratic rights of citizens in Belarus without anyone touching the stolen referendums in Croatia and the issues of democracy itself in Croatia. Also, the European Council has condemned chemical weapons in a muscular way and I agree that even more muscle should condemn any form of violence and the use of weapons. But I wonder when and when the European Council will strongly protect the habitat of the old continent, Christian values and install objective morals in its postulates? There is no letter of that in the report, although it has long been clear to all how the emperor is actually naked. In the context of building a partnership relationship between the private sector and the public sector that the report states, Croatia is reduced to the hard-earning of the private sector, and the debauchery of the accumulated public sector whose basic modus operands are taken care of. In the context of strengthening trade policy and the instruments of the liberal market, we believe that a prerequisite is necessary to protect and strengthen domestic production, and only then to turn to imports, which is not the case in Croatia. Investment in digitisation and the emphasis on delivering national plans for the introduction of the 5G network, as highlighted in the 5G action plan, is certainly what we need for the future. But the question is, who will welcome this future, since we do not have enough research on human health? Discuss health care and raise quality in all aspects of the nation's health, and not only do we not have medicines to pay for but we don't have the basics, we don't have a quality national strategy to fight both cancers and all other diseases. I don't think it's easy for the Prime Minister, but I'm aware that you need to make some moves and be responsible for them. I'm also aware that you're the one who's guilty of other people's mistakes. But I am sad because nowhere in the report is the importance of us and our Croatia, nor you except in the context of how you welcome Angela Merkel's intentions or you agree and support the views of others, which is logical and expected. I think we can do much, much better with you in the lead. To begin with, it would be good for you to keep the guard you have in Croatia when you are out of Croatia, and in a political sense we have stayed where we are, the periphery of Europe whose political value, historical and cultural value ends on Bregana. Everything that has been our unsustainable strength in history, the values we have held to and which make the key to action in all segments of human life, which is why we have long since escaped from our lives the people themselves. Whatever anyone thinks when you take values and the spirit of the people remains just a machine that keeps moving until at some point it stops somewhere on the road. And what does Europe look like today? It looks like an old man almost on appliances, both valuable and economic, and political. She's been tortured, extinct demographically, economically and politically. Western civilization is generally extinct because it is itself in the name of God's progress due to a globalistic hedonistic policy that has given up its Christian values etched into its foundation, tripped and lost itself in political correctness and Brussels bureaucracy, which, I fear, will result in the biological disappearance of the European Western man. Because of such policy, rotten political correctness, today European leaders prefer to remain silent or try to step up with global correctness rather than clearly articulate what is really happening in Paris and yesterday in Vienna. In order for the people to survive, they need to know where they come from and on what basis they have grown. Because of these foundations, he needs to offer help as a Samaritan, but he must not forget where he is going. To keep your identity means to keep your source. So we are a nation that has emerged in Christian values, and they are the core of our tree. And, of course, that we want a democratic society and economic freedom that will allow everyone a more decent life and freedom, but a freedom that does not endanger the freedom and life of another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10551	Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Kujundzic insults and disrespects other MPs. Mr. Kujundzic, 100 times the lie won't become true, I've told you many times, both to you and to the representatives of MOST. No one stole the referendum. HS decided that no assumptions for the implementation of the referendum were met, the Constitutional Court confirmed the same decision by HS. However, representatives of the citizens' initiative were invited to come and check that those signatures were delivered and no one came. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I see this as another attempt at your empty policy. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Bačić]] to try to justify your ignorance, inability and responsibility to transfer to others. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10553	Thanks, you didn't say anything, you didn't say the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10554	Yes, I said 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10555	Well, then, I apologize, then. ... Yes, but it was a replica. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10556	I said art. 238, that he insults and demeans other MPs. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10557	But it was a replica, no, more or less?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10558	100 times the same thing. Sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10559	Thank you very much. We should move on, Mr. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, club of HDZ representatives. I'm sorry, I didn't hear this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10560	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. A little more than a year ago, I was standing in the same place and on the same subject, so the report by the Prime Minister from the European Council. On behalf of our club, I started with the words "the past nine months have been a tumultuous, tense and interesting one". I would also like the 9 months past in 2020 to be as bitter and tense as it was in 2019, but unfortunately given the covid and pandemic, those words “tense”, “burno” and so on have a whole new dimension in this year. Of course, not only for the crown of the virus but also for the consequences of which the coronary virus leaves both on the economy and on societies, and on political systems. If you allow me this introduction just one personal note, it is my impression that these past few months, both for Croatia and for many countries, and the entire Union such as one business dictionary is brutal and a free sum of analysis or you analyze our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and dangers. Of course, above all, it will depend on how we recognize each other and what we will use in the coming months and years. And now on this report, which is divided by topics and I will subject these topics to both meetings, so this extraordinary and regular 1 and 2 October and 15 and 16 October respectively, hence the single market, industrial policy, digitisation separately on the multiannual financial framework, external relations and climate change. As regards the Covida, the European Council has assessed the current situation very worryingly called on the Commission to strengthen coordination and work on the development of vaccine distribution. I think this vaccine is pretty close and now it's not just building capacity for that vaccination that's coming in the next few months for a maximum of 6 months, but it's expected to be at affordable prices, price-accessible vaccines, so. Progress in overall EU-wide coordination in combating pandemics, including various recommendations on coordinated access to free movement restrictions, quarantine regulations, cross-border monitoring of contacts, testing strategies, etc. As far as the single market for industrial policy is concerned, it is clear that the Covid-19 pandemic will have strong and lasting consequences for our European and global economy. The European Council reached agreement in July on an unmarked recovery package, so we expect that digital transformation and green transition on the one hand, but the single market encourages recovery, economic growth continues to promote cohesion and convergence, this last one is special to us. It also provides, requires clear rules for economic operators and supports innovation, investment in education and training. It is also necessary to balance freedom of trade, protection against unfair practices and address the effects of violations of foreign subsidies on the single market. So read in parentheses above all China and the impact of the Chinese economy and their exporters on the European one. The Council gives particular importance to European industrial policy. It asks the Commission to establish strategic dependence and proposes measures to reduce dependence on supply diversification, strategic stockpiles, promotion of production and investment in the EU. I will stress here what is relevant to medium and small entrepreneurs, as I always stress, so by ensuring equal conditions of the regulatory framework for state support that is appropriate, innovation and facilitates the inclusion of medium and small entrepreneurs above all else. When it comes to digitization, everyone is clear, we are all more or less a week, if not daily on a variety of zoom, Webex and other applications. Thus, this pandemic stressed the need for accelerated digital transition to strengthen economic recovery, technological sovereignty and global competitiveness and facilitate green transition and create new jobs within these new technologies. The European Council expects the Commission to present a comprehensive digital compass called the so-called Digital Commission by March 2021. which will show the goals of digitisation by 2030. The EU wants to remain open to all companies that respect European rules and standards, but also ensure digital sovereignty through the construction of a single digital market. This is also about cloud services and so on. European digital, European digital identification. At least 30% of the funds of the recovery and resilience mechanism will be available for digital transition, certainly for medium and small entrepreneurs. In addition to funding from the multiannual financial framework, the promotion of new digital technologies and platforms, including blockchain, artificial intelligence technologies, etc. should be achieved. In short, the multiannual financial framework therefore continues to seek the possibility of agreement between the council and the European Parliament. As you know, the European Parliament has requested additional funds, i.e. Money for individual programmes, for the time being, the council is not quite certain that it can commit, but talks are under way. In this respect, support for the Prime Minister in asking for the agreement to be reached as soon as possible, first of all, so that what has already been agreed begins to be implemented and various different programmes and funding that are important for the rapid recovery, first of all, in economic terms. And here I would like to emphasise one more thing, so we are constantly talking about 22 billion Euros which, under quotes, are, of course, elected or agreed for Croatia in the next 4 and 7 years, but in fact, the potential of those 22 billion for Croatia is much greater. In a conversation with people who deal exclusively with macroeconomics, so they look from, from the height of our vast economy, we're actually talking about the potential of EUR 50 to 60 billion for Croatia. That's more than a one-year GDP. When we put it not only, first of all, if you want this in the context of the private sector, then we see that this potential is not only for a faster recovery, but actually for catching up with many who have moved away in front of us over the past two decades, it's really important. As for external relations, briefly Turkey, the council expressed full solidarity with Greece and Cyprus whose sovereignty and rights must respect and urged Turkey to co-operate, peaceful dialogue and to refrain from unilateral actions. Turkey is also expected to stop illegal activities against Greece and Cyprus, and in fact a message has been sent that in this sense a positive development of relations between Turkey and the EU could be repeated in some way, he says to me in a saying that modernising.../incomprehensible/... customs union and facilitating trade, etc., but on the other hand a little more shy reference is made to sanctions against Turkey in the event of opposite action. As regards China, the European Council stresses the need to balance economic relations in order to complete negotiations on the agreement and investment between China and the Union by the end of 2020 to address the issues of symmetry of market access and to achieve equal conditions, equal conditions. It called on China to meet its commitments towards removing barriers, access to the market and negotiations on industrial subsidies in the WTO. Here's a note that I've been active for 10 years and personally competed not to exactly fight Chinese companies across the EU, discuss re-industrialisation and hundreds of billions of our taxpayers across Europe are pumping into the re-industrious story, and at the same time not solve these issues that I've been talking about, with China, will give little effect. So we're talking about a market where people sleep in factories six, about seven days a week. Labour laws do not exist, trade unions do not exist, the last thing I remember, which is 18%, and I think that even today 18% of the Chinese government's direct subsidy to every finished product that China makes in the EU. 18% cash on the export invoice. It's hard to reach. About Belarus and Armenia and Azerbaijan has already been said enough, I would say just one more thing about Brexit in these minutes, therefore, it is certainly perhaps the most urgent issue at present when we talk about these external relations because at present it is Great Britain, the transitional period, as you know, expires at the end of this year, 31.12. There is still no agreement, however, which is problematic here, and that is that if it is not agreed by the end, then it will certainly not help in the rapid recovery and exit from the EU recession. It seems to us that we are far from that Great Britain economically, however, we are not, given our key economic partners within the EU have a significant trade exchange with the EU. And in the end, here, half a minute. Climate change. If the EU wants to become truly climaticly neutral by 2050 in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, it is necessary to increase engagement for the coming decade and update our energy and climate policies. Here I'm just going to say that there are opportunities here even though it seems like a few times that, even our entrepreneurs, that there is no opportunity, there is a lot of opportunities, and there will be a lot of opportunities in this sense for transition and for our companies. Here, thank you. HDZ Club to Support Of course the report. [[Thank you, too. Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10561	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10562	Thank you very much. A fellow Milosevic has been injured by an article. 238, because it simply deserves the award for the best speech to its leader, and for forgetting to say what his colleague Bacic said, that you have thrown a referendum of 400 thousand signatures on the Electoral Law under your feet. So I expect another time to be a little less of a lukewarm speech to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic because this is really for the anals and it's a great honor for you to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10563	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Bull, by two basics, you've actually injured the Rules of Procedure. I won't give you a warning because I just got here, and I'll be gone soon, so, but it's not like you didn't deserve it. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirjana Petir,... Sandra Bencic now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic, I'm sorry, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10564	All right, Vice President. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Prime Minister. I will dedicate this speech to this and continue with what Mr. Milosevic's predecessor was saying, but I will try to be a little more concrete about what Croatia actually gets as an opportunity through the recovery and resilience mechanism and what this mechanism is, that is, what our recovery and resilience plan should contain. I will, unlike the predecessors who gave climate change 30 seconds of their speech, give them a large majority because we believe that facing climate change and green transition is an absolute priority, not only for Croatia, but for all EU member states, but also globally, but also for the reason that we see a great opportunity to transform the economy of Croatia, but also for the whole of our society. I will also say that what Mr Milosevic has ended up with, which is that we need to update energy policies and renewable policies to achieve climate neutrality for 2050, the answer is actually much simpler. We need to stop funding the exploitation of fossil fuels and the use of fossil fuels, and that's what we want to see in the recovery plan and resilience. What are these alternatives that we are beginning to develop today to (a) be energy independent and (b) to really start from 2030, in 2030 being actually a low-carbon economy, and by 2050 post-carbon economy. Our early group inside the platform We can already, for some, let two months work actively on making a proposal for measures for the recovery plan. Why? Because we expected to have him by the middle of the 10th month. Unfortunately, this has not happened, I hope that the work on the agenda will be accelerated, and we are pleased and glad that today the prime minister has promised to discuss the plan in the Assembly, because we believe that this plan is one of the key development instruments for the next long term, although it is only until '24. until the end of '24. Contracting, we have to see it as part of the whole package for the next 10 years. So the first thing we'd like to do is when we plan, when measures and projects are planned, within this plan that we actually view it as an instrument for the realization of our green plan in the first phase and then through the ESI funds, through European structural, investment in the second phase. What exactly does that mean for us? This means that in the first phase, we need to finance as many of those economic branches that can give us outputs, any products, any services that we need to use for 10 years to move to a post-carbon, or low-carbon economy. This specifically means that we are asking for the start of a recovery plan now to finance more significant investments in technology, for example, for the solarisation of Croatia, the technology for increasing energy efficiency, I will give some concrete examples of what we think should look like. We want to stress that for those who are not aware that the recovery fund mechanism is short-term and that it is one-time, so it is not an integral part of the regular financial perspective that we have, it is extraordinary, in a way. The important thing is that by the end of 2022, we're actually going to have to contract most of the projects by then. This is an extremely large challenge, and all those who have worked on EU funds should know that they should actually now have strategic projects in preparation for the actual documentation to be completed by then. Furthermore, what we are also looking for is that if we want a real turn towards a green-resistant economy, a resilient society with decent working conditions and a reduction of inequality and poverty, we cannot, although formally we must not only commit to the one-year cycle of the European semester, but we must also observe this as part of our 10-year development strategy, so development by 2030. Now, what we think all the projects that are going to be financed from this recovery programme are that as a criterion, you have to make sure that each of them has to contribute to a minimum of 2 out of 3 goals. The first is a green transformation or transition to a post-carbon economy that corresponds to the European climate neutrality objective. The second is to improve working conditions and workers who again meet the objective of a fair transition which is also apostrophe in the European Green Plan. And thirdly, the promotion of technology and digitisation that responds to the goal of digitization. So, as a green, green-left option, we ask that minimum 50% of projects and programmes must directly contribute to the objective of climate neutrality, i.e. reducing greenhouse emissions and an additional 10% of biodiversity conservation programme projects. We've divided the measures we're proposing into three parts. The first are the green, green, green, or green transformation measures, the second concerns digitisation and the third concerns social, social and fair transitions. One of the key measures we are looking for to enter, the recovery and resilience plan is the solarisation of Croatia. So we are asking that at this stage we finance distributed electricity production, the establishment of energy cooperatives and that, in particular now, we start creating technology for the solarisation of Croatia. That is precisely what the Prime Minister said earlier today, he mentioned Mr. Roman. This means that we should now have not a tender for the grant of the fastest finger, but a strategic project in which we will include the FER,... Ruđer Boskovic and technology companies such as Rome for the development and improvement of battery systems which are a key component in the development of sustainable, renewable energy sources. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the targeted projects we're planning now, not the competition again, on principle, the fastest finger. In addition to research and development, we ask that directly invest in those companies that have the potential to produce components for renewable energy sources, and here we believe that some of our companies that are either ahead of failure or, in fact, have to be saved or given them some incentive, and have knowledge and abilities, that they should now be included and transformed to start producing what will actually be done in the next 10 to 20 years. Look. It's the same thing with, for example, increasing energy efficiency. So, if we are looking for a massive energy restoration of facades and a thermal insulation of the entire existing housing fund, then we should now finance our construction sector through this recovery programme, but also a component of research and development in the development of new materials and then produce these materials in order to buy again through the European Structural Investment Funds their products for, for energy recovery and thermal insulation. So connect the cycle at the level, in the first phase of research and development and fostering those economic operators that can produce components that are important to us for the green transition. In the second phase when we get a new envelope we regularly finance, so buying our own products and services and we really think that that way we get the maximum effect and what my predecessor was talking about before me, so that those 22 billion are not 22 billion, then they could really have a big multiplier, multiplier factor. One of the key things that we must not forget in the recovery plan and resilience is strengthening social resilience. We now see in this covid crisis how much, how much covid the crisis is, but also the earthquake literally disintegrated and destroyed the facades of our system. We see how difficult it is to maintain a health system within, within this pandemic, and how in fact we are insufferable as an economy because we are literally not producing anything for what are social needs and what are needs, for example, for the health sector. So, when strengthening social resilience in the first place, we need now the intervention measures to help the most vulnerable groups, we also need investments in modernising and strengthening public health, social protection systems, education, public administrations and also local communities. So when we talk about it, we need a long-term program again at 10. where we're looking at what we're funding right now in the first stage where we're mitigating actually the impact of the covid crisis, and in the second phase, then we're funding a leap towards some kind of developmental, developmental component because we need to be aware that the first one is now 4g. We will actually mitigate what has been done to us as damage because of the covid, and in Zagreb and because of the earthquake. We would love to, so we would also hand over these measures to the government, hoping to adopt them. We're also hoping to very nearly here to have on the bench [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]] Recovery and resistance. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10565	Thank you. Now I'm setting a 10-minute break for the departments to freshen up the council. Nothing to you, all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10566	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we go with this point and we move on to an individual debate, the first reported by a respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased with my colleagues and colleagues, first of all, that the National Development Strategy is not some mythic being but that it exists, and I hope that we will soon see it in this home, that we will be able to discuss it because it is something that will determine our future in this financial period, or the way we will be able to withdraw and spend money. But what worries is that the National Development Strategy was not yet in the assembly, that it was neither debated nor voted, and I will remind the prime minister that by mid-October we will have a strategy. Here's the beginning of November, our time is running out. Following the adoption of the strategies, the operational, operational programming process should also be carried out so that they can withdraw money from the EU at all. All that takes time. Our deadline is April 1st next year, so we don't have much time. I am sorry that the prime minister here is not that I can tell him how brave a man is when so determined and without a place of doubt he claims that Croatia will not be cut off for the EU money in light of the rule of law. I'm not enjoying myself being a bad prophet, but I'm afraid the Prime Minister will regret these words very much. I'm not so sure that we have a fast and efficient judiciary, that we have an effective and comprehensive system of fighting corruption, namely we don't even have a strategy to fight corruption in the next period that the minister of the administration has promised again, but we haven't seen it yet. We don't even have completely free media that operate without outside coercion, threats, pressures, etc. So these are all important elements for the rule of law, it's not something that evil NGOs invented or I don't know some sectors, some that want Croatia badly are already facts and the fact is what we can deal with when we talk about this. Some topics are particularly important and deserve to be reiterated, which in some ways were indirectly discussed directly and discussed at these meetings. And that's primarily the Schengen area. It is certainly to welcome the efforts of the EU Council to standardise the collection and interpretation of pandemic data. However, a question has been raised that has already been raised before, the issue of the functionality of Schengen under the terms of the pandemic. So we have seen that many countries have closed the borders, that some citizens of other countries have been cut off from their countries of origin, have not been able to return, so there has been a whole, whole series of problems and in such a situation, in such a dysfunction of Schengen I would dare say, there is, of course, a question and Croatian accession to Schengen. They assure us that we must prove that we are able to defend the external borders. I think we've proven that more than once. We are also often convinced here that we have met all technical preconditions, so there remains only a matter of technical or political will, the political question now is whether Croatia will enter Schengen or not. We have also heard assurances that this will happen relatively quickly, but that it is ungrateful to talk about timing during the pandemic period. In part, I can agree with that, but when you consider that Romania and Bulgaria have been waiting for a full number of years to enter Schengen, then we can talk about a new dimension of a political problem that can create problems for our economy. The second segment I should especially highlight is climate change. In fact, I wouldn't hold back on what was said before in another perspective. In view of the unprecedented economic crisis facing the EU, and yet because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it seems to me that the objectives set from the EU to 2030 are a little too ambitious, so to cut emissions by half. Or perhaps they wouldn't be too ambitious when we look at it from the perspective of countries that have already moved much further away in this segment. What I am interested in is, in fact, whether there is an impact assessment of meeting the objectives of the Croatian budget and the economy? We haven't heard anything about it, and I'd very much like to hear about it because it's often that we take responsibility, that we don't think long-term and strategically, and that's when we end up turning our heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10568	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10569	... Vice-President, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Representatives and Representatives. [[Speaker not enabled]] The debate at Council meetings in October was particularly economical about how to strengthen the common market under the circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also been discussed that joint efforts by all governments can prepare their reform and resilience programmes in a way that the relevance of investment and reform financing reaches 37% for the green transition and 20% for the digital transformation. The trail will, as announced, also include the activities of the Croatian government in months and years to follow up on the work of this European Commission and implement programmes provided through the 7-year budget. I am using once again the opportunity to praise the government's efforts to secure EUR 22 billion from the European budget for Croatia. This is twice as much as we had available in the multiannual financial framework that is behind us and represents one of the largest amounts per capita of the aid intensity that the Member States have chosen during the negotiations. It is an amount which ensures that for each euro invested we get more than EUR 4.5 from the EU budget. Given that the European Parliament is seeking to increase funds for 15 key European programmes such as research and development, green and digital transition and exchange of students, without touching these funds for agriculture and cohesion and negotiations, it is important to reach an agreement as soon as possible to start the implementation of programmes that are key for both recovery and further development of all EU policies in time. An important part of the financial envelope concerns agricultural policy, so I must say that I am satisfied with the European Parliament's decision that, by adopting a new common agricultural policy, adopted the position of the Committee on Agriculture in which my amendments have been incorporated to protect the interests of Croatia and Croatian farmers. This applies primarily to the full payment of direct payments from the European budget of 2022 to Croatian farmers as provided for by the Treaty of Accession of the Croatian Union and the flexibility on the transfer of rural development funds to direct payments in order to further support food production, small OPGs and generation renewal of the village. It is also in line with the Council's views. Given that the main topics of the council's session were also related to digital transformation and green transition here, I would like to remind myself that there is a need to focus efforts towards ensuring a fast internet in rural areas, which is also a prerequisite for realising the concept of smart villages. The current crisis has shown how important it is to have good infrastructure, how much it can help new business models and new sales methods. Although in urban areas, 86% of the population has access to a fast and broadband network of more than 40% of homes in rural areas still do not. As part of building fast internet access in rural areas, it is very important to take into account that this will allow the digitisation of the European agricultural sector, which is crucial for climate change mitigation, and is also a priority in the Green Plan and the Recovery Fund. The availability of fast and reliable internet connections in rural areas is crucial in order to enable the development of any future smart solutions for our agriculture and rural business. The fast Internet will also provide better information, education and health services that are necessary to enable generation renewal in agriculture and the development of a modern rural economy. The non-exhaustive theme of the Council session was also the pandemic Covid-19 and the activities undertaken at Union level with regard to the reservation of the supply of sufficient amounts of vaccines for all Member States. Since the virus continues to spread, it is necessary to continuously strengthen health systems as well as to exchange information between Member States in due time. I would point out that we all need to focus on protecting public health on the one hand and retaining freedom of movement on the other hand in order to maintain economic activities and preserve the education system as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10570	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10571	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mrs. Petir, I think you've actually touched the right subject that we haven't heard enough about. So, a multi-annual financial framework has been discussed but we have not heard either the prime minister's assessment or how it was discussed at the EU Council, whether the agreement will be reached. Not only is it because the European Parliament has to give not to say that this would be wrong, but it must give its consent, but also because decisions on own resources in most Member States are actually meant because national parliaments also have to ratify what is of course going on. We are now at the beginning of November still there is time, but not long until the beginning of next year, and you yourself have spoken about what repercussions would be, or what all we have to worry about, which will happen if the budget is not adopted or the multiannual financial framework is not adopted in time, if there is a delay in how much repercusion can be just to say the Croatian farmers, and where to the wider.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10572	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10573	Thank you, Representative Hajdukovic, for your replica. It is certainly important for the European Parliament to agree with the Council on the budget. As far as I have information and the rapporteur is Jan Olbricht, he stressed that parliament will try to raise the level of envelope for these 15 areas that are important, but in a way that does not touch the funds for agriculture and cohesion. According to my information, it is the Council's position to limit itself, the framework of the multiannual financial framework will not be touched and these talks are ongoing for the time being. We all need to be interested in reaching agreement because we see that these funds are absolutely necessary and that they need to be put into circulation as soon as possible so that we hope that both will be heard enough on the one hand to achieve that balance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10574	There is also a respected representative, Šimičević, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10575	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke of agriculture, the distinguished MPs. What we can expect in the next period in quantitative and qualitative terms as regards agricultural production and whether we as a country can be competitive in this EU not to import so much of this product and to export it more because we have the resources needed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10576	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10577	Thank you, counselor, for this replica, for your systematic concern for agriculture. Our envelope at European level will be significantly higher for the next period, amounting to EUR 4.5 billion, which is really money. But what I would appeal to and call on the representatives of the government here, and we have already done so to the Ministry of Agriculture that we, as representatives, are consulted and involved in the processes of future programming because we are still representing the people, and then we listen to what the people are telling us and we think that we can help to make this programming better than we have had experience so that we do not experience in the future if we have great resources, and we spend them on the wrong measures and do not help domestic agriculture. In order to add that some measures can also be implemented without money more stringently by supervision, inspection and what comes from third countries, but and what comes from the internal market. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10578	Honorable representative Ante Bacic also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10579	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned normal agriculture, but you also mentioned a green plan and a digital Europe. the percentages and methods of financing itself. A great emphasis on what was at the council meetings, but also on what the prime minister mentioned in the opening presentation, which is exactly the financing of all of this. in particular, taking into account only the starting point and specificities of certain countries. You, as a member of the European Parliament, were normal, so here I am, firsthand, interested in all these transition funds and all these means of funding, as far as the EU will be concerned. how many leaders will manage to fight precisely for the specificity of their respective areas and what they need in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10580	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, repatriate, so I think that, as in any other segment of life, when you negotiate at EU level with other leaders, it depends on how you set up yourself and what argument you will make and what support you will collect. I remember when I became only a representative in the European Parliament then they told me so you came from Croatia from a small country and you won't have any influence. That's what our people here have been telling us, but it turns out that if you come out with a good argument, if you collect the support of other colleagues who will understand that argument that you can achieve some shifts and results, protect Croatia's interests. From what we have so far seen, I could say that the prime minister has influence in the European Council, that he has gathered that support, that he is going out with arguments and that he will have exceptions that Croatia will He's looking to make it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10582	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10583	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues here all day we are discussing the meetings of the European Council itself, because on this regular topic there are approximately the same or the same normal emphasis on the Covid pandemic itself and on this joint struggle of the EU Member States, and we see all the difficulties that are ahead of us, but there is also a normal focus on foreign policy as always one major agenda, a major point on the agenda of the European Council meetings, but here I think that there are some representatives who have opened and focused their debate on climate change and on digital Europe, which I am going to do, which I think is definitely one future that is waiting for us here and after Covid, for which we believe that some of us will be able to focus on perhaps a more simple and simple opportunity for the new Member States as well as possible. As far as climate change itself is concerned, we see very ambitious statements in this report itself both by the European Parliament and by the European Commission, but also by the members of the European Council, and it is interesting that in the introduction of the European Parliament President, a large part of his speech has just been dedicated to climate change, and here by the members of the European Parliament itself, he has offered an ambitious solution than the European Commission itself has offered, and this is the self-predictation of the reduction of greenhouse gases from 60% to 2030. I believe this also applies to that period of 1990. As far as the European Commission and the European Council are concerned, it is good that, regardless of the pandemic itself and regardless of all the problems, ambition is precisely investing in topics such as climate change and digital Europe is highly commendable. So it is precisely this ambition of the European Commission and the President herself that has been put forward through the amendment that the EU should work together for the benefit of all citizens to reduce at least 50% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The important emphasis is what I mentioned in several replicas and what the prime minister himself was saying in his presentation, which is exactly that way of funding. Some MPs have said what may and may be at this time when the budgets are cut, when we invest a lot in health and the fight against Covid who will make money for these ambitious plans, but I believe that this is an opportunity especially for countries the size of Croatia, countries that are not burdened or some heavy industrialisation has been resolved, I think this is an excellent opportunity for us to jump into this ambitious train and European Councils and the European Commission but also the European Parliament and simply until 2030. By 2050, we meet the very criteria that are set out ahead of us. One good example is what I was initially referring to through the replica of the Prime Minister himself, which is the island of Vis, which today I think has passed about a month, two days since one of the largest solar power plants in the Mediterranean with a size of 5.5 hectares that will be energy-settled by the needs of 1600 island households and where Vis will become a self-sustainable green island that will no longer depend on any other conventional or old technologies. I think it's a future for countries, especially divorced countries like Croatia with 1,000 islands with different geographical, normal, positions, which are dependent, normal and on electricity and drinking water, but this is one future and one extension we definitely have opportunities to invest in, and we definitely need to take advantage of our position in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10584	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to the MPs about the green transition and the need to invest in renewable energy sources and the skeptics of individual MPs who today has been shown here that Croatia may not have enough funds for these investments. But I'd like to draw attention here that if we don't focus on the concept of smart villages and start encouraging the production of green energy in our own backyard, which is financially not so demanding, then we could achieve goals that are really very ambitious, and without fear of having enough money to invest. That's why I'd like to hear your thinking, in which way you're looking at it in more rural areas in a larger volume in the production of green energy, and then a contribution to the establishment of the concept of smart villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10586	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10587	Thank you, fellow Petyr, for this replica. I agree with you, you take this segment of smart village, I often mention smart islands. I think that's definitely the future that we now see happening on individual islands, here's this example, specifically Visa, which is the furthest, one of the most remote islands that has the biggest problem and the most traffic connection, but also sustainability related to drinking water, but also generally electrical energy, and we see how this is solved. In the future, when we look at everything, when we look at the investment, when we look at an ambitious plan with which the commission has come into office, and that is green Europe and digital Europe and investment in our own products, in particular by putting emphasis on the countryside and on agriculture, I think it is one investment that may look big at the beginning, but in a decade ahead, in an ambitious decade of the EU, I think all this will ultimately be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10588	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10589	Thank you very much. Here, as the prime minister says, is a new normal expression, as the prime minister's report appears, and of course when I see the ruling, i.e. You from most of the way you praise him under these lights, I don't know if we live in the same country, we representatives and Croatian people. I'm sorry the prime minister isn't here because he hasn't given a few answers, he hasn't given me answers on the subject means 5G network, 5G network HT boasts that he's already setting to... the commercial and this Croatian state does not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the Croatian state has forgiven HT, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia, whether it's via the Misetic dynasty or through whom, I don't know, has forgiven half a hundred million kuna to pay the rent. the use of frequencies. Rent to use frequencies. This is not possible in Germany, Deutsche Telekom or anyone, but in Croatia it is possible and I warn this when we talk about the unity of the market. So foreign teleoperators, here, you can give me a replica of all, you can call the prime minister here in agreement with Mr. Branko Bačić, let him come, let him say if I'm lying. It is possible in Croatia. My colleague Petyr was just talking about agriculture, about a smart village, and then a man comes along with... He says he was talking about the smart islands of this, but when we talk about agriculture, do you know that the other day the police came to the Castelan greenhouses on call, I don't know who, the bankruptcy manager, with the city's agreement to throw people out, their water and electricity in 14 containers of 12 acres full of salad, corn, shut down their water, and that's going down, and 30 workers who get paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that self-sufficiency? Is that new normal? It's absurd on absurds. At the same time, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues Petir, when you call for agriculture, Croatia has a million and a half hectares of agricultural land. She's supposed to, you know how much? Seven thousand acres. And in the government program that you've given support, they've yet to announce that 100% will raise irrigation. You know how much that is? How many more, as much as my Sinj field, 14 thousand acres of a million and a half acres. It's mocking by a healthy logic. Understand what it's absurd by all this, green plan. What green plan? That Minister Coric is sending vervain trash to Sinj to postpone. To spend money on the Center for Waste Management Lens 30 million kuna,... Strawberries follow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will not have di trash, in Dalmatia threatened, in Split in Split-Dalmatia County threatened with a waste crisis, there will be no dibs with waste, and waste is not garbage. All of you here boast like I don't know, and we won't talk about the harmful projects of former Minister Buric, the thermal power plant... Her husband, the Perun thermal power plant, you remember that well, don't turn your secretaries with your head, you remember that well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remember the action she was from the esteemed secretary, then Minister Dalic. So it has nothing to do with greening with environmental science or anyone who cares about environmental science, you were much more important to Krs Padjene, that Minister Coric was the same day that he became minister, when Most came from the government signed by Krs Padjene, 2 billion kunas of what our citizens will pay for, only for renewable sources. Here's what I'm asking you as a man, is it normal for us to pay for a new normal? A billion-and-a-half kuna subsidies to renewable energy sources for wind power plants to foreign investors, and we use the energy of the parties 0.35% more benefits of Finland, and we have God-given days of the sun. But the wind power plants were much more potential for a coalition deal then. And what do we have today? We have poor villages, exploiting these areas and empty villages, not smart villages, but empty villages. Is that if we had listened to the proposal of the bridge on microsolars, families at home for free of charge for giving subsidies in 4 years, every house in the Republic would have a free solar power plant. That's not what you wanted. And so the man would remain in the country, and also in the city, and this way we will lose the village, and until the village is in charge there is nothing from Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10590	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10591	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here is the fact that a lot has already been said I will focus on one topic or rather on one dimension of these meetings of the European Council because it includes virtually all the topics that have been discussed and on October 1st and 2nd or 15th and 16th, and that is one attempt by the EU to take over, to affirm its own position if you want your own position on the world stage. This is especially seen on the subject of digitisation, if you look at the conclusions of point 7 of the European Council of 1 and 2 October even speaking and using this concept of digital sovereignty or sovereignty of the EU. And on that same trail, the European Council calls on the European Commission to continue to work rapidly on the realisation of the concept of the European cloud, so against those private companies that have clouds or cloudes, it encourages the introduction of 5G technology across the EU and concludes that the EU will continue to be open to all businesses, but those that operate according to EU rules and standards. However, the idea is that in this way the EU will stress that it will define its own path of development and its relations with other key factors in world policy. In support of such an approach, however, it is also necessary to avoid one of my superficial interpretations that the EU is leading or that the EU should lead some kind of non-classified policy for the 21st century or that it must have equal distance towards both the United States and China as the main competitors in the modern world today. Such a policy in my opinion would be missed because, on the one hand, regardless of all the tensions we have today, this is not the block divide that was during the Cold War in five minutes, but simply this situation is not the same as the one from the Cold War, and the other because such a policy would not be sustainable in the US and China, I think, would be bad for the EU, it would open up fronts or increase the impact that would come from the East, but also from the West, which, of course, would probably not be sustainable in the situation where the EU has many internal problems. So, instead of such an unfavourable scenario for the EU, I believe it would be wiser, smarter and that the EU needs to affirm its own political identity and its interests on the global stage, but to make further efforts in developing transatlantic relations, especially after today's US elections. We do not yet know what the result will be, but regardless of the result of these elections, the EU certainly has instruments, it has tools to improve these transatlantic relations. I am particularly saying this from our Croatian perspective, yet the most important thing for us is what the position of the Republic of Croatia will be, and in my opinion our national interests, our national security can best be achieved, we can best strengthen in the context of the strategic and operational cooperation of Western democracies. In this context, in further talks that will certainly be held after these elections today in the United States, the debate that will be held within the EU of different institutions and also at the European Council, I believe it would be prudent and in line with our national interests to be more closely involved, to strengthen these transatlantic relations by respecting and stressing once more, my own identity and, of course, the EU's own interests, and within that framework, especially the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10592	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10593	Thank you very much. My fellow Stier, I ask you a few questions they gave you logically, as it is possible for us to have renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia that harm the Croatian man because they milk from wind power plants while in other countries they use solar energy in Finland for example. No sundays? Tell me how it is possible that in the Republic of Croatia when we call for self-sustainability a few days ago full plastics are salads and other agricultural products while importing EUR 3 billion of food products. At the same time, we've been sent by the police on these people who deal with it and hire 30 of these to shut down their water. How is it possible, is it absurd, what is happening, whether they prevailed over the Croatian import lobby? As you view independence as an energy, agricultural, we know that agricultural land is unprocessed and in total in this market when it comes to the single market... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10594	Your Honor, Mr. Stier, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10595	Thank you, Your Honor, so I believe that the potential for renewable energy sources in Croatia does not only exist but it is large. You didn't mention it, but I think the hydropotential is especially our biggest or that's exactly what I'm not an expert on, but according to my information, it's in this area, of course, that's what we're working on, but there's also the greatest potential. What would certainly connect with these conclusions of the European Council and on the basis of this issue of yours is that for the energy sovereignty of all individual EU member states, so is the best such European co-operation. Without it, it would actually increase dependence on other actors, on other actors outside the EU who would then just step up what you call an import lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10596	The next replica will be a respected representative of Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10597	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs have been mentioned by the EU regarding the US and China, what do you think as an experienced politician is Europe stable, firm on its feet when it comes to relations with the US and China, and especially now in the context of Brexit, or leaving England from the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10598	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10599	Thank you, dear colleague, for that question. Perhaps in the end, it seems to me that Brexit has said that more than once in this home, perhaps in the last term, but he would now repeat, that this decision was primarily geopolitical for reasons of course to be respected. They brought British citizens to the referendum, but a British elite also seemed to support that direction. Less of some kind of calculation in terms of trade or economic interests, more of a geopolitical logic. This logic, of course, is not the same for other countries, for example. It is absolutely certain that from this same geopolitical logic for Croatia is best for its own, for its national interests is EU membership. We don't have any commonwealth, for example. as the UK has to rely, on the contrary, on our accession to the EU has strengthened our statehood in this regard as well. I think you should go and engage us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10600	The next one is the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10601	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Stier, on the basis of these events in Paris and Vienna do you think that Croatia should reject the globalist agenda and the political correctness imposed on one part by the Marrakech compact and on the other, do you think that it is necessary for Christian European roots and identity as a necessary defense that should defend us against extreme Islam?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10602	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10603	Well, my opinion is that the fulfillment of those ten points that President Tudjman made out of this particular phone booth on May 30, '90. said in its inauguration and which, in my opinion, are still current today, which includes, of course, full participation in the EU today, but also a number of other measures that this is the best interest of the Republic of Croatia if you ask me just such a question. I believe as far as Europe itself is concerned, that its Christian roots should be greatly valorised because no one will respect you unless you respect yourself, and it is a matter of self-respect to admit what our roots are. It does not mean, of course, imposing any religion, some belief simply to admit that our Western civilization not only Europeans simply came from the Judeo-Christian tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10604	The next is a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10605	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stier, you have concentrated mostly on the foreign policy part of the report, but I see that in the assembly somehow this side of the opposition predominates the opinion that we have lost some sovereignty by entering the EU, and I just think the opposite is being won. The world is getting smaller, we are increasingly inclusive, if we had so many meetings with the Chinese prime minister and summit in Dubrovnik, if the Croatian prime minister met so many times with other prime ministers, statesmen, if we had European funds and ultimately had such accelerated development of institutions and all that we have as the position of Croatia in the world. So, I think that's what we just got.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10606	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10607	My dear colleague, I fully agree with you. I think Croatia has strengthened its statehood and its position in the world by entering both NATO and the EU. Interestingly, those who dispute and sometimes even quote other leaders today. from Central Europe, however, these same leaders do not come to their senses to get out of the EU. So all countries, for example. Central Europe, often quoted sometimes even misinterprets or tends to try to show none of them want to leave the EU. It's an interesting piece of information in itself, but let's get back to our reality. I absolutely agree and say again on the trail of that historic one more time I will repeat President Tudjman's speech from the '90s, indeed, by our entry into the European family of democracy, we have actually strengthened our position as sovereign state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10608	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10609	Thank you, Chairman. I'll start my speech perhaps unusually with a few commendations. Some of our political credo and my own personal political chalk are that as an opposition, we strongly criticise the ruling, but if something good is done to make it and praise it because otherwise the practice will never change. So first I want to commend that we have a chance to discuss this report from the European Council meetings in HS, I think it's a good practice. As a new parliamentary representative when I saw it on the agenda, I would welcome it and I would like it to continue in the next term of the Parliament whoever will then have the ruling majority. I think it is appropriate because it is the political positions of the Croatian government at the meetings of the European Council and I think we should be able to discuss this in HS. The second thing is that after the opening presentation, the Prime Minister said that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan will be discussed in HS that is something that we sought as a platform "We can" at a press conference which, as well as many topics these days, is going under the radar because of one of the biggest crises we are going through as a country, primarily a health crisis, and I think that we would do well to discuss this in HS that we should set up a working body to monitor the implementation of the National Recovery Plan and also that it is periodically reported in HS by the government that this national plan is being implemented. The third thing I also wanted to say was that the prime minister was with us defending his report and presenting his report. It could have been done by the foreign minister, but he is the prime minister as the head of the European Council and I think it is appropriate for the prime minister to present him to MPs in HS. I would have liked it even more if it had stayed until the end of the debate, and not only until the debate on behalf of the clubs, but what remains of me is longer than many parliamentary deputies, and that is what particularly saddens me that in the hall we have twice as many parliamentary representatives as it can be in this Chamber after these last epidemiological measures. I think this is a very important topic and I'm saddened by the fact that one half of the MPs are missing in this hall from different clubs. All right. You could talk about the EU's foreign policy on the new conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan through which conflicts between different world powers are broken again, but I won't, nor will Belarus, I will talk as a representative of the green-left climate change options and this aspect of the report, especially the fight against climate change from the left perspective as we see it in the "We Can". To begin with, I disagree with colleagues from the Homeland Movement who are no longer here after they have done their job, who say that climate goals are just a list of good wishes and that green policies cost and that now is a crisis and that it is not time to spend money on it. So I absolutely disagree. I can only agree in the segment that there will be a list of good wishes, if these goals will not follow policy, and that plan I wait to see and see if we put the money as it says where we left our mouths, because only then will we be able to say if we have public investments in that direction whether we are going towards those goals or not. I also don't like the word green transition that the prime minister sometimes uses, I don't like the word green reform that he said today, I love the word green transformation because it shows that we need a deeper change in society and economy than some transition or just some reforms of surface, deeper, transformation and the economy of society if we want to be members of the climate neutral EU and a country that is climate neutral. What I agree with the Prime Minister is that we can't, and I'm glad he said it today, and I'll keep his word when the National Recovery Plan comes, that we can't just recycle the existing projects that are on the lager because if we do, then we haven't changed anything. These are the projects that were previously written and it will be just a business assual scenario. What we advocate are the goals of reducing emissions and at the same time increasing jobs. We believe, unlike colleagues from the Homeland Movement, that this is a chance, a radical developmental turn that will create new green jobs, which at the same time will make us less energy and food-dependent, where we will produce more and less imports and energy and food and that this food and energy will be both more quality and greener and healthier for the environment and for the people who live here. So it's our national recovery plan, a development opportunity we can't miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10610	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10611	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Tomasevic, thank you for your constructive and beautiful words. As far as I know the Prime Minister, I've been an associate with him for many years now, and I don't think that was questionable at all. The prime minister wants to strengthen HS's work, pay respects, and today he was practically a day away from the current clock with us. When we look at the view of the green transformation or the green transition as it says in the report, different views from the left and from the right are different. Where we, as Christians, view it as an opportunity to transform the economy, to raise competitiveness, but in a sustainable way. And that's what the European Parliament would like, that consent we all have to stand behind the green plan, we stand for different reasons, but we stand behind these public policies. And what I'm going to agree with you is that new projects have to go and that both national and... development projects are going to develop this society forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10612	Well, no, I've already said I think it's an expression of respect for Parliament that the prime minister presented a report here, and I think that kind of practice should be welcomed because if such things don't say hello then they'll never change. On the other hand, we'll see only, those are now words, we'll see the works. We also had a government plan with which this government was elected in HS and there's a lot of nice things there, and we'll see the works. The first chance for this will be the national recovery plan, the first opportunity for this will be the development strategy that should have been in place at the beginning of this year, for which it was paid, what, more than 30 million kuna to the World Bank has still not seen the light of the day. We also need it for operational programmes and it is also necessary for the national recovery plan for the next EU Generation and without these changes, without these changes, Croatia will not be more resilient both as an economy and as a society. Less import and energy and food, on the other hand, open new quality green jobs. It's not just a number, it's a quality. It's important to the left. Conditions of operation, not just reduction emissions [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10613	Next replica of respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10614	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear fellow Tomasevic, you have opened the topic of green development or whatever we want to call it, a green plan. So it came out a little bit under our focus the moment the crown happened, when the crown happened, but it's something that Croatia has the possibility of future development, it's something that should be in our first list of priorities. The prime minister spoke of it several times, and we have two faces of our prime minister, one who is in Brussels where the prime minister is european and others, when he returns to Croatia. What is agreed in Brussels we want to apply there. We want to see the results here because then it's actually the meaning of all this together, I'm one of those who absolutely advocates the idea of an EU that is absolutely acceptable to me, but I don't want to have two prime ministers, one in Brussels, the other in Zagreb, I want the citizens of Croatia It's a good thing they're doing [[Thank you very much.]] from ideas that develop in Brussels. [[Employer: The Answer of Honored Representative Tomasevic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10615	Well, I agree with you, and I mean, not only do we see two prime ministers but we see two more people, Minister Coric, who is the minister of sustainable development, who is directly responsible for all aspects of sustainable development and this economic and social and environmental. And we see what he's saying in Brussels, and what he's doing as a former environmental minister, and now Minister of Sustainable Development. It means where I disagree with the Prime Minister, compared to what he said today. That we should be driving on two tracks. Which means fossil energy sources at the same time new projects, not old ones, but new fossil energy projects such as LNG terminals and new renewable energy projects. I'm afraid by driving on those two tracks, we won't get anywhere. Because these two colossals are contradictory. So we won't be able to achieve these ambitious goals, and if we're going to start new fossil fuel projects that we're going to have to realise for decades to pay off, and that's all we're gonna do is lock down. in the fossil future, not that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] what we want to change. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10616	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10617	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Ministers, secretary of state, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So today we are discussing reports with the EU Council on 1st and 2nd October and 15th and 16. I will concentrate precisely on one and the other report on climate change and the single market for industrial policy and digitisation. When we talk about climate change, the Paris chord has been agreed by 2030. 40% reduction. It is also agreed that in 2050 the entire EU will be climaticly neutral. These are our objectives and where we need to have a green transformation into economies so that we can respond to them. It is now becoming even more ambitious by 2030, 55% reduction in CO2 by 2030, up from 50% to 55%, or the EU strategy, and as such we are looking at it as a developmental one. Developmental why? Because when you read only the report you will see inside that, especially in the Single Market and Industrial Policy proposal, 37% of national recovery plans and resilience will go right to climate change, 20% to digitization. Many may have missed, a sentence in the report, says strengthening assistance to existing important projects of common European interest in the area of batteries and micro-electronics. Croatia is an IPSE programme developed by the French and Germans, the Battery Alliance, the Battery Alliance, Croatia nominated Mr. Rimca, the campus to deal with the development of new technologies and exactly one of the new projects, Mr. Tomašević, who will also see in the WFO will be the development of batteries, Croatia will contribute to the 100m-euro chain in the Holy Week. This is one example and this sentence means support at European level, such projects, and Croatia has run for the very campus in St. Sunday. Therefore, we have shown that we know, we can and we have run similar and such projects in the EU. When we talk about democracy, and right from our political family, a lot of these green policies go. From a different discourse from the left in the EU to parliament. We view this as an opportunity for the development of new technologies, digitisation, raising the competitiveness of the EU economy and allowing our people to stay in the Republic of Croatia, earning quality wages here and create a sufficient amount of jobs for them. Croatia is already rich in renewable energy sources, as the prime minister pointed out, we have 29% from renewable energy sources, but the new technology transfer should be a new goal. I'd look back, too, it was the question of the rule of law. When I read... The speaker doesn't understand. They have made a list of countries with recommendations from the rule of law report which therefore have concerns and particular concerns and Croatia is at the bottom of the 3rd scale. So Mr. Hajdukovic, I see no reason to be so concerned about jeopardising the European Fund by binding the rule of law in Croatia. Of course our courts can be better, of course our media scene can be better, of course we need to make significant progress as well as recommendations, but I absolutely see the issue of fear unless the opposition really wants to happen because, that such a situation happens, and it won't. In all, 20% of the recovery plan will be for the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises in.../incomprehensible/... 30% for the green plan, 25% for research and development. What we now need to put our heads on the line, find smart solutions, find green solutions and enable further development of the Croatian economy and the momentum that these 23.5 billion Euros will give over the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10618	Thank you, we have more replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10619	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pavic between paper and reality is a certain difference. So in the former assembly session, we went with one conclusion to encourage the elimination of the use of plastic spoons and plastics in catering facilities, in cafes, in the assembly and in what is in the government's intelligence. Smoothly, but absolutely smoothly you rejected our conclusion and you said there was absolutely no need and you worked very hard to explain that the problem was public procurement and I don't know what not. So we don't have anything, we didn't even have anything against what you refused ours but that you spent it. For each of us to do something with our daily lives of 4 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, we took one step. So this was just a good will. Governments or parliaments were not even willing to do so. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10620	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10621	I'm sorry, but you're wrong. You're absolutely wrong. You're absolutely wrong. When you're looking at CO2 missions in total, so just laugh at the entire EU 10% of the world's CO2 emissions to make the entire EU half the emission level, so we all stop flying what we're doing right now because it's a pandemic that 1.5% of the total we've solved 5% of the world's problem. The spoons in the assembly will not solve the issue of CO2 emissions. Do these things need to be at a symbolic level, yes, I don't know why they didn't, but you're wrong, we need to go a little more globally, we need to develop technologies that will lead to new jobs and reduce CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10622	The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10623	I think it was a lapus about it when you said it was 50% so far, so it wants to increase the reduction to 55%, I guess you mean 40% to 55% by 2030 compared to the base '90s. However, I wanted to say first this about 10% of the EU, so I think how many populations live worldwide in the EU, so I don't see, so the EU continues to contribute more to climate emissions than the percentage of the world population living in the EU so I don't see that argument. However, I wanted to look back on this right and left, so from the perspective you're for the economy, so we're for the economy, but it's no matter who in that economy will benefit from the green transformation. Will it be agricultural companies and corporations like Agrokor or OPGs spoken of by colleagues Bulj? Will it be an energy cooperative or will it be energy corporations? It doesn't matter, it means what the working conditions will be, how these green jobs will be paid, that's what the left is interested in, not just of course. A reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, that may be the reason. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10624	The answer of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10625	Thank you very much. You're right, that the Parischord is 40%, 50% was the first proposal, and now on this European Council, negotiations were negotiated and it was argued that it was more ambitious to go from 50% to 55% more ambitious. As for the different views, we have different views here, but I'm glad that through the national plan we'll be able to discuss these views to see who in the end. Finally, citizens should benefit from this, primarily to say through the development of jobs and high value added technology that will create new jobs in Croatia, which will be sustainable and low-carbon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10626	The Republic also has a respected representative, Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that you have mentioned that the development of green policy is an integral part and a democratic policy, especially in recent times, Christian democracy has made a major contribution to the development of such a green policy at EU level and it seems to me that it will only be further intensified in the future. So, to preserve, environmental concerns certainly no political formation has a monopoly, but the fact that Christian democracy is also making a contribution to this is probably also the encyclics of Laudatu and gave another incentive to the democratic politicians to go in that direction. In any case, you mentioned it in your speech, so I wanted to point it out this way because sometimes it doesn't connect, and I think it's important to point it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10628	The answer of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10629	Thank you, well-respected counsel Stier, when we read both the papal encyclics and these and previous popes, we see exactly environmental concerns and a broader view as a very important topic for which democratic politicians should also be guided. I personally had a great experience interning in the European Parliament, looking at how our group at the time you were a representative in the European Parliament, where the people were looking at this topic, and I completely changed the way I looked at it. I now view this as a potential for development, as I have pointed out many times now, the development of technologies that will enable sustainable development, new jobs and the survival of young people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10630	Dear representative Bencic also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10631	Thank you. My question after everything you've said and what makes you a great technooptimist, things aren't that simple and technology won't solve everything without good policies, and one of the key policies in green transformation is justice. And what's my question is did you predict in the recovery plan and in the mechanism for a fair transition did you detect exactly what our companies and industries are going to have to provide for workers under a fair transition because they would lose jobs or would those jobs have to be transformed? In particular, because of your Minister Ćorić, some are already losing their jobs although it is not part of the green transformation, but rather of HDZ's abductions, so, for example, ask the people of the Sisak Refinery how they see that this transformation should be and what should be just for them. So, did you also detect what companies and industries are and when are we going to know exactly how much money you give to the workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10632	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10633	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad you mentioned the Sisak Refinery. The possibility of funding precisely this green transition through the Just Adition Fund, the Justised Transition Fund, which will function as one of the instruments of the Green Plan. The intensity is to select counties at... level and within these counties develop projects that will lead to a reduction of CO2 from the green transition in these areas. It should be seen in negotiations with the European Commission since European funds are not able to be used for firms in difficulty, but I believe that a solution will be found. So this government is thinking about it. The second project would be connected to Plomin. Third Project Don't throw it away. [[Intruder Reiner: Please do not throw from the site.]] I didn't interrupt when you insulted me. The third project would also be perhaps a speedboat or a new ferry on a... energy source.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10634	Thank you. Next replica. Here's a colleague of Bull's who's been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10635	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd ask you to... an article, all the articles so scrawny on a lady that if you had sunnily, you'd say in our neighborhood the way you turned Bencic on your colleague. So please be a little more calm with the women. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10636	My colleague Bull, abuse the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. Dear Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is interesting that you quote some of the sources that your party president and government are disdaining for that same pay phone and when I quote them and quote them then they are irrelevant and then it is the work of some urinals, etc. I've pointed out more than once that I don't want to be a mean law-rule vice, but I don't know if you've read the report. And I don't know if you're worried about the part that says we don't have any strategy or clear mechanisms for fighting and dealing with corruption. So do I have to remind you how many ministers left the last government because of allegations of corruption? Now we're already in this government having a few corrupt affairs, so to speak. Club i.e. Kovacevic, Janaf, Wind Power Plants, etc., etc.? Do you think this contributes to the rule of law and good image of Croatia not only in the European Union but also in the world?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10638	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10639	Thank you very much. Well, the prime minister has made it clear many times that there are no untouchables, that he does not control the processes, that the judiciary is absolutely independent and as such that we have absolute support to fight corruption. As for the report itself, of course things can be better. I am not an expert in the rule of law, but I am an expert in EU funds and what I can tell you is that your fear that we will lose EU funds for the rule of law regarding Croatia is unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10640	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, State Secretary, Prime Minister, you're here somewhere. counterpart Pavić called the opposition for anti-europeanism a little too harshly or something. There are opposition and opposition. We are, I am very probably more pro-European-oriented than most of your party will dare even say to you, but we will not argue who is the bigger European. Europe, therefore, has, together with 28 countries that have been set up in some way, been subsequently joined by the European Union. It is, therefore, Christian in any instance, Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant for its colonial traditions or history. Part of the population is also religious from other religions that were not originally as you said Western civilizations because they either came or migrated to the European Union. There are naturally people atheists, agnostics, etc. And the European Union is something which is therefore a symbiosis of the diversity that I think works well. He can do better, but he's trying. We are at the time of accession to the European Union remember two problems from three neighbours. One was the question of ZERP and fishing mostly with Italians. And the question of the border where she was also mentioned at sea a question with the Slovenians, but no one questioned our identity, language and everything else. Unfortunately, the accession of Northern Macedonia or Macedonia to the European Union is, in my opinion, an example of how these things can also be questioned in the 21st century. First by Greece for names, flags, etc. and after that by Bulgaria because of the language so-called common history and so on, so the Balkans have obviously not solved these controversys yet. What's next? So, we have an identity dispute situation in Montenegro, even we, here and there, mention that the rebels who plead as Bunjevci are not actually Bunjevi but should be Croats, but they themselves say they are Bunjevi, so what are we going to tell them what they are and the nationality that used to be called Muslims is identified as Bosniaks and they have their own language called Bosnian. But those questions aren't over. Therefore, as the current Head of the Friendship Group with Macedonia as part of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee, I am somewhat more familiar with the situation and it really is something where we should actually talk affirmatively about Macedonia's accession to the EU, especially now that it has waited a few ten years to join NATO because of the name when it is settled. So what's this about? So part of Bulgaria's ruling coalition insists that they recognise that they have a common history, that they have the Bulgarian roots of their own language, that with the memory of the plates from our common anti-fascist struggle, they remove that Bulgarians were both occupiers and also fascist occupiers. So, things in the Balkans aren't as simple as the rest of it, they're not simple there either, but they probably have a little bit further roots. I therefore think that it should support Macedonia's entry into the EU that it should be made clear in this part that these issues of the identity of language, state, borders etc. They are not the topic of discussion and that simply this story should be closed in some way. I hope that, in this sense, the Croatian government, as much as it can act on Bulgarian colleagues to put the ball down a little bit on the ground, without simply insisting on these things because it is a kind of humiliation, let us be honest. So if you're contesting someone's name is what they want and you're still asking them to confess, so imagine that the Germans asked the Austrians to admit that they were ex-Germans or that they were ex-Germans, that's not how it works. In that sense, I would like Croatia to have an affirmative approach in its efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10642	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly pointed out the topic of Macedonia's EU accession because it is a state that has been unfair for more than 10 years in the waiting room ahead of which many ultimatums are being placed and are actually proving to be worth double the rules. I, in the European Parliament, established a Friendship Group of the European Parliament and Macedonia just to support this Euro-Atlantic path, and I must say here that I am glad that the Croatian government has always been a support for Macedonia and that I would like to make it clearer to address these double standards that are used towards Macedonia, which you have pointed out here, firstly in the case of Greece and Bulgaria. It was a constant game of cats and mice and to put an end to it because it is terribly unfair and because this is, apart from harming the state and seeking concessions that are not just or acceptable, absolutely harming the Macedonian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10644	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10645	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, Petir, but it also hurts the EU, and we are part of the EU, so I believe that it is harming us too. What else actually happened? I did not mention this because it is an individual case, so one of the criteria that we had to meet the other countries is the issue of rule of law, and one EU country has given asylum to a former prime minister who had to go to prison for something. So that's another thing I didn't mention because now you're watching the exile paradox that former prime minister calls on the Bulgarian authorities not to act as they behave and give support to Macedonia, and I assume the Macedonian government to insist that these things are not the subject of negotiations, talks and that it is defined that this type of blackmail is not allowed if it is a blow under the belt, to say foul, so for the yellow card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10646	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Hajdukovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot today, but what's more important to me is what we haven't heard, what the answers haven't heard, and the questions are asked here. We have not heard the answers to many questions that will be very important and are already important for Croatia and not only for Croatia but for the Union as a whole. We have not heard whether there is a plan for what we will be if the multiannual financial framework is not adopted at the planned time. And I'm not talking about technical things about how the Union will finance itself, so there are mechanisms for that, but I'm saying it from the perspective of Croatia. We also have not heard whether there is a plan for the mitigation and resolution of the consequences of the non-agreed Brexit which is increasingly likely to be on the Croatian economy and on the Croatian budget. We have not even heard how to reconcile the ever-present introduction of lockdown in various EU Member States by calling for freedom of movement. We have heard that in Croatia we do not think about lockdown, and that is certainly commendable, above all, from the perspective of the economy. We also have not heard any comments about the functionality of the Schengen crisis as well as about the possible hodogram of Croatia's accession to the same space in light of the crisis, but also in light of the fact that we have met the technical conditions. We have not even heard whether there are estimates of the impact of meeting the EU's ambitious climate change objectives, so by 2020, I'm sorry, '30. That is, in 2050, the consequences of the Croatian budget and the economy. So, can we finance such an ambitious plan? We also did not hear when we will finally see a national development strategy in public consultation with the interested public, and not read it in the papers because obviously journalists have an advantage in accessing the same over this home that needs to be brought in eventually. We saw that there was, though, it's a good thing, but we didn't get any date. The prime minister, though, and when he gave the dates, it turned out they weren't exactly right. I'll just remind you that the legal deadline was until March 31st this year, now it's the beginning of November. We have not heard what Croatia or whether we will consider a large order remdesivir therefore a cure for the coronary virus, which the World Health Organization has negatively assessed or estimated to have no effect. Surely that money that would be focused on getting the drug...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10648	My colleagues, please, let's let colleague Hajdukovic speak normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10649	Thank you, Vice President. So we haven't even heard about it because surely money that isn't very insignificant, which will be spent on getting this medicine that has no effect on at least the World Health Organization could be spent on other ways and in other ways to resuscitate and help with the pandemic. The only concrete thing we've heard is that Croatia will not be deprived of EU funds due to the rule of law, and unfortunately I have to repeat it not because I want bad Croatia but because I am a realist, I'm not so sure. I was also talking about my reasons before what we need to think about first and foremost as legislators is that these reports will probably, so we are talking about the rule of law report will become annual or become some practice and it should be a guideline for us to actually be able to change Croatia, where problems exist, but we have to admit that our problems exist, for example in the judiciary and are not negligible and we need to be laxmus paper actually whether Croatia is directing and changing in the right direction. When we have a second report then we'll be able to, so empiricalally compare it to this first one and see if we've made any moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10650	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will now speak the esteemed representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10651	Thank you very much. Here is the debate, which the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, gave us, I see that you will address in final terms, the results have been empty since we entered the EU. You are originally from Tomislavgrad from Duvno, you know the railway from Sinj when it goes.../incomprehensible/... for Duvno there used to be a lot of dice, the school is now empty, therefore it is a key picture of the Republic, it is a demographic, and in the market and equality on the Croatian market it is hard for us to in this way servant ministers, the half-tronic relationship can mainly list two important things, we do not have the courage to do so yet your government has no courage, Davor Ivo Stier was trying to push through an exclusive economic belt which is our right, unfortunately this government did not have the power to do with regard to what interests the Italians, whom we do not know everything, but mainly our seas are not protected, we did not declare what we have by international law, it is a full application of an exclusive economic belt, and not some hybrid that we have today used exclusively by foreign fishing fleets among other Italians. We didn't protect the meaning of our fisherman, we didn't protect our farmer, if we had protected him today, we wouldn't have an empty village and peasants, it all falls into the water, all the stories fall into the water because simply when we look at how much milk we've produced until we get into the EU, how much today, you'll see how many other products we've never exported again. imported 3 billion agricultural products. So the import lobby handles its own, we didn't protect the agricultural land. We did a 3-year moratorium extension after my entire term here I was talking about, so just before the election you did until 2023. Agricultural land we have the right if other members have banned the sale of agricultural land to foreigners it has the right and Croatia. Croatia has a million-and-a-half hectares of agricultural land, unfortunately only 7,000 hectares of irrigated unfortunately are not self-sufficient and unfortunately the ministers are sent to our farmers to shut down water and electricity in their OPGs such as castellan greenhouses where we now have 5 million tonnes of this agricultural product, domestic products. And now we're going to import it, let one, two days off, no pickles, no salad, whose interests have not fallen from Mars. As far as greening is concerned, as far as greening policy is concerned, I will repeat once more the Minister of Environment and Energy Coric has done more damage, more pests than, I don't think I can describe the disaster at all. So look what Krš Padedeni did, see what about waste management, chaos, chaos, here in my Split-Dalmatia County where the largest city of Split we have chaos. He closed up the Vrgorak trash to transport to Sinj, now and the synj dump the entire Cetinski end of the transport closed, and in the dump on Lečevica Center for Waste Management the clean environment, 30 million kunas have been invested in over the past 15 years, so no more di-disposed waste, and closed all dumps. We have a huge problem with waste management. And when we speak in these lights, I am glad that your representatives praise you. There may be some reason, but I will tell you the result of all that praises us, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. The appointment of significant environmental functions when mentioned is purely party. Here at Krk National Park a woman with two party cards was appointed one HDZ, one HNS is a fact. Here is also the last competition in a health home in Split-Dalmatia County who will be employed by the HNS councilman's county daughter seems to me, regardless of I think I have nothing against children, but it is so obvious and destructively affecting our society that it is my fault that you killed democracy, that you did not allow an electronic vote, I am sorry that there is no colleague Bačić here who told my colleague that we are telling the truth, and we are telling the truth. You are the government that spat 400,000 people in Croatia in a face that has collected signatures for the Istanbul Convention and for a referendum and for a referendum on electoral law and you are graves of democracy. Unfortunately, I wish it were different, but there's nothing else I can say... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10652	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Gordan Grlic Radman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10653	... Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen representing HS. [[Specially enabled.]] At first I would say and listen all day here and respect your comments, questions, your views were more than arguments and seeing that the prime minister was here all day all morning and knowing him, knowing and knowing myself I can actually tell you that in these 30 years you never had a better prime minister who has only one face, so I refuse any charges that the Prime Minister would therefore go to Brussels with one face and then come back with another face. That's the point of view. And what he would bring or how he represented Croatian interests should be recognized and seen. But that's what they're talking about. And ultimately, Croatian citizens said that on July 5th of this year. Here when we're talking, when we're talking, I'd like to... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Mr. Hajdukovic spoke several times and repeated some words taxingly what should be done in the government, but it seems to me he wasn't convinced of what he was saying but by repeating it the second time he said probably from the position of the party in opposition. The rule of law, corruption, the media, freedom of the media, Schengen, the multiannual financial framework, maybe we should start right from there because it seems to me now and in the end you were also talking about it, you also mentioned Brexit, lockdown, date for the National Development Strategy, etc. There were several interventions about the rule of law, and I would only confirm that, if you followed it well, so it's actually about general reports. For the first time in May 3rd, then, before that, as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs responsible for coordinating other bodies of the state administration, we collected everything that was actually done on the subject of the rule of law, it was actually the first report that was published in September. So a general report was brought in, but also a report for every country where a distinction was made between what was well done and where there are still room for progress. Croatia is not particularly isolated as a country that has any problems when we talk about the rule of law, but what is for your information is that there is an ongoing regulation that provides for exactly one condition when European funds are withdrawn which will also have a certain impact on the impact of the implications and on the breach of the rule of law. As far as corruption is concerned, it is also evident, and the prime minister said that this government does not know the meaning that we do not know corruption knows neither the party nor the nation, and you mentioned ministers. In fact, in your government, the SDP government seemed to me more ministers who had to go because of corruption than it was with the HDZ government ministers, and the fact that you didn't even win the election, and the HDZ won again on July 5th, and it was too powerful. We have 16 ministers with the prime minister today, so that's 17 HDZ ministers, that's actually talking about the perception of citizens who gave a vote to HDZ and perception is always the closest reality. It is a subjective reflection of objective reality, and the reality is because you mentioned even Yanaf. Okay, you mentioned and you may not have remembered that your party president once mentioned that Mr. Kovacevic was a member of your party's SDP. So here's what we can talk about now. So we tie up, tie up means to a party that was a member of Mr. Kovacevic. She also spoke to the distinguished Mrs. Dark Taritash. That's good when we talk about foreign policy as well. Surely there is also a Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Policy. Therefore, there are various, so you have also talked about taking part in the strategy on foreign policy, on the Council, on the European Parliament, but speaking means about our foreign policy implemented by this government then surely we have a direction, we have which rests on geopolitical interests when it comes to the European Union, when it comes to the Western Balkans, Southeast Europe, China, Russia and how our foreign policy is consistent with European policy. Mr. Bully also spoke about the 5G network, but the prime minister replied to you. So that's experimental for you, we have four cities plus two smaller cities. So no one has a 5G network concession. The village, to preserve the village, is exactly our strategy. To open more jobs, reduce, actually reduce departure, invest in the village and is just going to the prime minister in Brussels where we can boast with 23 billion euros together with a multi-annual financial framework and recovery. We've never gotten it before. Therefore, we can actually praise the very efforts of our prime minister to negotiate to get those funds. Mr. Tomaševic also spoke about the report. I'm glad you praised that report. I think it's okay that the Croatian government is there and the Croatian Prime Minister is transparent and wants to report on his activities, about the 3 councils that happened three times in October with an emphasis actually first of all on the fight against COVID-19 pandemics and sure as hell there will be no lock-up. But Croatia here when you mentioned what Croatia has done and then I must really mention your criticism of the Croatian presidency where we received great commendation, but unfortunately I do think that the SDP was just here to sleep through that time of our chairmanship. Germany that has now taken over the precedent is currently working on the basis of our experience. As far as the national development strategy is concerned, you will therefore, as the prime minister has promised, it will be discussed safely. So he told you a date but there are deadlines that are mandatory and we respect it. You also mentioned Brexit. Brexit we hope, it is a matter of negotiations, but we hope for a neat exit at the end of the year, and the Croatian Government we also communicate our ministry on the web. We're also communicating with the owners on the pages. Whether or not there will be any implications for the Croatian economy, Croatia will not. We will not feel important Croatia as the last member, we will not feel the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. It's about the multiannual financial framework. All right, yeah, you even mentioned mechanisms. But why should you be so worried about the multiannual financial framework? Well, the European Union is a composition of 20 member states. Well, surely the European Union's concern is what will happen with the multiannual financial framework. So we will not actually allow the European Union to be destroyed by the multi-annual financial framework. There are, of course, mechanisms. So here we have one, let's say one is an example that is, if we don't get, say, theoretically, not to bring in a multi-annual financial framework, there's a possibility that 1/12 expenditure or a monthly budget from the previous month, or that some other mechanisms are actually being used for the next month. Surely the European Union will not allow any... crisis. So the question is now... in the European Parliament, and I think we're optimistic about that. When Mr. Bulj is still talking about Tomislavgrad and I was just yesterday like that man who was born in the Danube region and who is interested in actually also life in my homeland, but not only because of my homeland, but also because of the care and concern for the Croats in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, I can tell you that I have come back, with the data that 33062 inhabitants live in the Danube region. And surely we certainly can't boast that he lives there now like he did 40, 50 years ago. And even in your neighborhood, people are also these regular migrations, people are the most out of those 60s because they didn't invest in those parts. Now you need to see, now you need to come to the Danube end so you can see that potential of Lake Bush, so you can see what HEP wants to do and what the projects are. First of all, projects where Croatia as a member of the European Union will hold an intereng project programme where Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro both exist and for 2025. Croatia and BiH, we will work precisely on projects to revitalise not only this end but also all other areas that are along the border with the Republic of Croatia. So be assured that this government, the Croatian government, all these ministers therefore have only one person working in the interest of Croatian citizens and the Republic of Croatia. You know, in your life, I had, I didn't know when I lost, I found out, you're actually not even aware of what you have with this Croatian government that works in the interest of Croatian citizens, who work in the interest, who kept their jobs in the Republic of Croatia. This is an experience that has never existed before with Covid pandemic 19, so you should actually have recognized this truly devastating scenario that could have happened in Croatia as it was in Italy or Spain. But, well, it really should be taken into account and respected in fact what the Croatian government and Croatian ministers are doing in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens. Mr. Bauk was also talking about, and he's not here right now, so it's hard for me to talk about the Bunjevci and the Bulgarians because he mentioned a group of friendships that he should be in charge of or he is in charge of. The rebels are otherwise a sub-sidic group so that Croatian or what they say is a small branch of the Croatian people. There are rebels in Vojvodina for your information, there are also in Hungary. Bulgarians, therefore, who are vetoing and has certain objections to the history of Northern Macedonia in the language, etc., certainly that Croatia, which has taken a strong stand for opening accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, will certainly talk to Bulgaria when it comes to one support or conversation, dialogue between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia in order to contribute to the position that Northern Macedonia, which has been waiting for the start of accession negotiations with the EU for 5, 15 years now not to experience one another again, another turning back rather than just to open a perspective for the start of negotiations with the EU. It seems to me most important to this I would have said messages from today, and you are here today from 9 and 30 and I with you and the Prime Minister who is also from the very beginning, I do not know or rarely which state in the EU where actually the Prime Minister has actually been from the very beginning, he has been here, he has shown respect for you, he has listened to your comments, the debate here has been presented about the three meanings of the European Council, and in your discussions I have heard mostly were either programming or comments on some other topics and indeed Mr Kujundzic HDZ is a democratic party, and you have spoken of your actually more program should not question this because the question is also someone answered about sovereignty, sovereignty, which is actually sovereignty if it is understood as, as, as, as a legal concept, he is not really a synonym for unlimited freedom of action and behaviour. This should also take into account certain international legal objectivity and the issue of taking over certain contractual obligations. We don't live alone in the world, but we're surrounded by other countries, so that's how you defined your own party, and the thing is, you represent the whole country and all its citizens. So I'm glad you took part in your debate, it's an honor and pleasure to be able to thank you on behalf of the Prime Minister for your debate, but that doesn't mean that we've all accepted what you've been talking about, but our report, if you've read it, I think it's boldly talking about our activities that are aimed at protecting the interests of Croatian citizens. I would also tell Mr. Bulj when he mentioned Tomislavgrad because Mr. Bulj from the neighboring town of Cetino, I was returning to this very end of yours last night and we even came down to your Sinj briefly, I would only say that the 15 November elections in BiH, these are breaking moments for their survival and now the Croats need our support more than ever in BiH. The situation with Croatian status, the status of Croats in BiH is not good, the electoral law currently in place is harmful to the position of the Croatian people in BiH and is seeking changes, and we are determined to support the amendments, i.e. the implementation of the Constitutional Court's rulings and amendments to the electoral law, as advocated by the Croatian National Assembly and Croatian leaders in BiH. More than ever, Croats in BiH have the support of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions. We have had different periods because we are not sure about our policies, I can't tell the HDZ but some other governments that in 2000 even gave up special relations which, which were stimulated by the Dayton Agreement, made it even more difficult to make their position in BiH more difficult, and then, of course, the question that Croatia meant BiH was among the first to recognise. Thanks to Croatia, all the plans envisioned by Cutiller's plan later Vance-Owen's plan were always Croatia that supported it, and unfortunately from the bench of this Assembly there were votes that Croatia was even an aggressor to BiH. So right now we need national unity here in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the position of the Croatian people in BiH. BiH is a biological reserve of the Croatian people and it is important that they stay there. I think there's also your help to the precious opposition parties, so when it comes to national interest then we have to be one thing, and the other is when you have certain particular interests, that's your thing. This is what I would like to conclude and thank you again for today's debate and thank you for hearing the report presented by Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10654	Thank you very much. There are more replicas on your display. Please remain Mr. Minister here. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10655	Thank you very much. Minister, you say you were in Sinj, now I don't know which one you're eating black or any wine or both after this speech how you praised the government. You've given me so much credit that I can't assess it at all, otherwise it's good wine in Sinj and the Cetina region, especially... I would just like to tell you briefly, the Cetina landscape last year was less enrolled in the first grade 42 or 20% less 2 classes, only last year, and in the last 10 years from 800 enrolled first graders this year on 400 enrolled first graders. I was talking about the road to Kamenskoga to Tomislavgrad, and using exclusively the people of BiH with whom I fought because I was at war for a year, mainly from Tomislavgrad, a lot of people used only for pre-election purposes to vote for HDZ on that part, I invite them to vote for other political Croats there are other parties because so far the only one of you Zoran Milanovic gave... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10656	Thank you very much. The next replica will be a respected representative of Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10657	I'm sorry, I couldn't understand you because you were talking through the mask, so the only thing I heard was them leaving. But you are also responsible for caring for the stay of the Croats. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10658	Don't shout from the bench. It's a matter of basic jurisdiction. Dear Representative Fabianic. You're getting a second warning from your colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10659	I wasn't going to replicate, but here's the report, the report always gives a reason to talk about everything, and at least the report, and then it goes to bid. We have a prime minister who was at the meeting, we got a report on the board I even voted for, and then when the main debate is then suddenly I can't help but change my mind when I look at what the debate is because it's kind of very disappointing to me personally. First because it's being predicated, secondly because it's saying things that are essentially and aren't perhaps here and places, especially if we take the constitutional principle of presummation of innocence and it's been said of a corrupt one government, a corrupt other government, there are more indications for one, it's been six years for the other, and there's not been any confirmed indictments. But if we're going to talk documentedly... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10660	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10661	Thank you very much, Mr. Fabianic. I was actually just reacting to exactly what Mr. Hajdukovic said and I had to make some comparisons if I can't let the HDZ Croatian government get away with it. ... I didn't say anything else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10662	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10663	I only said there were more ministers in the SDP government who were indicted because no one was eventually charged with the Croatian HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10664	The next replica is the respected representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10665	You mean right now, there's still time. So here's what I'm going to say, in conclusion, is that now I understand why the Prime Minister has been sitting here all day, not out of respect for the Parliament, but out of fear of what else it might look like, but unfortunately I have to tell you that the Prime Minister probably didn't listen to you right now, he's not even here anymore, I don't really believe that he would follow this on TV, and that you've worked so hard in every sentence to mention him at least three times in words that wouldn't be embarrassed and the biggest fans when they talk about their rock stars. That's how you talk about the Prime Minister. The other thing, what you're from what you said can get out, most things are incorrect. You can't say that lockdown will certainly not be because we don't know what the conditions will be, even the Prime Minister didn't say that. You cannot say that you have learned Germany how to chair the EU. The only quote that may have been somewhat accurate is when you said that the only corruption... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10666	Thank you very much. Minister Grlic Radman's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10667	Well, here's the honourable lady MP I can tell you well, I agree I couldn't say in principle, but I can tell you really. On July 1st, when I taught Heiko Massu's baton to the German minister, he said the EU was in a difficult situation where the countries turned to themselves, but Croatia recognized it and managed to reconcile the behaviour of those countries. I am telling you the Croatian translation of German words, so Croatia managed to coordinate the behaviour of EU member states, and that was a very difficult period. So I'm telling you what the German minister told me not only to me but he said it publicly on the press and he said it, he really praised it, it wasn't a curtous word, and I can tell you the other ministers because we got a lot of letters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10668	The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10669	Well, I have to admit that this debate today was somewhat normal and I think that, even in some segments and content, I don't think you should have had in this final presentation to go to some standard rhetoric type we didn't get the election so now the test and some such situation that the government was more corrupt, etc., but good. I mean, you're lucky it's in the final presentation, or else that's how you started the report. I think you'd argue another five, six hours longer. What, I'm going to end up constructively anyway because that's how I started. So Article 7 means the Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Assembly in European Affairs allows the Committee on European Affairs to seek the Government to assess the impact of European regulations. By now, as far as I know, it's never happened. I wonder if you as foreign minister will mean that if such a conclusion comes from the Committee on European Affairs really comes to an assessment of the impact of the regulations, for example on the European... regulation or someone else... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10670	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10671	Thank you very much for your contribution, and now we'll see about that. I, I, no, I understood how to look.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10672	I asked if it came from the Committee on European Affairs to assess the impact of European regulations whether the Government would support it and make such an assessment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10673	I don't know what you said, so I thought you wanted affirmative in terms of whether, well, thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10674	The next is the replica of the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister of Polemics seems to have developed around this conditionality of using funds and respecting the rule of law, and now if memory has served well since the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia only once was seriously close to some sanctions it was in the second half of 2013 related to the law that changed the conditions for the execution of the European arrest warrant, but must also be said the Croatian democracy was mature enough both the authorities and the opposition and the general public that the situation had changed again so that there was no sanctions. Of course that doesn't mean that we don't have to have a lot of work today, that all countries have, we have, and we have to do it, but I don't think there's any fear of such a conditionality that rule of law is something that we all have to stand up for together all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10676	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the respected representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10677	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in your response to Mr. Bulj, who often highlights the statistics on how many schools in Croatia are closed, so I would take the opportunity not to know Mr. Bulj is not there He often said that in my Imot region he had closed down 20 and, over 20 schools and said that over 5,000 students were less. [[No, he's not gone.]] However I wish, we are here in the Croatian Parliament, we must speak the truth, in fact I have searched and explored the exact statistics of '69. Until '89. There are over 4,000 students in the Imot region, and since '89. So far, it's 1,320. And that's a hell of a lot. But please, let's not get the wrong information. So 4 about 4,000 students are less in 20 years since '90 than '69. Until '89, and 1,328 students were less in 30 these years including war.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10678	Thank you very much, thank you very much, I can see that my colleague Kujundzic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10679	Is a violation of Rules of Procedure 328(2), respected Mrs. Busic for 14 years I worked in the education sector thus absolutely wrong. It's enough information that the Imotian landscape has been in recent years...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10680	I'm sorry, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10681	It's a false allegation, and it's not false, so in the last 14 years...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-03-0.u10682	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. If we were to share, if the breach of the Rules of Procedure were to be considered here not telling the truth, lying, etc., I'm afraid it would end right away with my work, very quickly. So there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure and this one. Please, Comrade Busic. That concludes this debate, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Have a good evening. Session adjourned in 20.10 hours.
