ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188265	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs are in front of you a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund for and members of their families for 2017 and 2018. As you know, the Croatian Defence Fund was founded in 2005 under the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families. The main objective is to help the Croatian defenders and members of their family financially and to provide funds to invest in social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The property of the fund consists of shares or shares of companies reserved for Croatian defenders and members of their families from the privatisation of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as donations. The total fund is 539.780 members, all Croatian defenders and members of their families, or heirs to those killed and dead, and currently there are 276,867 Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The fund is by its nature an open investment fund and has no legal personality. The activities, purpose and structure of the fund are regulated by the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, and the Fund has its own statute. The fund is headed by a management board with 9 members appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the minister responsible for issues of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in the position of the chairman of the Fund's board of directors. As a result of the learned number of difficulties in applying the then applicable Fund Act in 2018, normative activities have been approached with a view to the adoption of a new fund law. The analysis of the existing situation found that comprehensive interventions are needed in the existing legislative framework governing the fund in order to ensure its transparent and efficient business and to address the problems or legislatively addressed situations that appear in practice for the allocation of shares, investments and distribution of assets and other situations which have not been resolved by the applicable law. As regards the 2017 report, the Croatian Defence Fund held on to stability and liquidity during 2017 and in due time provided all the necessary funds for the payment to members or the scholarship fund and the foundations of Croatian defenders. The Fund made a net profit of €23.3 million in 2017 compared to €22.5 million in 2016. As in previous years, the Management Board shall be 1/3 of the Fund for, in accordance with Article 29. The law on the Croatian defenders' fund is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families, 6 million kuna has been forwarded to the scholarship fund, while 1,507,496,23 kuna has been paid to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The total assets of the fund on 31 December 2017 were 923.1 million kuna. The members of the Fund Management Board actively participated in the drafting of the draft fund law bill adopted in 2018, which adopted significant changes not only in the work of the Management Board but also in the functioning of the Fund itself. The Fund's Management Board continued its initiative towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia to transfer to the Republic of Croatia without any payment of the shares of those companies when regulatory and future privatisations of public undertakings owned or partly owned by the Republic of Croatia. As regards the 2018 report, the new Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and the Homeland War and the members of their families, which he adopted among other things, came into force. We have included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Assets. The larger share of net realised profits from investments is intended to finance social and humanitarian measures to improve the socioeconomic position of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as well as members of their families. So so far, one third of the net profit has been paid into a trust fund or a scholarship fund, in the new law we have regulated that one half of the net profit goes for social measures i.e. for the trust and which has also taken over the grant fund's commitments, 1/4 goes to the distribution of dividends to the fund members and 1/4 to reinvestment. A long-standing heir problem has been solved, and the outstanding dividends that represent the obligation or burden for the fund have been untraced. The dividend that a member of the fund does not raise in the current year until 31 December of the current year shall be converted into its corresponding share of the fund. In this way, the assets will remain in the fund only in another form or will increase the share of each individual member of the fund that has not raised its dividend. During 2018, the Croatian Defence Fund retained stability and liquidity and provided the necessary funds for payment to members in good time. In 2018, the Fund made a net profit of €28.8 million compared to €23 million, €23.3 million from the previous year, which is an increase of something, a net increase of 23.3%. The Fund also distributed net profits from 2017 total assets of the Fund on 31 December 2018 amounted to 837 million kuna which was less significant than the previous year, and this is solely because of the huge decline in the value of the shares of Croatian Telekom which account for 97.62% of the assets, the total assets of the fund. I'd like to tell you in a short time what's been done through the fund in the past since it was founded. So, the companies in the portfolio of the Croatian Defence Fund are Hrvatski Telekom so I said 97.91% share total, Kutjevo d.d. 1.65, Vjesnik d.d. 0.28%, Karlovačka banka d.d. 0.03%. Let me just tell you what the new law has given us how much the assets of the fund have increased significantly since 2018, so far by 2020. So in 2018, the net assets of the Fund were finally 698 million with all these moves through a new law and an increase in the normal strengthening of Tcom shares, today the value, the net value of the assets of the 996 million kuna fund, which is 300 million kuna higher. The net profit was also increased from 2017 to 23.33 million kuna for 2019 will be 50.21 million kuna, which is 100% higher. Also the value of the share, the fund's stakes have increased significantly, just to tell you that since the fund was established through the fund was funded and the scholarship fund has totalled nearly 90,000 children of Croatian defenders have been scholarshipd through the fund for which 422 million and 578 and 200 thousand kuna have been spent so far. Here, dear esteemed MPs and MPs so much of me for now, so during the debate we will answer your questions and any misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188266	I thank the Secretary of State, so let's go to the replicas now. The first one's next, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188267	Thank you very much. Secretary, we have a report for 2017 and 18, and most of these transactions mean in this report it took place in 2016, '17, '18, we are now half of the 3rd month 2020, and we are discussing something that happened here and the question is whether this practice should continue or whether the committee discussed it immediately in time, but it was not at the plenary session. My question is, the key question is, we know what happened when the SDP government was around Croatia's insurance only thing useful here I would repeat the same question always here. What about the transfer of new assets to the fund, are we dependent on Croatian Telekom HT regardless of how they can manage their profits, the personal question is the survival of the fund of transfer of the assets of certain companies owned by the state to the fund. What's up with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188268	Here's your answer. You want an answer? Yes, you can, you have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188269	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Since 2015, there has been no privatisation of a larger state-owned company, so there has simply been no possibility of a transfer. We normally in the Management Board of the Fund and the Ministry of Croatian Defence care to maintain the Fund and to strengthen and, in any case, if any more state-owned companies are privatised, we will surely ask that part of the share be transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188270	Second replica, dear colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188271	... [[The speaker is not enabled. The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188272	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188273	... However, it is certain that the Fund's Management Board takes care of the sustainability of the Fund, what you have said 2/3 of the funds are distributed through dividends and humanitarian purposes related to the scholarship and assistance of the Fund, and 1/3 has always gone to the reinvestment of the Fund, so that the Fund reconciles all its obligations to members and to the society that runs the Fund, so I think that, given the strengthening of shares and HT telecoms, I think we will hold the Fund at one high level that is needed for all these purposes for which it exists. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188274	The third replica of my colleague, Glasovic, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188275	... But I would only ask you this, when it comes to the Croatian forces, the HVO, now I have to ask it, it's circumstantial to the Fund, if there's any data at all from the Ministry of Defense as far as the HVO defender has committed suicide, I ask, people call me every day, some are desperate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The second question is, this red tape is where people have to look, and now they're sending it all over the offices endlessly, because you can get rid of that bureaucracy so that people get their solution faster, and the last question, is not about the Fund, but it's a moral, ethical question, you've still found a mass grave, you're working on it, you see, there at Zapresic, a mass grave where the Croats are buried, another one found at Bjelovar, who was buried there, who was doing it, do you have any intention of a press conference to see what happened in those dark times,... or communists here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188276	Thank you. Thank you very much. You want an answer? There isn't. All right, well, then it's time for a respected fellow voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188277	Thank you very much. I would ask you to explain to me, if at all possible, why the value of paying dividends to shares of the Croatian Defence Fund in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 was never less? Here I have payments here, so three funds have changed, i.e. Erste Invest, Addiko Invest and at the end of 2018 Intercapital Asset Management, meaning payment, for example, in this particular case in 2008, dividend 107.42 kuna, 2009 in the year 106.34, 2011 in 152.34 kuna, where we come to last year, for 2018. 22.97 kuna. What's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188278	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188279	.../Speaker shut up./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188280	Yeah, yeah, yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188281	.../Speaker shut up./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188282	Secretary of State, do you want an answer? Secretary of State? ... Please. [[jamour.]] Do you want an answer or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188283	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188284	All right, then we'll go to a colleague of Panenic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188285	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State, and it is also on the trail of this question as it was, is actually a question of governance of the Fund's very assets, meaning that depending on practically one share that is at 98%, the practical management of the entire Fund for the sake of a foreign company, means for Deutsche Telekom, they determine what the value will be, and then the question arises whether it is justified for the manager to have so much, so much compensation, if we finally see here from this previous issue that the profit drops depends on the price of the shares, and in fact the very meaning of the Fund is based on so much on the exposure of one single share. So instead of maybe looking at the efforts and states, and maybe moving on the market, if we had in the Fund and the shares that have more value, why wouldn't the Fund be a little bit more regretful in terms of quality shares than just HT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188286	Thank you. Would you like an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188287	... Look, we can't affect the portfolios of individual shareholders who are in the Fund, it's settled before through privatisation and so on, so we're working on a society that runs [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The Fund's business takes care of it, we have intensive talks with Deutsche Telekom, so we have good relations, so I think this is now the state of the Croatian Defence Fund that meets its purpose and purpose, which is why it is established, that it is quite fine. [[What are you asking me?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188288	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas, just a minute, Comrade Maras, what do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188289	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, for two reasons, of course related to this Act. It is amazing that representatives of the Croatian Defence Fund did not explain to their colleague Glasovac as if they did not know and were not aware of the fact that the payment or dividend on the shares of the defenders owned by them, in 2018 15 times less than the previous years, means 22.97 kuna. So the people here who come to give us the report are unable to answer the simplest question that Croatian citizens are interested in and who are interested in Croatian defenders who have those shares. Instead of 300,00 kuna in 2017, 22.97 kuna was paid. And then we ask the people of the Fund here to tell us why it's the reason, they don't know. And that's something that's inadmissible, and that's why we have to consult. And one more thing is inadmissible colleagues and colleagues, when you see what we are discussing this week in HS, every honor to the glyphosates of colleagues of Bulja, every honour to the amendments and additions of the Insurance Act, the agenda is never more thin, never weaker, and, I would say, without any real topics that Croatian citizens are struggling with, and what should be discussed in HS is also this crisis that is happening now around the coronaryvirus, the German Parliament discussed yesterday. Mr. President, Croatian citizens are interested in how the Croatian government relates, how it will help them in particular and the economy, we need a session to discuss how Croatia will prepare for the coming crisis. That's what we need right now, not glyphosate, not professional [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]] Retirement and certain... [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188290	Thank you, colleague Maras. I'll have a break by 11 o'clock. Thank you very much. It's 10.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188291	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] We're going back to work. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. Representative Mosta's club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188292	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Before us the report, as the secretary said, on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund and their family members for 2017 and 2018, however, most of the transactions and everything else that is important for these reports happened in 2016 and 2017. We're halfway here, so now it's May 3rd. In 2020, and we need to discuss something that happened now, three, four years ago. So we have to ask ourselves here, we have to be here now, so we have to ask a question that makes any sense at all about something, about reports, given this kind of time-out, regardless of what this kind of report is legally required of the ministry. As visible, the HS War Veterans Committee discussed this report in the 11th month. 2018 and 9 months Member States If the Parliament had discussed these points then, behind the board, it might have made some sense, but like this, there's absolutely no big sense, which means the blame is on the President of the Parliament, i.e. Those who determine the agenda that after 3 years the report that was supposed to be now we have him here and we are discussing the report that was three years ago. The new law should note here that the new Law on Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their family that came into force on 17.11.2018, Art. 46th Prescription. The Management Society of the Croatian Defence Fund is obliged to issue an information prospectus of the Fund by 31.12. of the previous year by the latest 34th year. Under the old law, this obligation was prescribed until 31.3. every year. It means before it does now. It is normal to conclude that in about a month and a half, we will know what will happen in the Fund in the past year when we speak for 2019. We now know what happened with the Fund 2018, so let's say that the HT dividend for 2018 was in the amount of 10 kuna and that it will be paid according to the Fund 21.5.2019, and we know the number of Croatian defenders' shares in ownership, 5 million, about 5.5 million HT shares, and it is not difficult to calculate now what that amount was. We know that the dividend of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2018 is 3.82 kuna per share, which provides a little more than 7 million kuna. The payment began on 26.7.2019, based on these knowledge, it is not difficult to calculate that now the Croatian Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families will be paid just over 14 million kuna. It's clear to us that this distribution was made under the new law and we see that there's no more for, like, a scholarship fund because it took over the Foundation. I think that this reporting is completely useless and that we need to change it, so these two reports that were on the agenda today could simply have been taken into account now because we're talking about something that happened a few years ago. The Ministry of Defence, i.e. The Fund sent it on time, however, obviously in the Croatian Parliament it was stuck somewhere, the board did it, which is why I don't know. But since we're discussing this, it's only useful to repeat it here, i.e. to ask that question, and each year it is asked in these reports, in each report, the problem of transferring new assets to the Croatian Defence Fund is to remind. At a meeting of the HS War Veterans Committee of 16.11.2018, we pointed out that the structure of the assets of the Fund in which the shares of HT are dominant, long-term bad and dangerous by the operations of the Fund. That's why he asked himself what would happen, and that's why we asked, that's when we spoke on the board, and we warned about it, which, with the HT's business fund, wouldn't pay off dividends for any reason, which is in the fund's business, which is very possible, if their administration said we're not paying off the shares, we're not paying off, we're going to reinvest the dividend. And that's the key question that's being asked because it's too much HT addiction. The answer is defeat for... which we need to keep in mind that we know who is the majority owner of HT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This issue will be current today and will be current and future. This is why I ask this question once again, and for one reason only, because we have to watch what happens to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia because we remember that Croatia during the SDP government, Croatia's insurance was privatised, the shares had to be transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund 7%, as we know it did not happen because the law says it can and does not, so they interpreted. So it's well-willed for the government to transfer the shares to any Croatian insurance, and that's not why this fund is HT-dependent. And that is what we are witnessing, that other companies owned by this when we talk here about Croatia insurance or when we talk about HEP or other companies are generally questionable about the existence of this fund because here everything depends on the business policy of HT. They can pay the dividend, but they don't have to, they can reinvest the dividend, I don't know di. So, I think this is too much of an addiction and I'm asking again whether this fund is going to be revived or whether this fund is actually planning to leave itself essentially dependent on companies owned by the Republic of Croatia in privatisation to transfer you to this fund, you share. At the time, I remember these discussions reacted strongly to the SDP's opposition at the time, criticising HDZ, and I remember these conflicts, I was not in the assembly, but I know that there was a war on the part of the Croatian insurance of Slavko Linić, who had no intention of transferring the shares to the Croatian Defence Fund and then it was the blame of the government to break the laws, that it was against the interests of Croatian defenders. However, the question now arises why not pay now, but now that the opposition is in the position of the majority, why not join you into the Croatian Defence Fund and do you even think and think whether or not you can even see the meaning of the government's strategy? Because we need to remember that Prime Minister 2017 is. That's it for Christmas, that's it. 2016 announced that it would transfer i.e. that he would buy INU by privatising HEP, it was this strategic one that would buy out INA, return to Croatian property, meaning such statements were made. Of course, nothing has happened so far because selling and giving HEP 25% of the shares would have happened to HEP what happened to INA. So this fund is dependent solely on HT, that the SDP government did not then have Croatia's insurance done nothing, so neither did this government on the settlement of this fund nor the government of Andrej Plenkovic. If you can deny me the honourable secretary or say something that's going on about new stakes in the fund, it would be good for the public to know if the Croatian defenders, members of that fund, have anything new to do with it. We have no information, so as SDP's government acted then, Slavko Linic, HDZ criticised them, but at the same rates as Slavko Linic continued the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188293	The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188294	Thank you very much, Vice President. Our colleagues and colleagues today are discussing the report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for 2017 and the report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2018, which the HDZ Representatives Club will accept. When discussing topics related to Croatian defenders, it is important to highlight. First, this is the first government of the Republic of Croatia in which two Croatian defence ministers, wartime commanders, have earned their general rank on the battlefield. Secondly, the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is led by defence population data on budget allocations, which is that the growth in budget allocations from year to year is growing. Thirdly, during the term of this government and this convocation of the Croatian Parliament, numerous acts related to the preservation of the dignity of the Homeland War and the Croatian defenders themselves have been adopted. Thus was passed the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, the entire Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar by the Place of Special Homeland Pitet, the 18th November was declared on the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Homeland War and on the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Vukovar and Škabrnja, and on 30 May on the Day of Statehood. The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families was established on 12 April 2005 with the aim of financial assistance to defenders and members of their families. The property of the fund consists of shares or shares of companies and cash amounts reserved for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from the privatisation of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as donations. The activities, purpose and structure of the fund are regulated by the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. In 2018, a new Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and their families entered into force, in which changes were made to the structural changes of the trust management board, which aim to achieve a more quality management of its duties, and a greater share of the net realised profits from investments to finance social and humanitarian measures to improve the socio-economic position of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Instead of the previous third, half the amount is now going to this end. On 31 December 2017, the total assets of the fund amounted to 923.1 million kuna. Get the fund in 2017. It was 23.3 million kuna, which is an increase of 3.5% compared to 2016. The value of the stake was €467,35. As in previous years, a third of the fund was paid to the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders, a third was planned for the distribution of members of the fund and a third for reinvestment. Total assets of the fund on 31 December 2018 amounted to 836.5 million kuna, profit of the fund in 2018. It was 28.78 million kuna. At the end of the reporting period, the value of the share was 424.36 kn. Newspaper 2018 is that from the realised profits from the investment is intended to finance social and humanitarian measures to improve the socioeconomic position of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Instead of the previous third now intended for this purpose, intended for half of that amount. From this point on, we believe that the Fund justifies its existence and the HDZ Representatives Club will support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188295	Representative Miro Bulj has come forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188296	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, he would ask for a 10-minute break on the issue, meaning Reports on the Croatian Defence Fund. I would say here that the fund is dependent on HT, on one company, that HDZ was opposed at the time when it was in the SDP government at the privatisation of Croatia Airlines that nothing was done by this government, that the companies that are privatised and what is being said all the time and I didn't get an answer from the secretaries, gave new companies and new shares of 7% of other companies, but silence. The same path was continued by HDZ. However, here we have now seen boasting with what has been done in this term of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, basically that of the HDZ Club, in essence what is not the subject of this law, however, okay when the conversation can be small and expanded. Here we see that you have boasted of the Vukovar Act as the place of a special homeland petite. Yes, you've passed that law, but with this law you've deepened, unfortunately, you've deepened the triumph of the great Serbian aggression di will not be banned by the great Serbian, Chetnic aggression and triumph and the victory of the crime is Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, you know what Cyrillic plates mean in Vukovar? That law did not resolve that question. Regardless of the referendum initiatives that were for the place of the special pitet to be declared and that in the city of Vukovar, the symbol of resistance, the Cyrillic plates would not be the triumph of a large Serb Chetnic crime. That's not settled. In fact, you have made the possibility of setting up Cyrillic plates with this law, and it is a mockery of the victims of Vukovar, with people who fought for Vukovar and left a great contribution to the defense, and the city hero doesn't deserve to wave a pamphlet for pre-election purposes, and you haven't solved the basic matter by that law, against Cyrillic plates. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188297	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's Agent Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188298	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He's been injured. 238, we are here discussing the Croatian Defence Fund, not Cyrillic plates. I'm nowhere in my discussion, and today I haven't heard anyone here say anything about Cyrillic plates. So we're discussing the Croatian Defence Fund. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188299	. .../Intruder: Representative Striker.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188300	/...of the well-being of that fund...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188301	.../Intruder: Representative Striker.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188302	...and what's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188303	.../Intruder: Representative Striker.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188304	...all well done. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188305	. .../Intruder:...I'm giving you a warning/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188306	I've got eight seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188307	No, it can't, I'm warning you, you used the Rules of Procedure Institute to replicate, which you know you have no right to. So, the second breach of the Rules of Procedure which has been requested has no purpose for the reason that I have given the warning, and you should be careful because at any time a representative can report for a break and explain it within two minutes, so that instead of the next time, just slowly, next time instead of through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can express your opinion on the topic at issue today, ask for a break. I'm setting a break in duration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188308	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President HS, you've injured the Rules of Procedure because you said that the MP could request a recess at any moment. However, Art. 3.St. 5. says the break is the time set for this Rules of Procedure to meet and consult the Club of Representatives on the point of established daily work for the meeting of the assembly. So here today we are discussing this item of the agenda the work of the Croatian Defence Fund, we have not discussed other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188309	Like this, I'd beg, just slowly, I'd ask counsel Shucker if something wasn't clear about what I said, to take a phonogram, so that you would listen precisely or read again what I said. Representative Bulj, you have requested a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you, I have made a warning so that the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you use it as a replica will bring you a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188310	Thank you very much, President. He's been injured. 238. No matter what the possibility of a warning is, but I think that the injured Rules of Procedure is if a colleague Strick in his injury to the Rules of Procedure said that he did not mention the Law in Vukovar by the place of a special pitet, not that he did not mention but boasted with the successes of Andrej Plenkovic among which he pointed out...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188311	.../Intruder: Representative Bulj.../
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188312	.../...that pamphlet.../
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188313	.../Intruder: Representative Bulj.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188314	/... who didn't do what.../
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188315	You can sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188316	...what he needed, bilingual records.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188317	...you've earned a warning. You did the same thing that Agent Strick did and you earned the same warning. While I am chairing, I will not allow you to use damage to the Rules of Procedure as replicas. Thank you for continuing, Mr. Schooker's violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188318	Yeah, you don't have to do makeup, but, Mr. Vice President, this isn't Agent Strick, this is Agent Strick. And therefore, listen to your phonogram, I just wanted to tell you, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188319	Agent Shuker, what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188320	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188321	So you deserve it, and you've got a warning, and I'm sorry, Agent Strike, here's an accent, and I'll keep an eye on the accent in the future. I'm setting a break by 11:30. It's 11:22 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:31 A.M.]] Before we give the word to another club of representatives, we have students and students of Bjelovar High School with us today, so I would like to offer a warm welcome to them with a round of applause. The club of representatives of the Independent Youth List has applied for participation in this debate. [[Applause.]] In their name will be spoken by MP Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188323	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Of course, here today, speaking of the Fund, we're not talking about anyone really the fund, but the Croatian Defence Fund, one of the topics that is sensitive in our society, and there are great expectations. The high expectations are from the very reports that come here towards MPs, of course, to the whole public and therefore, it is no wonder that in our discussions we are both critical or perhaps that we have much greater expectations, of course, while respecting that the Fund as such has one noble purpose than its very establishment and that it is doing so. What we really need to accept, which is that the defense population that has shares, shares actually in the Fund, is not itself aware of what it could actually manage, what it participates in. In some ways, they are passive, I would say that it is not only the Fund's task, that the Fund's manager manages the property, but also that it also stresses the value of the Fund itself and that it should raise the level of activity that those who have their interests are aware of how their interests, how with those assets that have in this Fund help Croatian defenders above all, their families, and in fact the whole society, and we miss it because we are slowly pretending as society or here representatives and this esteemed House that we are considering the Fund as well as any other fund, which is its statistics, successes, which was this year, next year, which will be in future time, so I think it's lost its own meaning. Of course, looking at the economic part of the Fund itself should and has already been said here today, it warns about the question of actual composition, it meets the Fund itself because this exposure to a single company, the Croatian Telecom, the stakeholders that it has there are actually putting us in a position where foreign trade society, Deutsche Telekom, makes its decisions as the majority owner of the Assembly, is actually sorting out the fate of the Fund itself. So, I think that we should think about and encourage the Croatian government and this Government of Andrej Plenkovic in future activities not only to think about selling companies but also to think about the fact that certain companies, which are primarily high-quality, that the stakes in these companies transfer to the Fund's assets, increases the value of the shareholders, they will automatically accept the Fund as some of the higher value and treat it with greater attention, therefore, the actual awareness of the value of the Fund itself will increase, and on the other hand, the assets that are more diverse, more quality, can provide more income because what has been pointed out today is actually being said that the dividend itself is slowly falling, that it has come to 20 kuna and it is really questionable when you send to someone a participant, a Croatian defender, it has actually received notice that what has been pointed out today, a colleague of the vote has actually said that it has come to 20 kuterna. I think it's actually the discrediting and value of the Fund, the discrediting and what the defenders have in it, and that it should also be taken into account in the distribution, if it really doesn't have any real value, that maybe as such it is more distributed to raise the value of the Fund itself than to go to such distributions that are too little value. What's crucial is, in fact, good at all of this, that the HT stock itself is relatively high quality. It provides through this year and certain contributions and thus achieves the purpose of the fund itself. But with what I've already asked in my question, at first it's the key that a society that manages the Fund can actually make it better. If it manages one share, if there is no possibility of more significant investment, there is actually no means that it would invest more significantly in other shares, there is not even a notice that some other assets will come into this, it all comes down to mere administration. So 0.5%, as far as I'm concerned, clearly how much the manager got, it comes down to just having to administer certain contacts in some share sale and so, I think it's actually very banal for one fund. I would say that, as safe as it seems to us, stable, but at some point in any instability that can shake up HT as a company, it's no longer the only company on our market, there are others, we can expect that the Fund is very quickly losing its assets, and that is one of the preconditions for making a decision on its liquidation. Let us not allow such a scenario to occur, we should already have a strategy, a plan, not only of the Fund, in fact, the Fund would have to have one strategy in its discussions on how to defend itself from possible negative influences, and one of the risks here is now and this crisis over the epidemic where it can affect the business business as well as HT and that they decide next year, given that we have had business problems, we simply will not distribute the dividend, but for the internal needs we will have and that is, immediately the fund comes into a significant problem, so that sometimes what seems to be long-term, and should be considered strategically, very quickly turn into a short-term decision that one needs to make, and of course, such a decision will be made by the current political authority and can expect significant political damage from that. So let us also consider the fund at one time and marketly, and what I said at the beginning, let us worry that the value of the fund is not only property but also the value of the fund in image and what is its purpose in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188324	The individual participation in this debate was reported by MP Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, who does not have a speech and loses his right to speak. A representative, Ivan Shuker, also signed up for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've reported for a debate exclusively invited by some debates in HS that unfortunately have nothing to do with what's the real situation with this fund. But let's start from the beginning. So when was the decision to establish the Croatian Defence Fund? What were the budgetary options then, and how much of the budget could be allocated to help Croatian defenders? And what was the budget of the Republic of Croatia? So, at the time of the decision on the establishment of the fund, already in the INA Privatisation Act, it was indicated that at the privatisation of INA 7% of the shares of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be transferred to the ownership of the Croatian Defence Fund. She also did it with 7% of HT shares. Next, the next major privatisations practically by 2014-'15. When Croatia was privatised, here is now privatised, sold part of Croatia's insurance, then there was a major dispute in this assembly between that side of the assembly and this side of the assembly where we from the HDZ Club felt that 7% of the shares of Croatia's insurance must be transferred to the Croatian defenders' Fund more to those processes of privatisation and capitalisation of the Croatian state than one majority part of Croatia's insurance practically came, I don't know how many there are now, 30th and someth of the ownership of Croatia's insurance. In the meantime, so through everything the fund has been carrying out, the fund has come practically and I think it is crucial to say that the complete assets of the fund are practically 97.5% of the shares of HT, HT and 2% of the other shares of three companies. And now they're asking, in my opinion, two basic questions. One thing is, with those 7% ownership, we don't have any more significant role in the HT stockholders' assembly, nor can we actually make decisions about how much dividends will be paid. But until this fund gets some new property, honestly, I'm asking myself what is the function of the Association for the Management of the Croatian Defence Fund? Because it is no longer that the company places funds on the market and thus generates the revenues of the fund as was the case when the shares of HT were sold and the fund received over two billion kunas of cash managed, placed on the market and thus the assets of the fund increased. Practically, I know it's a legal provision that a fund like this must have a management company, has its own board of directors. However, since it is defined as being financed from the fund and managed by a dividend that, part of the dividend, belonging to the Croatian Defence Fund, can be managed by the Croatian Defence Fund, in fact by a management board without a management society. That's one legitimate question that's being asked at the moment. So, one is a legal provision, and the other is whether the fund, tomorrow let the fund get 7% of the shares of Croatia insurance, will probably not sell those shares but will own them and will practically finance certain activities based on the law on which the Croatian Defence Fund was founded. So these are some of the questions that should simply be answered and well that, when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, he said what he had said in the last 3rd year. this government and Minister Bear did as far as Croatian defenders' rights are concerned. It is good to say that because it is the cost of the state budget at the moment, as I have already said, when the fund was set up then, to pay off from the budget, it simply could not think because there was no financial resources. So these are all some facts that simply drive us to think in a different way, perhaps to think about how to make better use of these means of assistance and children of the dead Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders, and also to help those Croatian defenders who are in a particularly difficult social situation, who have found themselves on the sidelines of society not by their own fault. Simply, it was also a fundamental intention when it came to the establishment of the fund, which is what this fund wants to do because I would like someone to convince me, but if you have here that 97.5% of the assets of the fund are shares of HT, if the HT Assembly makes a decision how much a dividend per share will be, if it pays that dividend to the Croatian Defence Fund, then I don't see what the Fund Management Society can do anymore. So that's one logical question that's being raised. On the other hand, it's a legal obligation. Now, we need to see what we do here because if there is still such a situation without getting this, and we need to get some other shares I am for it, if I am a supporter of this while I was in the opposition, but I am a supporter and today that 7% of the shares of Croatia's insurance and tomorrow if there is privatisation, if there is a law on the privatisation of this HEP, with this opportunity to say, the law on the privatisation of HEP was adopted in this high home in 2002, together with the Law on the privatisation of INE, however, in 2010 I was then the Deputy Prime Minister, the government made a decision to put out of the power of the HEP Law because we then felt that it was something which is of great importance to the Republic of Croatia, that it should not be privatised, but it does not mean that tomorrow 7% of the shares of HEP should not be placed in the Croatian defenders's Fund. So, I support this report, I think that this report simply because of those who have given their lives, who have given part of themselves for the creation of the Croatian state, because of those who have done their best that today we can discuss in this assembly, when we are discussing these topics it simply must not have a political character. He can't have the character of the competition who gave more, who gave less. We have the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, we have the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, if we want to change anything and give anything more, anyone can give the bill a proposal and let it so we can see what anyone thinks. But I say in the debate I was offered the politicisation of a technical report, and also in the debate, I wanted to maybe throw on two topics that might need to be discussed tomorrow, because eventually these money that is being used as a cost of fund management can be used to help some of this population of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188326	The replica was reported by Agent Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188327	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you are certainly one of the veterans of Croatian politics, you have been mayor, minister, parliamentary representative and of all of us here I believe you are most familiar with the way of adopting certain acts, as well as debates in both the Government and the Croatian Parliament. When discussing a particular topic, of course, one is to expand the work and the current government and this mandate of parliament and comparison to the one before. Not for calling someone, but for seeing the actual situation and for improving the situation where possible in that sector. Here, just so much one debate about that relationship from before and with those numerous warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188328	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188329	Thank you. I am therefore apostrophe of your debate by withdrawing the parallel from 2005 when the law was passed and when a decision was made on the establishment of the fund. So it should simply be pointed out what the government has done over the past 3 years as regards the rights of Croatian defenders, so rights, not as some like to impose privileges, because no one has gone to Homeland War for privilege, all have gone with one motive to defend their home, their family and their homeland. And it should simply be on all of us when we are discussing the rights of Croatian defenders because any other debate if this is not on our mind will lead us in some wrong direction because some people today don't mind that they still have the pensions of 20 and so many thousands of NOB members, but they are disturbed by the rights of Croatian defenders, people who gave themselves first in defence and the creation of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188330	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188331	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you that this discussion on the Defence Fund's business report should serve us towards, the debate is directed to improve the status of the fund and to improve the status of defenders because, through this, the business of this fund can be achieved in a certain way. It bothers me and our defenders that because of the bad laws and the non-application law, the value of the stake fell from some initial 750 kuna per share now to 451 and let's see from the dividend's payout report, it's down to about 100 and some kunas, and it's just a bad example of how it's managed by the defense fund and it's certainly not good that it comes to paying off scholarships for children of the deceased defenders and children, it's about 8 million kuna somewhere. They'll question us if we just stay dependent on the HT shares. As a matter of urgency, the law must be amended and new shares entered into the defence fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188332	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188333	Comrade Vlaovic, I really don't know how to respond to this replica. I've got two reports here in '17, '18. and the report says that the assets of the total fund are at the end of 2018. 836, and at the end of 2017. 923, so the difference has been paid over the year. So there's no mismanagement of the fund. Neither can it be said that the fund management company, nor the board of directors have worked badly. However, the stock exchange and the market determines the HT stock, so you, these people have nothing to do with it, and so I say it's not good to say it in the assembly. Because many who listen do not know about these legal provisions, and he will think wrong. So it's not a problem in these people, but the problem is in the market, but that's why I'm saying if we depend solely on HT shares, then the question is whether we need a company to manage this fund. That's what this is about. And that's why I wanted to de-polomeze about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188334	Representative Babic called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188335	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your esteemed colleague Shuker may not have said some things to the end of your debate, but at first he did. So we cannot escape from the historical facts that occurred in the Republic of Croatia and the Homeland War or the noble decision to establish this fund. And that was actually the intention of this fund, to help the defenders of the Homeland War or the children of the victims. How and how it could have been more or less, so in any case more help to the fund itself was on us, on the fund members, but also on politics itself, what you were actually talking about. In my opinion, we should all be in the best interest here to actually strengthen that fund. Whether it will be strengthened through state-owned companies, as well as in what way, people who run the fund need to say more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188336	Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188337	Thank you very much. Well, that's why my fellow uncle's debate is on behalf of the club, and mine are very well summed up. My colleague Strick spoke with this fund of what the government is providing, that's that budget part, that's that legislative part that we're discussing in this high house. And I tried to tell you in this technical section what we're discussing today. So, we have a fund in which, based on certain government decisions, we've made certain assets, and that property is based on certain decisions, which someone has made again, spent all these years, and now we're in the situation we're in, and unfortunately, that fund has been, for almost 14 years. is not practically an increase in his assets, but that is why in the processes when it was privatization of Croatia's insurance or tomorrow if there is something with HEP, whether HEP is privatised or not, it can be made at a given time of decision, but I say we should also think about the model and how the fund is managed because the fund today looks quite different than it looked in 2007 and 2008. And these are simply facts that we, as Parliamentarians, have to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188338	Thank you. Representative Babic has applied for an individual debate on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188339	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleague Vukic, State Secretary with his associates. Here this morning, on behalf of parliamentary clubs, it was actually heard how and how this report of the Fund for 2017 and 2018 is considered. And more or less regardless of certain dissonances that should be in a single parliamentary life, it's actually about the fund's report itself. When looking at the report of this Fund for 2017 and 2018, therefore the total assets of the fund, i.e. the total profit of the fund, of course, can be seen to be in a slight, light fall. Since 2017, from 31.12 from 923 million kuna to this latest report, or reduced by some 86.6 million kuna. The fact is what I said in the replica, and in fact what my colleague Strick was saying on behalf of the club, so it was really thinking about things that were accumulated or that were happening with the defence population, that during the term of office of this, we were also thinking about the law, the Law on Defence, the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar by a special place of pitets, hospitals, etc. etc., but there was also a thought about the fund itself. So, in a few discussions, I remember last year, and this year it was thought of increasing the total assets of the fund. The way it can be done is actually always on the government. The government is the one who, by its political decision, can actually help the fund with the issue of numbers, the number of shares in some parts of privatisation. So, what is important to highlight, and that is, compared to 2017 and 2018. We actually had the law, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund was passed. This law, in fact, included everything needed for one fund, including increasing the assets of the fund, its availability, or in fact what the fund should do as such to succeed in the future and have greater assets, and thus greater profits, which is its very intensity. So, to ignore the fact that, through the 1/3 fund, the funding goes to, to pensions, 1/3 for profit, and 1/3 for the members of the fund, or 1/3 for the reinvestment of the fund itself, are the intentions that the fund itself should only strengthen and those who are beneficiaries of the fund in all of this. So, and what I said, to ignore the fact of historical fact, what actually happened to us during the Homeland War, the way that the defenders themselves lived through this situation and in the situation of privatisation, negative connotations in society and all of what may have been negative was actually a noble decision on the establishment of this fund. Therefore, talk about the 2017 Fund report. (a.k.a. 2018) is desirable and good, but keeping in mind that this fund should be strengthened and that the Government is the one to think, one or another, thinking that the fund in any subsequent privatisation is actually only stronger or that its assets are increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188340	Representative Felak has come forward for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188341	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President HS. Comrade Bačić, I agree most of the time with your debate and I think it is necessary to especially highlight what the defenders have done for our country and that this fund is not a privilege but something that should have been made possible for the defenders because if we know that they are a weak asset and that they share in the fund and dividend that has been paid to most of them, it is certainly very good for the simple basic existence of life. But I'm asking you, you said it, but I think it should be pointed out once again that this fund should be financially strengthened as soon as possible and what, in the first privatisation that is going to happen, but even without privatisation that it should simply be given a certain financial injection or a certain number of shares or shares in certain state-owned companies so that this fund can continue to fulfil its task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188342	Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188343	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Felak, I wanted to talk in one part about some things that were related to World War II veterans and how and how these were done by countries around us, especially France, I don't know, and England. I remember when making a decision about this fund in 2005. When you look at a phonogram in some things, it's kind of a conversation, but it was a noble intention. 2018 We have passed the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund in which it is actually spoken and, and we are managing the fund itself and certain legal solutions that are then adopted are very good and can only be improved, to promote this fund in the future that it fulfils its purpose, of course by increasing its property and what can be shared with the participants of the Homeland War itself, or, that is, their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188344	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188345	Thank you very much. My colleague, this Fund and its business is one big thank you to the defenders and the defence population, and I fully agree with you when you said that the government is the one who has to think about financially empowering this Fund because from this report it is visible that the future and possibilities that the Fund should definitely be done, which is that it also cares about the children of the deceased defenders, for their scholarship and education, if it does not have stable financial revenues and if it depends on only one company, so other than the Government, I suggest that the Law on the Fund be amended and that the future in the privatisation of companies where the state has shares, a certain number of shares, those 7%, as it stands in the Act in the Fund, means the Government and the Assembly, but the government needs to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188346	Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188347	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaović, in fact, in the last sentence you said what I was going to say to you, the government certainly as an executive body, but we in the Croatian Parliament, and I know that we have a special sensitivity when it comes to Croatian defenders, I am glad that in this term the Government has passed the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as well as members of their families, therefore, on a number of occasions to address the issues of defenders. The fund is one of these, as one of them, one self that can actually help members, members of the defense population, and their children in that material part. But not only the Government, but we ourselves in the Croatian Parliament must work harder, find solutions, and then the political decision of the Government itself will be easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188348	Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188349	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, I think it is also necessary to say that the government of the SDP in 2002 passed the Law on the privatisation of INA and on the privatisation of HEP. Based on these laws, 7% were to be passed on to Croatian defenders, 7% of the INA shares were transferred, but in 2010 we put the HEP Privatisation Act out of force, because we simply believe that not everything in Croatia should be sold, but again the SDP government sold shares of Croatia's insurance, chose a strategic recapitalisation partner, and when we asked that 7% of the shares of Croatia's insurance be transferred to the Croatian defenders' Fund, this was not done. And today we have a situation where we are discussing this Report that practically who the only property of the Croatian Defence Fund is 7% of the shares of HT, where we have no practical decision-making in the Assembly, we depend on their mercy as much as the dividend will be shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188350	Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188351	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, I said that you have institutional memory as a rare person in the Croatian Parliament, it is good that you mentioned it, so at the sale of HT it was 7%, the fact is when SDP was in power, especially in the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, it did not happen. I remember that debate very well, there were certain promises, but unfortunately those promises didn't come true. But there are other companies, but there is also an appeal to the Government, any government, when such privatisations occur, and it will happen, not necessarily, HEP, but any other company owned by the state, to think about and then to improve the Fund with a number of shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188352	Representative Strick called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188353	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Babić, so the main goal of this Fund is to improve the socio-economic position of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Without the funding of this Fund, how many children would be able to finish high school, more, colleges, today become respected members of our society and so on. So I believe that this Fund has absolutely contributed to the purpose of its existence that many of our defenders have helped them with their difficult socio-economic situation, especially when we talk about children finishing schools and colleges. It was this Fund that brought the most vulnerable ones, and these are those who live in rural areas, how many of them could pay for an apartment or accommodation in Zagreb, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188354	Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188355	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Strick, you spoke of it on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, of course the Fund has fulfilled its purpose, of course it does, I said three-thirds of how and how it is shared, from reinvesting itself to, to scholarships, 1/3 is tied to, to scholarships to children of the dead Croatian defenders. He fulfilled his purpose, there is no doubt about it, but I will remind you of something that as a society we need and have a broader picture, therefore the Law on Croatian Defence, when it was passed is actually one of the laws that was most misused. So we're also talking about those people, so we're talking about the Fund, not only the Government, but it's also the members of the Fund who need to think about how and how to manage their Fund to gain more, so it's also on the members of the Fund itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188356	Thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188357	Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2017 is submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2017 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the constituency working body, for 124 and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188453	We move to the next item of the agenda of the draft law on amendments to the copyright law and related rights, first reading, P.Z. No. 674, the applicant is Agent Ivan Pernar, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Agent Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188454	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the problem we have in Croatia with HDS ZAMP is that these people de facto have a monopoly on copyright. So it's not possible to say composers or people who create authorial content, and they're involved in music to join another association other than HDS ZAMP to protect their collective rights. By giving the law to the monopoly HDS ZAMP, it actually made HDS ZAMP do whatever it wants, and no competition or alternative actually does not exist. What is important to note is that in Croatia we have to pay taxes on empty CDs, DVDs, USB contacts, hard drives, etc., regardless of their application. So if you go to the hospital, like I did and you break your leg, like I broke it, and you paint on your X-ray, that is. If they paint your leg on an X-ray, you'll get that picture on the CD. So on the CD that shows my broken leg you have to pay the copyright to HDS ZAMP. For what? Here's another example. Every bill I've ever given in this assembly, and this one too, in order to actually break that rule of HDS ZAMP, I have to put it on the CD. Be careful which thought, in order to give the bill against HDS ZAMP, I have to pay the CD or the Assembly pays it, and again I have to pay HDS ZAMP for something I did. The same thing is with everyone else who uses their cameras, because people today, they don't all deal with just watching ZAMP stuff, content, people produce their own content. I produce a lot of content, people watch that content, I've never gotten a single lip from HDS ZAMP. I've never had a HDS ZAMP give me one of my own, but I'm not looking, I don't have a problem with that, but I have a problem with doing my own HDS ZAMP content I have to pay for the content I don't use. Unfortunately in this country, in this government, as in the previous SDP, you remember what I always say that HDZ and SDP are the same, that always the policy of continuity where the SDP stops HDZ continues and each other protects the interests of HDS ZAMP. They give them a monopoly, they give them actually a huge amount of money, if they're going to assign that money in a transparent way or not, I'm not going into it, that's their thing, but what I want to question anyway is why I should have to pay them at all. Why? And the fact that we have to pay taxes on blank CDs is because someone on that CD is going to fry the Sea of Calacha or Severina I think it's crazy because what about us who aren't going to burn it on our own CD. But this law comes from a conjecture because you could use a CD because like yourself, you have to pay taxes on it. What logic? Well it's like you have a situation restriction is 60 your car can drive 150 and now they're punishing all drivers even though they don't drive over limits. Why? Because those in theory could drive beyond limit, or that's why this is even a crazy idea, and because some of them were driving and they didn't get caught, so now we're going to punish all the drivers. This is about an interesting lobby, an interesting group that has a huge amount of money and, of course, it won't be given without a fight. And it's obvious there are a lot of MPs in this assembly who support them. Why do they support them? They will claim to God for the performers and those composers, however, it is indicative to me that Ivo Josipovic is one of those who receive ZAMP money for his copyright. I find it odd why his music is playing on the radio, who is at all playing that music and who wants to, did you ever hear that when someone asks people what fathers to play as something, what's the musical desire of the listeners, so if someone calls, please let Ivo Josipovic give me something from him, I personally didn't hear it and said that my colleague that this music of his is who to let the cat walk on the piano, it is, but the man loves the money and of course he supports ZAMP, of course he gives him money and no one sees anything controversial in it, people are normal, there is no, there is no conflict of interest, no, just people like playing Josipović's music. I would also like to say that there are many young authors who cannot come at all or are not released precisely because these large houses or because those who determine what is being released determine that certain things are being released from which they will earn through copyright. I'll give you a banal example, a young girl told me I'm working on a radio station, says Ivane I'm sick of having to play the same music all the time, but people think that if I run a show that I decide what to play, says no, I, I'm driven, I don't decide anything, and people tell me more and text me so put something else on, she can't tell them, look, I just have to always put that same story. What I'm trying to say is that we're like a society or something. I, as the political option Party of Ivan Pernar, advocate the freedom of the individual, advocate that man should not be vaccinated if he does not want to, that he should not pay the HRT subscription, I have proposed that, there, there, that change of the law, I have also advocated the legalisation of hemp, who wants to consume someone who does not have to, I also advocate the abolition of this charge because what you often hear on television is like "we are like people who are burdened with parafiscal duties", they constantly serve you a message like it imposes a lot, that people can't bear it, that, yes, that people are emigrating because of these duties that are made up all the time and so on. However, when I suggested, here is a concrete proposal for the abolition of one example. A parafiscal intrusion like this with ZAMP, the square immediately jumped on me, right now, you won't be Pernar, you won't be the Pernar abolishing the HDS ZAMP monopoly. However, it is my call to you who are looking at us right now to open your eyes, to realize that HDS ZAMP is not working in the interests of most people in the Republic of Croatia, but to take advantage of a few at the expense of all of us. And the question is actually this, if the vast majority of people in the Republic of Croatia don't want to pay for this HDS ZAMP charge, and there's no choice they're forced to do, then why, in the assembly of those people who love them are all for HDS ZAMP. Do you understand the paradox? So, on the one hand, the people and his will, on the other hand, are MPs who, in theory, should represent the will of those citizens who chose them. However, no, no, no, no, no, no, they do not represent the representatives of those citizens, MPs represent HDS ZAMP and in order to take off their masks, to show the public who is actually standing next to the citizens or who represents the view that a monopoly of HDS ZAMP should be taken, who is the view that empty CDs and DVDs should not be paid to ZAMP etc. Now, you can see dear citizens, the masks will fall, you'll see, the government has rejected this proposal, of course, to lift this parafiscal imposition, and why? And why is that? They'll say for the sake of the common good, it's always the story of the general good, it's always the story of the protection of others. But I don't trust them. And what's with me, what's most nagging about my eye, I mean how servant and puppetic this government is. And it hurts me the most when I see that the migrants are given free of charge to the use of apartments and paid for their directs, and why say those who come from third, third-world countries, why say to the Croats who moved out of the Republic and fled, why don't you offer them, hey people, if you want to come back, we'll give you an apartment and we'll pay the directors and we'll have places for your kids in kindergarten, you won't have to pay for it. But it's obvious that the government is serving an evil agenda. Unfortunately, it's not just a question of illegal migration, there's a aspect of monetary fraud, there's a aspect, here's the aspect, here's the picture of the government going down HDS ZAMP's hair. And I invite all of you voters who are looking at this right now, if you're tired of paying parafiscal charges, if you don't want to be labeled all criminals because they say like, but like you, you do it undercover, this. If you don't want to be labeled criminals, don't support this criminal government, wake up from hypnosis, they're criminals, you're not criminals, you go to elections, you defeat them in elections, and that's it. I stand at your disposal, and whatever's in your heart is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188455	Does he want the committee's rapporteurs to take the floor? Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188456	Thanks. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that HS not accept the draft Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights submitted to the president by Ivan Pernar, an MP at HS. For example, at EU level private copying is regulated in Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament, this Directive stipulates that Member States must provide for the exclusive right to grant authorisations or prohibitions for direct or indirect, temporary or permanent reproduction by any means and in any form or in whole or in parts for authors and their works, for artists of performers, phonogram manufacturers, etc. whether these broadcasts are transmitted via wire or air, including cable or satellite. Furthermore, this Directive provides that countries may provide for exceptions or restrictions to the right of reproduction provided for in this Directive, and one of such exceptions is that the rightholder of age, obtains a fair compensation and that provision allows users to freely copy copyrights and objects for the protection of their own private needs, that rightholders on those parts may be granted the right to a fair fee for such use which is, in a practical sense, the usual establishment as a subsequent sale of technical devices and empty sound carriers, images and texts, thus those as the CDs have been said. This exception to private copying in the directive has been implemented in its national regulations by almost all EU Member States. The way it is done is through collective rights organisations which have decided in the Republic of Croatia to collect compensations in their own collectively-fulfilment of copyrights, this is Croatian, as mentioned, the Croatian Society of composers, HDS who, in order to carry out their jobs collectively exercising copyrights... the appropriate service known as HDZ ZAMP, which, in turn, collects compensation for authors of music works, artists, etc. and other rights holders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those fees are then further... their members, i.e. right-holders. It should be noted that personal copy fees are distributed to Croatian and foreign authors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the provisions of the proposed law in question are prescribed... Articles of this Act, which regulates the right to the compensation in question and the way in which it is determined and collected, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that, in the event of eradicating those provisions in accordance with the provisions of the EU Directive, rightholders should fall under the exclusive right to grant authorisation or prohibition to reproduce subjects of protection and as regards natural persons who do so for private use and for a purpose which is neither direct nor indirect commercial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the adoption of the proposed law would not make it clear. Following all the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept the proposed Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188457	Representative Misic has come forward for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188458	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I believe that these stakeholders representing ZAMP and who passed this law, that the law is not right. Their rights should be limited. It's not fair for employers and similar people to pay, imagine, a 100-car company that every vehicle new in the car has a radio, should take out the radio so that the gentlemen don't pay for listening to music. You know how much it costs? Very, very much. I find this law unfair. That stakeholders have made their interests and that it is necessary to change the law because you charge for something you don't want to listen to in your vehicle, talk about people, companies that have cars specific, and companies that listen to this music, therefore, it needs to be limited and changed by some provisions that can't be more than one to the company, from one radio to charge, Not hundreds or more. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188459	Thank you. Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188460	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. So in the light of the law, you've written the rejection of the law, and now you've said it's a fair fee. I would stand up to it, it's not a fair fee because we could call this more tax because we're actually, probably going in that direction, it can't be charged exactly to those who are using that right. ... tax because it's paid by everyone, whether they consume it or not, that right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're always expecting a favor for compensation. So it's not about fair compensation, but in any case, one of the models of how authors get compensation for their own, for using their rights. In that sense, I agree, but surely you should change the terminology because it is not a matter of compensation because everyone then, colleague Pernar has warned, everyone would expect some sort of counterservice, in this case the man who goes to X-ray feet certainly does not expect a counterservice to listen to music on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188461	Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188462	I would like to say that I am glad that the HDZ Government takes off the mask and shows that it supports the same policy of Ivo Josipovic, and in fact it is a globalist policy and in the end, it has lost the election now here, with Colinda, who is also a globalist. And I don't know what to say, keep fighting the war against your own people, you'll see how it ends in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188463	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188464	Thank you, Vice President HS. It's not good, and we at HSS don't think it's good for anyone to have a monopoly. In any area of the economy, even when it comes to copyright, although, of course, authors of different works should be compensated for what they contribute to cultural development of the Republic of Croatia, but not to the harm of craftsmen, farmers, and what bothers me the most, when civil society associations and humanitarian associations organise some gatherings to highlight their problem and seek solutions, so they want to spice it with some number of music to make it better for their members and members and present themselves to the public, they must pay high fees to ZAMP. Who determines that amount of compensation and whether an exception can be made to associations of civil society, especially humanitarian associations, when they organise such manifestations are released from paying those fees, not to force them into breach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188465	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188466	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The promoter is Agent Ivan Pernar. Copyright is the copyright of the author in respect of his copyright. The authors of works in the field of literature, science and art have the exclusive right to use their work, and others can be authorised or prohibited by the use of works. The author may prohibit, under contractual conditions, the multiplication, public performance of the recording, broadcasting, translation or adaptation of his work. Authors often give property, economic rights over their works to individuals or legal persons who can make the best commercial use of them in exchange for paying the fees that depend on the use of the work. However, the moral rights of the author are linked to the person, the author and are not portable. The moral rights of the author are only partially transferable in the event of the death of the author. Copyright is not protected by ideas but by an authorial work which is an expression of ideas regardless of the type or quality of expression. Copyright is created by the very achievement of the work and, unlike most other forms of intellectual property, it is not subject to administrative or registration procedures. Related rights which are rights that are close to or related to copyrights. Assuming the existence of the author's work and having their own special subject of protection, Croatia, according to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, provide protection to artists, performers on their performances, phonogram producers on their phonograms, film producers, video games producers on their video games, radio broadcasting organisations on their broadcasts, publishers on their publications, database manufacturers on their databases. The current law includes a type of tax on blank CDs, DVDs, memory cards, USB contacts, and this fee is called private copying of music and movies and goes to ZAMP. Opposing collective punishment and taking individual responsibility i.e. that impose cannot be imposed on everyone for the reason that some break the law and illegally copy movies and music. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this bill by MP Pernar. The existing legislative framework in this area provides authors with the exclusive right to have their works available. Third persons who wish to use copyright works and other subject-matter shall be obliged to obtain a previous permit, usually with a specific fee. Today, with available technology, it is becoming increasingly difficult to control the production of copyright works, which is why the system of rights for private copying is applied. At EU level, such a system is regulated by Directive 2001/29 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. The directive aims to adapt legislation to copyright and related rights, technological developments and, in particular, information society, while allowing for a higher degree of protection of intellectual property. The Directive provides for a comprehensive list of exceptions and rights restrictions with a view to facilitating the use of protected content in specific cases. There is a mandatory exception to the right to reproduce for certain temporary acts. Production consisting of an integral and essential part of the technological process of temporary specimens, with the aim of enabling the authorised use or transfer in the network between third parties through intermediaries, parts or other objects. In the Republic of Croatia, we have a system that works in a way that is responsible for the payment of fees by producers of tonic and visual recording devices, photocopying devices manufacturers, manufacturers of empty sound carriers, images or text and importers of these devices. The obligation to pay compensation shall be effected on first sale in the Republic of Croatia or on imports of those devices. This proposal provides for the erasure of articles governing the right to the compensation in question. In that case, rightholders would be subject to the exclusive right of authorisation or prohibition to reproduce the subject of protection and to natural persons who make such actions for private use or who have no commercial purpose. And about that, the HDZ Representatives Club can't accept a bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188467	Representative Ivan Pernar requested a word on behalf of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188468	Well, I'd like to say that the current regulation is strange, for example. I have a camera, camera or I use USB contacts for or SD cards to install Linux, an open system, and I now have to pay for that ZAMP fee. Neither ZAMP produced my pictures and my videos, nor did ZAMP have anything to do with the Linux Foundation and that Linus Torvalds, there's nothing simple you have to pay ZAMP for. It's the whole story and logic, it doesn't matter if it's a CD, a SD camera card, any kind of memory. Now why does the law require us all to pay a fee to ZAMP if we don't all use their services, why? What's the logic in that? Of course logic doesn't make sense, or logic is that a small group of people come up with a lot of money at the expense of all of us. And that's the logic HDZ supports. There you can see the faces of HDZ, there you can see crystal and clearly black on white as they rob their own people, but this is not the only imposition they've given. They've given 1,000 other duties and for every imposition they'll come here and give an explanation of why they have it. Don't think they'll say we don't have an explanation for these accusations or we feel that this imposition should be lifted, not they'll always give us explanations why we should have these accusations. But what surprises me would like the SDP gentlemen to report the same word, I'm sorry Ivo Josipovic isn't here today, that he says we're in the SDP for ZAMP too. Because then the mask would be taken off, this way it looks like it's just HDZ for ZAMP, and it would be nice if both HDZ and SDPs would say and we're for ZAMP, because then people would actually see between what they choose. They choose between the two evils that lead them to ruin. I remember when I said that Kolinda and Milanovic were the same, then people said they weren't the same Kolinda and Milanovic, I ask that they weren't the same, so you see that Milanovic is for the Croatian Army to withdraw from Afghanistan, and they send me an article really Milanovic tells me that I want to, I will withdraw the army from Afghanistan, I told him, I don't believe him, but it's nice if he has a different attitude than Colinda, but as soon as Milanovic was elected, he immediately signed sending soldiers to Afghanistan. But some sucker may have voted for him in the second round thinking he's different from Colinda, dear friends there's a small group of people who secretly rule our countries, I can't tell you who these people are, because many would find themselves offended, but these politicians you're looking at in the House are just puppets of that agenda. Unfortunately, they serve informal structures of power, they do not serve our people. Monetary occupation, the conversion of CNB into exchange rate, the definition of money as a debt, the executive law for disbursement of Croatian people, bringing migrants from third-world countries to which apartments are given free of charge, pay directors, for... There are places in kindergarten, and for you Croatians there are no free apartments, no payments, no directors' payments to you, you've got errands, and for your children there's no room in kindergarten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't we say the Croats who moved out don't give them free apartments for use in Croatia and call them back to Croatia, but they do it for migrants? Why let's just say those lecturers give lessons about human rights and great values and humanity, why say the Jews, can you imagine the state of Israel that, by any chance, they give free apartments to migrants who come from Pakistan, Iran, wherever in Israel, and not give that same opportunity to their own countrymen. So the logic of the matter is that Israel, they say, we want to remain a Jewish state; they will give Jews from all over the world to come into their land; they will give them all, you will give them the house? Here is your house, you want an apartment? And we're moving our own people and bringing migrants from the other side of the world here. Those who convince us of these values that tell us about diversity, about multiculturalism, which George Soros says, that he invested how many millions in these migrants, so they don't accept them themselves, they do their best not to reach them, but to harass us with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188469	Representative Sasa Djujic reported for individual participation in the debate, but he is not there, so he loses his right to speak. For the final word, Agent Pernar as a motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188470	The whole story of the Croatian public is that when I caught them with my fingers in a jam, when I showed that they were both the same, that they were serving the same agenda, that they advocated the same policy, and on the issue of illegal migrations, or those migrants who want to draw us here, which give us all possible privileges, and on the issue of the monetary system, both are for the introduction of the EUR, one and the other are for the CNB to work like this, but it's not even enough for them. It's not enough that the CNB exchange office, no swear, should be burned', should be thrown in the trash, it's their policy, we'll introduce the EUR-o, you Croats won't have your money. What, you Croats want to live in a homogeneous state? No, we'll have the Croats disintegrate you, and we'll bring some other people here. And I wonder why our people are such that they look at it calmly and support it in the elections, what kind of people think I'm crazy, and these people who work for him here in the Council thinks I'm smart? That's what we should be asking ourselves. Now there's a colleague, Beljak, who reminded me of one thought, a SD card tax just because in theory like her could be used as an illegal shop or listening to that authorial content, so it's like now introducing a special tax on crowbars, because let's just say a crowbar might be used for breaking and entering, so now you're all going to do a few things maybe that he's going to rob, now you're all going to have to pay a tax on crowbars, that's a crazy idea. Mr. Beljak would be the first to say, Ivan, that's crazy what you're saying right now and you're suggesting, but when it comes to ZAMP, then no idea is crazy enough, then all their big ideas are smart, and all their big ideas, under the quotes of big ideas, come down to the same thing, which is to draw money out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, moving Croatian citizens, bringing our country into a dependent position, or debt slavery. And let me tell you, yesterday I filmed the Brozovic family in Jaska or Jastrebarski, and they're in for a mirage. I think the Dancer is the 26th address, I'm not sure. They're in for a raid because they couldn't repay the RBA loan to the Austrian community, so what's the state gonna do? They'll be decommissioned. Do you think he'll give them a free apartment for use? He won't let them. Don't let them, you go to the street. People have a pension of no, 2,000,00 kuna or 1.500,00, and they eat most of it too, so, yeah, and with what they stay they barely have for directors and food, let alone for what. They don't actually have any directors, those people, those poor people, they're heavy. Today, pensioners have a choice, or if we can call it a choice, they have a choice whether to pay for the directorship or to go eat in the kitchen. If they're going to pay, that is, if they're going to pay for the directories, they have to go to the soup kitchen because they can't buy food. So he'll buy food, or he'll pay the director's fee. And unfortunately, the lines are getting longer in front of the soup kitchens, I went there in my time, I tried to point out that problem, but these same pensioners when the elections come, and here they are, these pensioners who are delegated by the RBA cooperative now soon from Austria, say Ivana we didn't go to the elections at all. Then I filmed people, a family from Zabok, the same thing, that is, they voted for Milanovic, and now they're waiting for dejacation, I sold Zagrebačka bank to some scavinska fund from Luxembourg, and they defuse them. And I ask if you expect Milanovic to help you, he says no, so I ask why you voted for him. Well, it's like she's not. And I say okay, what, is gone, solved the problem with her, but you're still waiting for a dejection and what now. And why, because the media brainwashed them, the media assures them that there is a difference between Kolinda and Milanovic, that it is not the same. But if you were, you'd ask Colinda and Milanovic what you think of HDS ZAMP, they'd see that they're thinking the same thing. If you ask Colinda and Milanovic what they think of the EU, one and the other are for the EU. If you ask them if you are for NATO and one and the other they will say that they are for NATO, if you ask them if you are for sending Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan, both will say, and of course we are, or Milanovic will say no, and they will sign to leave. That's one hypocrite. These are people who work against the Croatian state and against the Croatian people, and you MPs support them. Why do you support them? Because it's in your interest? No, I don't. You only support them because you have personal benefit, you know that the state, the people, and even you in the long run don't benefit from that policy. What have you got? Here, gentlemen of the HDZ. Mr. Misic, you support them. What do you have from them moving the Croatian people and bringing in migrants? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. But you don't have the guts to tell Plenkovic, so as long as you do it, it's over. So come on, man, show your manhood, show your courage. Tell me, Plenkovic, we are not your dolls at the end of the day to lead us all to ruin. But unfortunately you don't have the courage in the Parliament today, no. Because you think, if you're okay, if your wages are good, the situation is good. I remember when Colinda was on the radio for a while, so she said everything was great, and I asked the manager, so why don't you explain to me how she talks like that, so look, she says, from her point of view, and it's all great. So you from your corner is all great in Croatia and this direction that Croatia is going is a good direction, and that we are disappearing, so did you hear what I'm saying, in 1950, you know how many children were born in Croatia? Ninety-five thousand, and this last year, in 2019, only thirty-six thousand, two-and-a-half times less. Grandpa and Grandma are 2.5 more than grandkids are now. So are you aware of what that number means? This means that there is an imminent decline in the population of our country. Is that what's bothering you? No, I don't. You know why not? Well, Plenkovic has a solution. We'll get the migrants. Instead of giving his children bread, to give them apartments, to help them. To give them health insurance. No, he gives health insurance, all possible privileges to foreigners from across the world. It's their project, we're excess to them, they want to replace us. That's the essence of the whole story. And then when I say this, I smell like a Masonic agenda, and Pernar says, "You're a conspiracy theorist, that's not true, you're talking nonsense." If I'm talking nonsense, why does all this talk look like this? If HDZ and SDP do not advocate the same policy, why do both damage the interests of HDS ZAMP? It's a banal thing. Why are both for HRT subscription? Now it's a SDP joke, like we are for legalizing hemp, and when they were able to legalize it, they didn't legalize it. You are making a fool of the Croatian people, and most tragic of all, the Croatian people support you in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188471	Representative Damjan Vucelic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188472	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Pernar, HDS ZAMP is one of the artisan parasites, and you all need to know that. Other countries have resolved the fees to artists through simple Royalty and contracts between publishers and artists themselves, but only in Croatia can this happen that there is one such agency where these people, I will now not insult those people, but they live on the torture and sweat of our citizens, our employers, our owners of companies, smaller, bigger ones, but everyone has to pay for it, including those citizens who pay for these CDs, DVDs and other data storage devices. The simple deal can solve it, let the publishers pay the artists, not all of us citizens here, all the employers, this doesn't make sense, and you who are paralysing on ours. With blood, at our sweat, you all need [[Intruder Petrov: You're out of time, thank you.]] The prisons end. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188473	Answer, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188474	Comrade Vucelic, you're absolutely right, you're absolutely right. HDS ZAMP earns not even on copyright, they earn on empty data storage devices. Hey, so imagine, if, say, film producers in Croatia say, producers, directors, whoever, now you're going to pay compensation for every blank CD, DVD, data carrier because there's a possibility that some movie of ours might be found there. Oh, yeah? Well, then you might as well have a book club say you have to pay our writers a fee because you use, say, computers to store books in PDF. So why not? Or, you could say, pixel this CROPIX, they could say the same thing because the pictures you have on your data storage devices, Why does HDS ZAMP have the right to do what it does? [[Intruder Petrov: You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188475	Thank you. Representative Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188476	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you called me to support the government. Of course, but I do not support the law on ZAMP and the law Ivo Josipovic passed. I don't support it, publicly. And I don't want it to be, I think that craftsmen and businessmen are very damaged and the whole people, and therefore, they can agree with you. I support the work, not the story. I've worked my whole life, I've worked my whole life to support and support all the people who work in this country and who, by their work, contribute to the development of this country. Politics and politics is something else, we can talk about here, but how much good we've done will the people see, of course, from me and you and from all of us who deal with this policy that I'm dealing with today... That's what I do. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that every government, including this one, this government has done a lot, which is rarely what the government has done to date, so I know that someone will not be right, but that's true, so I'm assessing and I think it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188477	Thank you. Agent Pernar's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188478	Dear Representative Misic, you say the government has done enough. I'll say she's done a lot, but for who? For Mr. Shavoric and the Borg crew? For migrants coming from third-world countries in the Republic of Croatia who are given everything on a plate? For those kids in the camps allegedly Plenkovic plans to bring us here and feed us to our account? Or did she do a lot and a lot for the Croats who ran away from that policy from our country and who don't want to go back to the Republic of Croatia because of it? Who did she make it for? Has she done a lot for HDZ members who have doubled their bank accounts and property cards? Did she do a lot for them? It's for them, but for the rest of us, I'm afraid not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188479	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188480	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first reading, number P.Z. number 674. The applicant is Agent Ivan Pernar, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is not adopted. Who's against it? I see four. Who's restrained? I think the same four. And who's in? Detained, then I didn't see 6, then 6. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, 114 for, 5 abstentions and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188481	The next item on the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. No. 644. The proposer shall be the club of representatives of the GLAS on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Agent Anka Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188482	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. To start with a little sarcasm. Thanks to the fact that, here is the HDZ in its election campaign, so ministers cannot do their job that they have received and we have the opportunity to present in some kind of acceptance of the law, because as you can see on the agenda a lot more of those opposition proposals than the ruling ones, which speaks more than 100 words about how much the Government is dealing with its internal elections at these times, and how much it is dealing with real problems and what they need to solve. But that's where I'm gonna put the dot and I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. In July of last year, we submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on maternity and parental support. When I say "we," I mean the GLAS party. Family policies are very important to us. It is extremely important to us because through this, through quality family policies you can also talk about demographic recovery, revitalisation and all other elements that are important. Through these amendments and additions to the law, we put emphasis on two topics. The first topic is equal parenting, i.e. the balance of responsibility between fathers and mothers in caring for a newborn child, and the second topic is equal legal treatment, equal legal protection towards all adoptors and their adoptive children. When you listen a little and we talk a little bit, so recently it was Women's Day, everyone's going to be declarative about how they advocate women's rights, how the right woman is extremely important, how, well, it's about both mothers and women's employees and everything else, and then we get to real life and we watch how it is in real life. Aroundly, a woman decides not to make progress in her work because she simply does not have the conditions or conditions to do so. Equally, when we have now that fathers and mothers can agree on maternity care, and in the Republic of Croatia, 93% of women are those who are on maternity leave, only 7% are fathers. And it's no accident why that is. One reason is because women usually have less pay and then when they sit at home they find it better to have a woman on maternity leave and as such the family loses less than the father on maternity leave. The fathers who are on maternity leave in our society are seen like that, and you're on maternity leave. Let's see what other countries have done. So we're always full of mouths and we love to watch what some other countries are, especially Scandinavian. They did a series of analyses, and then, among other things, they asked children in all these polls to rank how in their environments they live in how, who helps them most, who plays most, who's closest to them, and then it was your turn, first it's Mom, then they're grandparents, then they're some aunts, and then your fathers are in 4-5 places. We went with the bill on two subjects. The first topic is, as I have already said, equal parenting. So, through our bill of law, we say the following, which is that an employee or self-employed father of a child living in a joint household with a child has the right to have a child on compulsory father leave for an uninterrupted period of 10 days, which is used until 70 days after the birth of a child. So, something that is mandatory at the very beginning, and beyond that, the right to parental leave is used by both parents living in a shared household with a child, with mother and father using parental leave for a minimum duration of 2 months. They may be used individually, at the same time or alternatingly in accordance with a personal agreement. Actually, it's an idea. We have not now invented something revolutionary, we also have EU directives that are in favour of it. We have directives that we need to put into our legislation, the fact is, not this year, but what we think would be decent, I don't see why all the directives have to wait for the last moment. It seems to me that some directives could be incorporated into our legislation before and before, not because, and it's on the one hand to install the directive, put your finger in your ear and finish the story, we have it. Anyway, let's try something real. Let us really try to show that it is important that both father and mother really participate in raising children from the earliest age. Let's show that it's important for us to really, that the age, so that raising children is extremely important to us, that the welfare of children is extremely important to us, not only when certain days are, then we go out and we boast very much about these proposals, but let's do it for real. Not only do we have in the legislation, but to show that we are the country in which we care because what I really don't think I'm an expert on that area, but what we do know, we know that children, what they learn, carry on. So let's show that we're taking care of things and that it's important to us that it's not just a declaration. You with certain fees can solve something, but this story that father and mother have the opportunity to be together with their child from the very beginning is extremely important. Likewise, we have a series and a directive that we have neatly installed, and when someone asks you if you have it in the legislation, you just say the clutch, I have, it's there, about the balance of business and private life, about women being able to participate very early in the labour market, and we neatly, you can put a clutch and say we have. Then you come to reality and you see it's not like that. For example, one of the drastic examples is, and I've talked about it several times already, and I'll talk about it this time, it was a decision in the city of Zagreb when it was a parent-teacher decision where up to 15 years old until your child turns 15 you're with that child at home. It's a condition that you don't work and it's a condition that your child doesn't go to kindergarten. So that's how you're, you're spending out of the city budget, and you're automatically one child who doesn't go to kindergarten is certainly in a worse starting position than a kid who goes to kindergarten, and I won't say, and the main thing is that, again, you were women, after 15 years of that woman's absolutely in the labour market I can forget that it's absolutely possible. So, on the one hand, we have directives, we put them in nicely, we say, a clutch and we did that, on the other hand, we make sure that these one directive that was even the least resilient doesn't build up until the last minute, but then the third thing, how do we live? What are we doing? Do we have measures to encourage the team? Does it matter to us that fathers, regardless, are immediately involved in the education and growth of their child and even raising is the third story at all? And then we have the second part of this law, or amendments and additions to the law, which is related to the adoption and relationship to adopted children. In Croatia, about a hundred children are adopted at the level of a year. I guess it was and now in this period, you don't adopt anymore, with children over 7 years of age, or after 8 years of age being very difficult, or very difficult to adopt. Probably you and I had the opportunity to see a series of shows that were on the subject, and in doing so, I don't want to be dramatic or anything heartwarming, but there was a conversation with young girls who had already finished, so they're no longer in the institution, but they're alive, they can't be in homes anymore and they weren't even fostered, and even less adopted, I've seen girls who said they were, we wanted to live, or she said, I wanted someone to bake pancakes just for me in life. I wanted the stuff to smell or smell like some softener that was just for me, but it could smell like food that was cooked, I never had it in my life. These children who are over 7 or 8 years old, em are difficult to adopt, em in legislation, when it comes to it, we really don't benefit the adoptors who have decided to do so, we can come out with certain measures that are, which are monetary character, those kids that come in, basically have nothing, they have nothing, they ask, they talk, they come in, you need to take care of it, you need to have the opportunity to organize your life, to adapt to each other, it takes a while. Since we went with this bill in May last year, we have this provision that says that the law enters into force on July 1st, 2019. Of course, I don't even need to talk about how the government didn't accept these changes and supplement when any opposition proposal came in and if the government said yes, I think all of us would not fall from the crown of the virus but from that fact at all. Someone asked me today, I said you know the next thing you know, if someone from the opposition clubs suggested we have some kind of law that says it's Wednesday. We would get an answer from the government that it is not accepted because it is systematically solved everything and that it cannot only be defined that today is Wednesday but must systematically define all the days of the week. This is a law that shouldn't have recommendations, you shouldn't bring us back to some former state I don't know any more, some kind of past. This is the law you should say yes to. The Croatian state is important to her demographic policy, yes, she has decided on a series of measures, yes, one of these measures related to demographic policy is important and equal parenting, yes, it is important for us to acquire and facilitate the conditions related to child adoption. Of course we're at the GLAS Club ready and on the option just to go to the second reading, that if there's anything else we need to change, that between the first and the second reading we'll get along. The opportunity to come to another reading is an opportunity for us as an opportunity for some children who are now in their homes to be fostered or adopted is also an opportunity for us to really send a message that the Croatian state is representing equal parenting. We'd love to have that opportunity, but I'm afraid since we've had and seen what the government's answer was that we won't get that chance, but it would be good if we all got that chance together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188483	Representative Josko Klisovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188484	Thank you very much. Here, I just wanted to relate to my colleague, Anka Taritas Mrak, when she said that parenting should be equal to what I fully agree with and that very often when choosing whether a father or mother will be on maternity leave is a mother among other things and because of the wages women get less than men. But what is also dramatic, which has warned me recently that when they return from the maternity home and when they need a child, they need to get sick and then go to the hospital so that for the first 6 months they don't get sick benefits because of the salary benefits you've received for the last 6 months, that they've been on maternity leave and they haven't been paid any maternity benefits. Is there really such a form of inequality in our society?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188485	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188486	So I already have a lot of serious and life experience and work experience and I know exactly what I've been through. And I wish women didn't go through with it today, but they're going through the same thing. I tell a story very often that I'm going to repeat right now. I've been able to get a chance and we've called a job competition and in the competition there's a lot of people, I've been at the head of a department 10 years ago and I've only gone by and there's this young woman and I ask her, I'm sorry you have a kid, she says I have, I say how much she says one thing all shyly, I say but I'm asking you because it's an advantage, not a flaw, she's looking at me so confusedly, I and I really think it was her advantage at that point and it was an advantage that she decided to have more children, and for all of it together she needs to have an understanding, but not at a declarative level, let's really make something to feel it and materially.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188487	Thank you. Agent Kirin has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188488	The Honorable Vice President, respected deputies regarding maternity and parental benefits, is what this government has done more than other governments. Especially since 1.4 when it is planned to raise the parental fee by 170% of the budget base. Will this make you a greater demographic shift and how when the young have moved out, and the rest are the population of questionable demographic potential? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188489	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188490	Your Honor, I could agree with you that everything and more is the population of questionable potential, take a look at with honor the exceptions a little bit around you and see everything. So, otherwise we think that every shift that's been made is a good shift, that anyone who gets and 100 kunas is no longer good and is not negligible, but we don't see any reason not to take steps any further. So it's not revitalisation or demographic recovery just one measure, it's a series of measures. So that's something that we've been saying here, that's what you're doing, and that's what kindergartens are for everyone, that's what you're supposed to do, and you have kindergartens that go in the afternoon because more and more young people work in the afternoon, so that should be a string, a series of measures. When we talk about these measures the worst is to talk about yours and ours, the measures must be everything and we absolutely all those measures that are coming, which are going to benefit we will support and support, try you and these.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188491	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188492	Thank you very much. My colleagues here from the HSS and I personally support this bill of law, and it is certainly not good that the government rejects this bill, with the reason that they do not have to implement the EU Directive that is talking about this year to have a 3-year deadline. Well, I think it should be said that this government is certainly not going to implement this directive because it is likely that citizens in the elections this year will say a lot to that government and those directives that go towards improving the position of the family especially when it comes to families who have had a small child, that it is important for the family to have both parents raise a child and that a safe child from such a family is more capable of working tomorrow but this government only symbolically raises fees and still the main problem is that a woman after He goes back to work, often loses his job, but he has to change the same thing. [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188493	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188494	So we can be filled with the mouth of demographic recovery. And it may sound good, but let's really take concrete action and do it. If someone has decided to leave this country because of his well - being, it will be difficult for you to prevent but let’s try really to at least some of the conditions young families have in some other countries. And it doesn't ask for a lot of money, not a lot of engagements, but as long as you're not in good faith, it won't be. So even when you go with some law as we go, which in that sense is very somehow I would say, soft, gives you the opportunity to agree and everything else, but on the other hand, when you get the answer from the government "not accepted" with a number of things then leave you hope but hope cannot leave us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188495	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Maria Pleikosa, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188496	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support should not be adopted for the following reasons. In the proposed law, it is necessary to regulate in more detail the details of the conditions and the way in which the father's leave is exercised. In this respect, the proposed solutions are not nomotechnically and meaningfully developed, where the powers of the competent authority are not prescribed in the process of recognising the right of the father to leave, the amount of financial support that would be recognised to the parent of the child during the application of the right, etc. Furthermore, it is not justified to introduce a parental leave of 2 months. and is unclear in relation to a valid legal solution which provides that each parent may use a parental leave of 4 months. With regard to the right to work with half the full time, the applicable law already covers both parents. In view of the extension of the right of adoptors to use parental leave up to the adoptive age of 18, we point out that these persons as workers would be in a different position than biological parents who could use up to 8 years of their child’s life for the longest period of time. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that it is necessary to take into account that, in cases of early payment of the right to one-off cash support, the other user’s rights in question have already been applied and there would be no justification for double use of the same material rights in relation to the same child. In relation to the assessment of the law implementation funds, we point out that no funding has been planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and that additional resources amounting to just over 76 million kuna should be provided. For the abovementioned reason, in relation to the submitted draft law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the GLAS and HSU of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188497	Representative Klisovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188498	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, if I understand you correctly, you said in your statement that one reason why the government rejects this bill is that it does not specify the way and the height of the father's fee while on maternity leave. And my question is, is it different for a father than for a mother is it equal to a parent on a maternity or a man and a woman? Well, maybe I got it wrong, so please explain it to me if it's different, but that's kind of what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188499	A representative of the coat of arms has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am. Secretary of State, I listened to your debate and at first you said the government couldn't accept this law because it has a certain point of view. But this is the first law reading. If you have certain remarks that are constructive, which are concrete, then make these remarks to make them into one final bill and adopt this because if you can look me in the eye and say that you think that the current system is right and just and that nothing should be touched into it, then that's one thing, but from what you're saying comes from something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188501	Representative Pusic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188502	Thank you very much, Vice President. The secretary of state, so three things the government resented this bill is that there are no certain amounts of compensation for the fathers, not to predict, I don't know, that it's settled in the existing law but also that it has nomotechnical difficulties. This all the way to the second reading without further ado, the government's view is that it won't do this law. So he won't fix it, and he won't, because without further ado, he'd be able to fix himself. If you don't want for a known reason because it's opposition, suggest the same one of your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188503	Thank you. Before I give my representative the Taritash word on behalf of the proposer, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? If not, representative Taritash on behalf of the proposer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188504	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, we gave this proposal to the law in the debate in May 2019. The government wrote its reply on June 19, 2019, today on March 11, 2020, from June 2019 to March 2020, if the government thinks something like this should be legal, and there's no government written against it anywhere, thinks we shouldn't, you had time to suggest it, as far as we're concerned, you could go into emergency procedure, we would go out for this pay phone one of us and we said we had our proposal to withdraw from the procedure, we accept the government's proposal because it's good, because it's useful, but we didn't hear it. We've heard there's something nomotechnical to do, we've heard the financial elements, and we haven't heard that. Let's not be hypocrites, because if we're hypocrites it actually gives a bad picture of us, come out and tell me we won't, Croatia isn't ready for it, in Croatia when it decides to go to an eyewitness 93% are mothers who go to maternity school, and everything is 75 fathers, we're not ready for it, we won't, when we have to install the directive because we'll have to install it until a certain day, but we won't. Because all the comments I made when I spoke on behalf of the promoter I said, we're ready to fix everything between the first and second reading. We are also prepared to make this a government proposal, and to say ok, we accept, but we are not ready to do this together because it gives a bad picture of Croatia. On the one hand, we'll talk, but on the other hand, we'll do something. Let's not be hypocrites and let's not do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188505	Representative Sasa Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188506	My colleague Mrak Taritash, you are now surprised that the government has not put forward any bill on this matter since the 5th month to this day, the government has been giving no drafts of the law for the last month and a half, especially these wrinkling ones. So now that the HDZ elections aren't currently in place, we wouldn't be discussing this law of yours today because the HDZ elections make the whole state stand, because the government isn't doing anything now, and God forbid some nimble law is starting to argue by accident, so that I don't know if my colleague Stier or Kovac are going to attack Plenkovic that it's not enough, big enough patriot. And that's why we are discussing this law today, not because the government has the will to discuss it or because the ruling in the assembly wants us to discuss it, but we have nothing else to discuss because the government hasn't given anything in the procedure for a month. That's why we're discussing it, and it's not on their mind that they might accept some idea of yours or yours or God forbid they fix something or give us something smart. And they're dealing with their choices now and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188507	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188508	Thank you very much. I have to agree with you. So, no, it's not, if it's someone else, I have to take a breath like this and all together to make it more interesting. But that's right, look at the agenda all week long, the opposition here proposals have this privilege of coming at a good time not only at 6 p.m. but either at 7 p.m. or at 7 p.m., but we're getting a good time, but what we can conclude is next. The government is in isolation, on full pay in isolation, and I guess that week will pass. I hope they have an election silence, so we'll make it a little easier for this Saturday and Sunday not all of us will be who said anything because it would be better if they had found each other, maybe if they had found themselves indoors and said what they had to say, but I hope Minister Maric, who is not a member of the HDZ, who has no right to vote on Sunday as much as I do. See, maybe he's doing something. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188509	Representative Tarritash is out of time. With this opening debate, the first person to report for participation in the debate is the SDP Representatives' Club, acting on their behalf by representative Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will without delay support this proposal, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support proposed by the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Because we believe that it greatly contributes to a better position of women in terms of equality at home, but also better access to the market, labour market, and not less importantly that it is clearly and unequivocally aligned with European directives specifically with a directive adopted in the European Parliament in April 2019, which is a directive on the harmonisation of business and private life, which sets minimum requirements for Member States with a view to achieving a greater number of women employed and strengthening the role of father or other parents in the family. I just don't understand how this government when it comes to other directives is very up-to-date, it's very spotty in the Croatian Parliament, we have a number of laws that come into the process by emergency procedure where we are in line with various European directives. However, when it comes to such a sensitive issue, but also about the issue which was the axis and spine of the HDZ pre-election programme in these elections, which is a demographic and innovative policy, then this government refuses to accept welcome proposals that need to improve demographics or should be an incentive for demographic intelligence policy in terms of greater women's disorientation and the creation of a prerequisite for better family planning, then this government is hypocritically saying, look, we are not going to, not only accept this proposal, a proposal coming from the opposition, no matter how high he was but we will not align ourselves with European directives, which is here, a classic case here. It's sad, it's sad, but about your policy and your seriousness in order to lead a strategically thought-out long-term family policy that needs to contribute to the birth of the state secretary in your government when he resigned publicly saying that what the government and the rest of the ministry are doing is a disgrace, unserious and sad show for the public. From the moment Mr. Strmota left you didn't do much to show and prove to the Croatian public that without the figs in your pocket you went with such a pre-election program and that you are seriously thinking about changing things in society. You have made a small step when we talk about financial support, money support or support, and therefore also money support when we talk about parental fees, but you have not kept a pre-election promise either because of the decommissioning you promised, the decommissioning of parental fees for the other 6 months of parental leave is no longer a sign of a voice, and that we will not experience it until the end of the term of office is the fact that in the budget projections for 2021. It's just N-E-M-A. Thank you for your increase in this 4th year. Parental cash, cash benefits during the period of parental leave on here, the other day increased slightly more than 5.00 kn, but that's not enough. There you focused on only one group, and we warned you here, only on the employees and the self-employed, you didn't even take care of the unemployed, you didn't care about the parents of the twins, you didn't take care of a number of other categories that you unfairly neglected, and that was what you were warned about during public consultation with the interested public, but also here in HS. However, since these criticisms came from the opposition or from the professional public, you simply disobeyed it. Too bad, it could've been better, it could've been a lot more serious. The fact is that, when we talk about the use of parental leave, according to HZZO data, there is a slightly greater increase in the number of male parents' leave in 2018. It was 7.55%, which would mean that 1475 users and men were using parental leave rights. And it's a slight increase, but it's not enough, it's so small and miserable. Compared to statistical indicators in other European countries, it again says that in the Republic of Croatia, we are among the EU's members amongst the least where men, among countries where men and fathers least use leave for, for children. Why is that? Well, that's what I mean in the Republic of Croatia. They already know the sparrows on the branch. Because in the Croatian patriarchal society, the spirit, in which most citizens are raised, where they still dominate such values, the woman remains primarily focused on children and child care, household and family life. But one of the reasons and reasons for this are precisely inadequate policies in the area of balance between business and private life. And now right now, the GLAS and HSU Club is trying to propose measures that would contribute to a better balance for a woman of family and professional life, which is a very common reason why fathers do not use parental leave alone to participate in responsible parenting, which is, after all, not only harmful to a woman but is to the greatest extent harmful to a child because, especially in the earliest stages of development, they need both father and mother regardless of what the mother is breast-feeding, the father cannot, can't breast-feed. The father is an unforgivable factor, an unforgivable factor in raising a child if the father has one, and we have to respect it and we have to ensure a better, better balance and this is one of the measures that GLAS proposes, which is actually positive, there's nothing in it, nothing controversial. We also proposed to you a year ago certain measures, the same measures, and you refused them. We have suggested that, with this possibility of using for 10 days, as GLAS, GLAS actually suggests, it means a greater balance of responsibility between fathers and mothers in caring for a newborn child, a better balance between business and private life, especially mother, a reduction of stereotype family roles, and an increase in the participation of women on, on the market, on the labour market, and there is this minimum European one, which we have talked about since 10, at least 10 working days in connection with the birth of a child, fatherly, fatherly leave. We also suggested that, for example, we allow the right to the day off for prenatal examination as the right of both parents, we also suggested that father and mother have the possibility of one day off when going to kindergarten or elementary school, which is extremely important, important dates and important days for everyone, for each parent for each child, each child, we also suggested that you use the right to work with half full-time until the third year of the child’s child’s age without health problems in agreement with the employer, we suggested that we, our proposal, was to introduce only father’s leave or father’s... that from working for 14 days, we are slightly different from GLAS, but the intensity is the same, which is used during the duration of mandatory maternity leave of mother or maternity leave, nothing, nothing, none of it is accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And neither will we, and unfortunately, here's how much we hear from you or the Voice, regardless of what has quite an opportunity to make between the first and the second readings some things important, in essence, changes. I really don't understand your logic and why that is. Here we have a young father, a colleague of Đujic, well he is in a different position than many fathers in the Republic of Croatia who may not have this much, this much income, but what the Law gives him, the opportunities it provides, the rights it gives him or what the law commits him to, and that he wants to participate in divided parenting and to facilitate his wife, unfortunately he does not have much of these government measures. I asked him a little while ago, listen, Sasha, you're going to use your parents' leave for another six months? And Sasha says, and look, it's not worth it to us. It's more cost-effective for us as a family, so we can raise a child, raise, feed, give him all he needs is to actually use a wife for all years. He's not the only one, he's a lot of fathers like that. And that's why we're talking about sharing parental, parental benefits. Okay, we've raised that level to 5.00 kuna, but as far as parents are concerned, let's watch how much fathers who earn more than 5,000,00 kuna and simply get paid because of budget planning, because of the number of children they're worth less, or families lose less, if she goes away, that family member who's less, less paid, who doesn't cross these 5,000,00 kunas. And by demining we would actually open up space to many fathers, and even some mothers who earn a lot more than 5,000,00 kuna, but let's not say they choose parenting because too much in their work, their work, and their return to the labour market can't wait for the nature of the job, or I can't afford that luxury of possibly planning another, another child. But you see, in Croatia there are some companies that are well organized and that are examples of good practice, you have, say, one Alliance for Gender Equality created in Croatia a year ago, it's a network of companies that advocate the increase in the number of women in the management and other places, equal wages for the same work, but also for the collapse of barriers between women and men in the business but also for the family world which, in fact, this family life is actually reflected in business life. So these companies, now there are 11 of them in that alliance, that I don't promote them here, let's say they allow their parents who used parental leave after using parental leave for the first month to work part-time for full-time, and for example fathers for a month paid leave for all dads, for all dads who use parental leave for another month paid leave so that a woman can go back to her job, and that they spend that time with a child, so they have this day off for fathers and mothers when a child goes to kindergarten or when they go to elementary school. Some companies in Croatia, here in particular in this case, in this first wave of 5 who employ 2,500 people, move these borders, move these barriers, realize that a satisfied employee is key to their company's progress, and in order for the employee to be satisfied to have a settled, arranged situation at home, must have services that will enable him to be committed to work when at work, to share the responsibility between women and men at home so that they can work equally on their own, their jobs. So that we can also learn from some private companies, we can also apply these examples to our laws, we can only copy-pate-ate them, and that this proposal by GLAS, we support it, and we hope that between the first and second readings will seriously consider these proposals and that it will not only be political because it comes from this side of the Assembly to reject everything that can be good, not only for women and men in Croatia, but in general for, for respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also for respecting positive havens that are very much understood why they are important in the European Union, but unfortunately we are not ready to apply them, in Croatia when it comes to such positive steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188511	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by MP Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188512	I would like to thank the chairman, the honourable proposings, the secretary of state and the co-workers. Well, we've already discussed maternity and parental benefits several times in this House, and I think we've all agreed on one thing, that equal parenting is the goal that we need to achieve in the future. I am glad that there is still an interest in this topic regardless of which side of the Assembly he was coming from, but we are also very aware of the fact that the Directive that binds us and which will be an integral part at one point in our legislation, will enter into our legislation, only a matter of time. I would also like to point out this once again that in the last ten years this government has on two occasions been able to raise maternity and parental benefits, which is very important for young families. It will remind us that the changes took place in the first of 2017, and these other changes, which will increase the parental fee to 5600 kn, will take place from 1 April of this year for self-employed and employed parents. What I think we all agreed about is that these changes and these kind of financial expenditures are very important for every young family. We also believe that this increase will allow fathers to become more involved in caring for a newborn child. The fact that we are a traditional society has already been emphasized several times here. Yes, and we still need to work on this traditional society. The fact is that one measure will not encourage our parents or our fathers to immediately engage in caring for their newborn child. I also think that at one point when a father's leave is introduced, whether it lasts for 5, 10, 14 days, no matter how long it lasts, in some ways it might make it easier for our mothers. However, here are the colleagues who mentioned in their proposal for legislation that this is in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive. But just as the government itself says, it is necessary to regulate the details and conditions for the exercise of this right, therefore the right to father’s leave. And it is very clear that the introduction into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia of that Directive will include the regulation of institutes such as the father's leave. And what I would point out and what I would mention again, that the government supported the basic objective of the directive, which is to empower the family. I have often heard in some discussions that women have compulsory part of maternity leave, this mandatory part of maternity leave should only point out one fact that it is not something that punishes them, but there are certain medical and health reasons why they are bound to be on 28 or 45 days of leave before a certain period or 70 days after delivery. I personally consider as a mother and as a gynecologist that during this period it is very important that women have the support of both their families and their entire society as a whole. So it's kind of always an initiative that a child needs both a father and a mother and that we should always support it and keep the family together especially when it comes to a newborn child. We have pointed out here several times that for normal growth and child development it is extremely important that both father and mother participate in these earliest days. So I believe that at the time when the directive is also an integral part of Croatian legislation, it will not only remain on paper and that our fathers will really use this institution of father leave and that they will use it in a way that will help their partners, their wives and that they will care for their children. In previous discussions on equal parenting on several occasions, about how women are unequal in the labour market, yes, we can agree on that, but also here I've looked at the assembly and you've all been members of certain governments, so it's not something that happened from yesterday to today, it's something that's been going on for many years and we can't quite say that we're standing in the same place all the time, I think we've moved a little bit on the women in the labour market. If it's a little harder for mothers, we can agree there, I can say it from my own experience. But I also don't have the impression at this point that you emphasized on several occasions, that the government rejects absolutely all the ideas that come from this other side of the assembly, that we can discuss everything, that we can, of course, be democratic society and we need to discuss it and this is one of those examples. I would just point out that through the directive it is further said to propose both flexible working hours and slightly different working conditions. We need to be aware of the fact that this flexible working time or work from home in some of the titles will not in any way be able to realize, of course there are certain titles where this power will be exploited, but I believe that in one great majority, unfortunately we will not reach power. And let's not think that all of what we're talking about here and where we want a much more equal and quality position of a woman in society, we can achieve overnight. Traditional role of woman, mothers will stay and become a while in the Republic of Croatia. In one more piece, you mentioned yourself, which is not even my area, the parent adoptor. To me as a mother and as a woman, as far as your adoption leave is concerned, it seems to me that few adoptors have been placed in a different position than biological parents, especially as far as the labour market itself is concerned, and we know that biological parents have that option for up to 8 years of age. I always think that the proposals must be constructive, you go in that direction, but what needs to be pointed out, that the laws are not being passed that you know very well, by tomorrow, they don't come overnight, they have to be complete and they have to be useful to those end users, so to speak, so at this point we won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188513	HNS representatives' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name should be spoken Agent Stephen Curaj, who is not here, so he loses his right to speak. After that, representative Sasa Djujic applied for individual participation in the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here's what I can say at the beginning, except that I'm going to support this proposal from GLAS law, and I think it's a good proposal and a good solution, and that's why I'm even more incomprehensible than why the government doesn't accept or at least didn't show itself in a way to say this is a good idea, and that's why we can't adopt it now, but we're going to be keeping an account of it, so we're going to put it in some sort of plan when we can go, we're going to go this way to this resolution. I will now look back on what my colleague said before me that this government has increased to two times the fees and that's good, and when this last amendment was about 5.5 thousand kunas, I commended it, and I think that's fine, but I think we should as a society and as a country tend to fully devise compensation because it's the solution and the key to everything, and I said that in the debate on the government's proposal a month, two days ago. So, in budget projections and financial costs for 2021, '22, '23. There is no increase in the item for these fees, and therefore I conclude that the government has no plan at all to de-mining, de-mining for the next three, four years, and that cost you nothing. So you put in '21, '22. Or '23. The plan to increase and say here we are now raising to 5.5 in our plan in the future is a complete increase because to demigate the fees then this proposal by a colleague from GLAS would be much, much closer to reality because then fathers would more often decide on this step because we now had Women's Day a few days ago in Croatia and then we got data and figures. Women are underpaid in Croatia, women work for less wages, women are much harder and all this is one result of this whole complex problem called demographics. So, that's why women usually go on this leave because men have higher incomes and men get, it's ugly to say, financially doesn't pay to go on maternity leave, because the family loses less if the woman is there, and unfortunately in conditions where you have the cost of diapers, food and all that parenting results in the cost of living out of it, then you have to look at every kuna. And that's why it's happening, and unfortunately as a state and as a legislator, we should look at the child's position and what's best for the child, and for the child, it's best that he has a father and mother with him. And both father and mother follow the development and growth of that child. And in that direction, we should make laws, and in that direction, we should make some kind of solutions. Today, when we look at the list of rights that families, parents, mothers, fathers have, then Croatia has a whole series of rights. You have the right to do this, you have the right to do that, and that's what I was talking about during the last debate. So here it says that, let's say, a woman has the right to 100% salary if she goes to sick leave for a sick child, which in practice is not true. Because he's entitled to 100% but no more than 4,000 and some kuna. And then let's say a woman who works for six, seven, 8,000 kunas that month gets half a salary or less, then it's not 100%, then it's, it's called fraud. That's one example, for example. We have other options, let's say we have situations that families have to, for example. We now had a teacher strike a few months ago that everyone had already forgotten, I was at a meeting of employers where they said, look, parents had to take sick and fake those things because they didn't have anywhere to leave the children. These are the same problems young families face. My colleague Maras has been dragging kids to work with him for a month. He can do it. He has parents who can't do it. I used to bring my child into the assembly with me and let her down at the club, everyone was nannying her I know that some other colleagues in the assembly knew how to do it, while I'd have a debate because I didn't have other options where with the child. In the European Parliament, there is a kindergarten for child representatives, let's say when we talk about MPs. Some companies here are Ericsson Nikola Tesla, as far as I know, who have the possibility of babysitting as part of their company. The state should encourage this, encourage co-financing of perhaps those companies that do so. These are all some of the series of measures that could make it easier for parents to live, but what we can do is let's say I'll come back again, the total decommissioning fee is one, one of the key measures that could do a lot, a lot of things on this matter. And there's that grudge, so it's a great honor for this government to do it twice, but no government in the last 15, 20 years has had any financial conditions to do it in this way like this government. So we boast of huge incomes, low interest rates, for the first time we don't spend more than we make, these are all the things that this government points out as positive things when we look at financial situations. Don't nod your co-workers out there and scold 'cause that's how you boast, and your mouth in government is full of how you've never been better, how we're growing, how everything's great, and then we fall on these examples. Why didn't you plan that in a year, two, three days, let's say you try to share it so it can change, but then you see some intention. And any government to put on parental benefits, on the matter of helping children, parents some kind of plan for a year, two, three days I guarantee you that no political option would question that. So, if this government said now we're going to raise to 5.5 and we're going to complete demerition in 2021, '22. and '23. I guarantee you the SDP wouldn't argue with that. And in a few months, when we take responsibility for Croatia, then we wouldn't shut it down because it brought HDZ, but we would continue, or we will do it when we come to the hair. We'll do it in a few months is when you're not doing it right now. So these are things to see some kind of will and to see some intention, something you can, something that doesn't cost anything, will, plan, but you didn't do it. So there's a lot of things that could still be done and that would have to be done. So I support this proposal by my colleagues from GLAS, I think there are even more proposals, even more comprehensive measures that could be done to make life easier for young parents and to be able to work on these demographic measures, cities and municipalities do a lot of work, but yet the difference is from the city to the city, as much as anyone can, through the subsidisation of kindergartens, through compensation for a newborn child, through some things, but let's say we have a real sector. Privates don't all do what they should, therefore, civil servants and tenants also have some compensation under the collective contract they receive, they also get from HZZO, some help to obtain child equipment, etc., let's say private firms, those mothers and fathers who work in private companies can't, say, use these benefits as some in the public sector. Now let's say that this state can encourage it, to tax-deliver those companies that will help young parents financially so that that part of the untaxable, let's say, and it stimulates it in some way, but that, let's say, that would be some responsible policy, or I would expect the government to come before us and say this is a package of measures that we're going to do, financially now, that, that, and that, and the plan is to do it over the next 5 or 10 years, that, that, that, that, and that. And work in that direction. And then it would be some kind of strategy and some kind of plan and some kind of demographic policy, and this is the good part, but it's a very, very weak and very, very little, and then this kind of proposal that comes from a fellow GLAS who basically equals fathers and mothers, where it allows a child to have a father and a mother with growing up and to make it easier for that family education to essentially for some incoherent reason to refuse. Here, I didn't get the argument why this bill was rejected by a fellow GLAS fellow. So it's not said anywhere that he's bad, that he's wrong and that he doesn't need it, but there's just no solid argument why it's being rejected and I don't think it's good. I will support this proposal, speak again, and support any proposal that makes it easier for parents to raise their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188515	Thank you. Pedja Grbin's representative asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Giujic. What fascinates me in all of this is the fact that in some other situations where the mouth is full of claims that parents must be father and mother, that a child must have a father and mother, whose representatives even went with a bill that, if there is no father, mother and child, it is not a family at all, today when such a bill comes before them, they say no. And when you ask what they're doing it for, I'll remind you of the situation from a few weeks ago. We had a discussion about the ban on single plastic products, everyone in Croatia knows, not only in Croatia, in the world, that India forbids, etc., everyone knows that it is necessary, but the answer of the ruling, the response from HDZ is no. And why is that? Because that's what the opposition suggested. Same thing, The same thing is here today. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188517	Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188518	That is exactly how fellow Grbin and what is even more regrettable, let's say, the opposition makes some good proposals, such as this proposal, such as, you mentioned the other day of the ban on plastic use and then the government says not only because the opposition proposes it, and then within a few months or a year, Europe or the EU Commission or the EU Parliament will order us to do something like this, then it will be okay. And we're going to do it under orders, and we're not seeing for ourselves at this point some solutions that are good, that we might even make them before European norms. So why shouldn't Europe prescribe some things for us, why don't we bring ourselves some regulations that are good for our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188519	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188520	Dear counterpart Djujic, so clearly why the HDZ government didn't even have the intention of changing it and adopting some of the good things this GLAS proposal shows. It also shows the attitude towards adoptors because times the mouth is governments and the mouth is full of ministers to adopt children, we see what the results of adoption of children are, and this proposal by GLAS is going after this and that adoptors have the same rights and those who have their biological children, however, here is also not being done. On the other hand, and this view of the government is about family and men and women on this point, it's obvious that women should be at home, having children, and that men are the ones who care about family, and that's one patriarchal attitude that this government has been pushing through society from the start, and probably that's one of the reasons why they didn't want to accept. These amendments to the law. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188521	Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188522	Well, fellow Mrsic, I agree with you, and one thing is, this is another example where this government is saying one thing, and then in practice, when it can change or do something, it does something completely different and does something the opposite of what they're saying. So their mouths are full of equality, equalising women and men, rights, all possible groups, and then when one law comes like this where there's no too much argument that he refuses, the government says no, the government says he can't. Now that's this government, one thing they do, another they speak, and the third they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188523	Representative Sabina Vosovac has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188524	Dear Djujic, you said something about the benefits during the duration of the illness and the injustice towards some parents, however, many parents who are appalled in fact by the fact that they are denied the right to be sick while their children are hospitalized. So this is often, a common phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia where the interpretation of the law, or certain regulations, is such that while the child is in the hospital, he has professional hospital care and does not need parental care in the sense that the parent is allowed to be sick and in many cases it is interpreted as such, which is totally unsatisfactory. Neither the child can be teleported only to the hospital, nor does it really happen that the child is in the hospital without being visited by the parent, and spends time with him, but it happens and it is the same injustice unfortunately indicated, but it does not change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188525	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188526	Yeah, it's an injustice and I can tell you again from my experience that no child's care without parents in the hospital means anything. So, a child when he's in the hospital, unfortunately when he's done there, then if he's not with a parent or both of his parents, it's also trauma and it can't replace any medical care, and that's where we moved from that stone age. So, a lot of things change, medicine progresses, here I am, you've said myself to the French father twice, so we're now, I've been having a baby with my wife the whole time and there was a C-section, I was present and there, which was a year ago, two days ago unimaginable, so in Rijeka it's possible, the wife was born on a C-section, the second day she was released from the hospital. Sometimes if you went to the C-section you were 7, 8 or 10 days in the hospital, etc., if you give birth naturally and if everything is okay, you go home the second day, so today medicine and the world progresses, as well as the presence of parents with a child, and the state prevents it from changing its laws and restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188527	Representative Grozdana Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188528	Comrade Djujic, you are more than hypocritical when you say that this government has done nothing, has not done enough and has achieved what it has promised in its programme, so when you look only at the fact that the fees have tripled, when you are very carefully planning and looking at every detail in respecting and maternity, parental benefits, family, organization of life, construction of kindergartens, kindergartens, co-financing of preschools, etc. And then you say that this government didn't do anything, and at the same time your government reduced the incomes of local self-government units from income tax by 30%, you forgot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188529	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188530	My colleague Peric, I didn't say that at all, that this government has done nothing, and thank you for insulting me another time, but at some point, obviously you have me on some pick, and still, it's not a problem at all, if anyone is hypocritical then you're hypocritical because you told me the other day that I don't understand anything because I'm young and that as a young man of this I guess I'm not enough, I guess you're not as smart as I am because I'm younger than you came in here, that's what you said here. So you discredited me by age and by age, and now you're calling here for full care of young people, families, etc. And I'm not hypocritical because I didn't say that, so listen up. I said a moment ago that every honor to this government had on several occasions raised parental fees and that it had raised the fee to five and a half, but that it would have wished it had shown its intention to raise it in the future and that it had put it in the plan. And don't tell me I said something I didn't say. If we're gonna talk [[Intruder: Time's up]] who has done what the Government has done, [[Intruder: Thank you]] How many of your governments have stolen the Republic of Croatia and your cartridges there [[Employer: Representative Djujic...]] The goddess of Calmeta, [[Employer: Representative Djujic]] Think about it a little bit. [[Employer: Representative Djujic...]] Like a hypocrite, that's it. [[Please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188531	You deserve a warning, you just got a warning. I beg you, you have the right to speak, use it, use it politely, there you go. Thank you. Representative Vlaovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188532	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Đujic, you are right, the Government should have adopted this bill because the European Directive also requires it, and when it had no better proposal, it could have done this nomotechnically, and you have made a fine example of how units of local self-government by example, do their activities more for the demographic renewal of their areas than the Government of the Republic of Croatia can and needs. For example, the municipalities of Bosniaks, Caglin, Nova Kapela, which each year increase amounts for a newborn child, pay kindergarten, pay or co-finance students, firstly co-finance the first real estate purchase of families, and which tells you that here are municipalities and cities cannot wait for government initiatives, so they take the initiative themselves, and what should then be continued when the government does not have such initiatives, increase fiscal capacity to units of local and regional self-government or continue fiscal decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188533	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188534	Thank you, thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaovic's, exactly that, units of local self-government in a lot of middles jump in, jump in with various measures. For example, here in my town you get 5.00 kn for every newborn child, for example. It is much fiscally weaker than e.g. The city of Zagreb where it is obtained, I don't know, 1,800,00 kn how much I've heard of this, for every newborn child in wars, for example. I get it in Novi Vinodolski 5.00 kn for every child, here's to not be hypocritical there is HDZ in power, so it doesn't turn out to be me criticizing them, for example. On the other hand, in my kindergarten in my town, you don't have to wash your hands with ash, we have soap, we have paper, so let's say that's okay, which is for example. in some cities where the coalition partner of this government is crucial. Then let's just say we don't have to carry in our kindergarten, I don't know, money, paper or stuff, in our kindergarten kids have what they need, there's no waiting list, there's nothing, e.g. This is one example of how some small cities with weaker fiscal capacity can do much to make their parents’ lives much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188535	Thank you. The next debate is the respected representative of Marija Mačković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188536	Honorable Vice President HS, respected and respected state secretaries with a co-worker, MPs and MPs. As regards the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support submitted to the President by the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU by the Act of 9 May '19. The proposal proposes that the bill will ensure a balance of responsibility between fathers and mothers in caring for a newborn child, a better balance between business and private life, especially mothers, a reduction of stereotype family roles, and an increase in the participation of women in the labour market, and another equal treatment before the law and all adoptors and their adopted children. The proposal proposes the introduction of mandatory father's leave for 10 days during the first 70 days of the newborn life as well as his father's parental leave for 2 months at the same time as the duration of his mother's parental leave or, apart from that time, if the family so fits. It is also proposed to exercise the right of adoptors to parental leave and financial support in cases where a child older than 8 years is adopted. The proposal calls for the EU's Parliament and Council Directive on the balance between the business and private lives of parents and care providers. The directive was adopted on 1.8.2019, and the deadline for implementation is 1.8.2022. For the public and for the available data, e.g. Finnish fathers have a father's leave that lasts for 9 weeks and receive 70% of the salary in Portugal, leave lasts for 5 weeks, and fathers get full salary, as well as Spanish get full salary which lasts 4 weeks, in France, Denmark and Estonia, father leave lasts 2 weeks with full salary, while in Belgium, it lasts as much but with 90% salary, and in Slovenia father leave lasts 30 days. We all agree that demographic renewal is the priority of this government as well as of all of us who have discussed today, the protection of motherhood, the protection of motherhood, the evaluation of women on the labour market and the safer and more stable financial independence of every family. In addition, the government also established a council for demographic revitalisation, which also held its 7th session at the end of January of this year and chaired by the Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, and where almost all ministers were present, with the aim of implementing the demographic policy measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because demographic policy is not a measure that can be improved or improved from today to tomorrow. It's a series of measures that last for a decade. In this regard, it should be said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure and the final proposal for a law on which we have already discussed amendments to the Law on maternity and parental assistance, which is proposed to increase the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave, another 6 months. So for employees and self-employed parents with 102% of the budget base at 170, so from 3.991,20 kuna to 5.654,20 kuna, and for the first 6 months if this right is used by this single parent or the first 8 months if both parents use it for the first 6 months is the full amount to be obtained. Therefore, fathers can be included in the use of that maternity leave. In addition, an increase in the maximum amount of salary compensation will include the use of parental leave rights in case of death of a child employed or self-employed mother. It also changes the duration of the previous insured or self-employed parent as a condition for the exercise of the right in such a way as to reduce the duration of previous insurance to make it more favourable for the users of the right, meaning instead of 12 months of continuous proposing 9 months and 18 months, respectively, and with interruptions over the last 2 years, it is proposed 12 months with interruptions in the last 2 years. And for that amount, which is scheduled to apply from 1 April 2020, the government allocated significant financial resources to more than 160 million kuna and for the period of '21, '22. Over 214 million kuna. As regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Birth and Parent Support to the Proposer of the GLAS Club and HSU, which we are currently discussing and which has been shown by the Government's representative, the State Secretary and the reasons why this bill cannot be accepted, and it is specifically said that this proposal is not specifically related to all the specific articles, which are precisely what and how the exact ratio of such support would be, in which amounts and other things need to be defined and certain resources that need to be allocated. Also, there have been a lot of debates today, and most MPs have turned to it as if demographic restoration was not the government's priority, which is not true. Because within these recent years, this government has taken significant steps to increase parental fees twice as well as to increase child allowance rates and according to information available on the website of the competent ministry compared to 3 years regardless of emigration and everything else has increased the number of family users and the particular number of children using these support. The State Secretary also did not say in her presentation, not that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not act and act under a directive adopted by the Council of Europe, or from, to that deadline that is in some way envisaged in 2022, so she did not say and cannot be said that the Government is not doing anything and will not do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188537	Thank you very much. We have one replica, and before that I have to conclude, and I'm not going to interrupt the session, even if we don't have this proposal, which is not common, and usually this one is very rebelling when there's no proposing, and now for some time there's no proposings in the hall, but I'm still not going to interrupt the session, so I think we'd better continue, so the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188538	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mačković, in your debate, you talked about examples of European countries or about the participation of fathers and the use of leave and fees when fathers use this parental leave, we can all agree, here and last week we discussed the proposal for this law on maternity and parental support proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that demographics is a big problem and that any measure that comes and where it is invested in the family, the children are welcome, but with measures of national policy, the measures of local and regional units, local and regional units are very important, and only if, together with national politics and our cities and municipalities follow this measure, we certainly can do much better and more, and by investing towns and municipalities in demographic reconstruction, we will certainly stop the departure of young people from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188539	Thank you. Dear representative Mačković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188540	You're right... Because I have to say that the units of local self-government and those which, by financial capacity, are not exactly under-intentioned, invest considerable resources, but I have to say, here's a positive example that the Ministry and demographics have had one contest that could have reported units of local self-government related to co-financing of children's kindergartens, which are definitely those units and those leaders who are caring and having their kindergartens, and they are trying to have their kindergartens, with the goal of not changing their parents' residence so that their children can go to other cities, so I think that soon they will be able to sign these contracts, and in this way they will also allow a significant number of children to go to kindergartens, and also local self-government units are giving benefits for new children, co-finance textbooks, give students and grant student scholarships, which is also demographic measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188541	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188542	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This is the second time we have discussed this topic in a short time, I find it extremely important, I am glad that when we talked about past amendments to the Law that there was an agreement in the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me that all clubs will support the proposal, I am sorry that there is no agreement today, but it is, it is no longer an exception, it is a rule in the Croatian Parliament that all, all proposals coming from the opposition simply refuse. Why am I going to support this proposal? It seems to me even, I would not say that this is a symbolic level when we talk about ten days, would not even use an argument, later on I will say, that in many countries it has proved to be useful, but to say one argument that perhaps we should bear in mind at this point, this bill, this change will be adopted very quickly, believe me, very soon it will be adopted. Why is that? So for a purely reason, because if we want to achieve the goal, we have spoken in past amendments to the law, and that goal is the position, the equal position of women in the labour market, but now only women, but families, now we can talk about families. Let's once again point out from the beginning, women in the Republic of Croatia are harder to hire than men, women are harder to advance than men, the position in the working relationship that stems from this particular fact, here's when we talk about, about the birth of a child, women putting in, in a worse position on the market. And finally what's most important for the context of this debate, and that's the pay gap. If we look at the European Commission that has shown us, and in diagrams where it is very clearly seen, no small distance of time has been taken, but they have taken 5 years apart before birth, and 5 years after the birth of the first child, in Denmark, watch out for developed countries, in Denmark women's income drastically declines during that time, men are practically constant. In Sweden in the first, after, immediately after birth, they fall drastically, somewhat later recover. In the United States, it's interesting that men's incomes fall after parenting. In Great Britain, the women are again very much, quite evident, we're talking about income means their salaries, in Austria we have the same significant jump after, the fall after birth, after a small recovery, and it's similar in Germany. So, these measures, even though they're talking about ten days of male maternity leave, have significantly larger and significantly, significantly, in a time sense significantly stronger effects. Research... It has shown, and this research has been done very precisely because, in countries, income has been taken from the average salary, time spent in household jobs, not only in household jobs, in care of older people, for the powerless, for children, you know what it has shown?, that women's unpaid household work is worth at least $10.9 billion a year, to show this figure a little more plastic, that is around 100 budgets of the Republic of Croatia, 100 years of the budget of the Republic of Croatia women by their work, unpaid labour earnings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is more than the income of 50 largest companies including Google, Amazon, McDonald's, so I will point out once again, I support this proposal because it is going in the right direction towards gender equality, but it is only one small step in a series of laws and measures that Croatia must introduce to facilitate the burden that is currently falling on women, which is a more equal distribution of child care and household jobs. In the Report on the Republic of Croatia for 2020, the European Commission warned us that Croatia is falling behind more and more compared to... The aim of sustainable development, gender equality, in the report writes the reasons why women do not participate in the labour market, including responsibility for other home affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This reflects the low rates of participation of children in early and preschool education and a small number of parents and father leave users among men. The 2015 data show that 1/3 women in the Republic of Croatia took several days to care for older people or relatives with disabilities, which is among the higher stakes in the EU. Note this part of the European Commission report when it says that for this reason it is reflected that a small number of children participated in early and preschool education. We are here in the debate, and it should be welcomed, there has been a number of kindergartens built, but now the question is, if the incomes of households fall significantly, so the families, how will they finance the accommodation of children in these newly built kindergartens and someone here is right, it has been mentioned repeatedly, whether local self-government units will have the capacity to do those, to perform where parents do not have enough funds. What is most important in this story is that the Republic of Croatia has one of the lowest employment rates for women on the labour market, only 60% of women in working age and able to work on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be kept in mind in the context of this debate, so this step in which men would have a mandatory part of the use of maternity leave, for 10 days, would certainly have, and this has been shown by countries in, many and advanced countries in the environment, would have affected that men would also take on greater women's rights when, when using these rights, because, in the case of maternity leave, women's income falls, they end up with contributions, contributions, and later pensions. To say hello, once again, I will stress that measure certainly 6 months of recognition of the child's internship, which is an extremely good measure, but in order to achieve the ultimate goal, we will have to pull a larger number of measures. And another thing that is, and in the context of last debate, I mentioned, in Sweden, for example. 45% of parental leave recipients are men, in the Republic of Croatia only 4.5% of parental leave recipients are men, we're talking about parental leave, so not maternity leave. And once again I'm going to point out why it's like that, you're probably clear to all of you, just because, watch out for 4.5%, the assumption is 4.5% of men have less wages than their wives. Now, that's the key, the key to the answer, and the key to all the efforts that we have to make in the future for women to be equal, first and foremost in the labour market, and then in raising children. This legal proposal will be supported by counterpart Anka Dark Taritash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188543	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188544	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Žagar, you have raised one very important question, and this is a question of the value of the work of a person who takes care of a child, as well as of an elderly parent. In the Republic of Croatia it is a completely unrecognized and unknown category. It comes down to a simple family relationship, something that has to be taken for granted. Of course, every modern government, every government that wants to recognize the moment we live and do this will not take this for granted, but will try and turn it into a demographic measure. How do you make it easier for women to live an extra life? How do you further acknowledge only that work that invests in this society, in the family, without having to worry about its own existence? And that is why only when we recognize and value this work, including money, will we be able to say in the right sense, we fully respect women and their work and contribution to society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188545	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188546	Thank you. Dear counterpart Klisovic, never, is my opinion that whatever measures we want to achieve, society will never be allowed to interfere with other people's families, away from other people's family and other people's beds. But what we can notice in Croatian society, and that, I don't know if there are any research, but at first, it's quite visible that young people are getting into the marriage community all the time, and all the later they decide to have children, and that may be the only reason that fear of new obligations, which are needed, is for, above all, to raise and educate a child because they are, some say a small child care, a great care, simply at those moments, especially from the point of view of women, if their income is significantly reduced then it is certainly a factor that is not motivated for parenting, for responsible parenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188547	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188548	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So here today we're actually talking about equal parenting. Equal parenting must be something that is based, of course, on the agreement of parents themselves, and in this context, the solution we offer must not be rigid, we simply deal with living people, we do not deal with machines. But what is important for the state to provide a framework for equal parenting in which they will be able to make the best decisions within a family. And they'll only be able to bring in that moment if none of the parents are in that arrangement in a subordinate position. And today we're actually trying to reduce another element that brings a woman into a child's position. Many colleagues here have said that salaries or incomes of women who are smaller than men's incomes are the main reason why women decide on leave, not men, why they go on parental leave. That's to some extent true, we know that in the public sector the salaries are determined by law, by any civil servants, by any subsistence, by any people in the public service. I didn't see any gender discrimination coming, so the same wages get women as men do. Therefore, in the context of 250,000 people working in the public sector, there is therefore no such discrimination and yet in the sector dominantly on parental leave are women and not men. So the pay obviously isn't the only one although it's an important element, but what our colleague on behalf of the Sabina Voter Club has pointed out here, probably that patriarchal mentality that dominates our country is dominant here as well. But the public sector, we can boast that wages are equal because the law defines them but in the private sector they are obviously not. Is what I'm interested in, what does your ministry, which is in charge of both the family and the young and the demographics and the demographic restoration, mean to make that spirit change in our private sector? That even in our private sector, entrepreneurs recognize equal work in the same job as women and men and value it with the same pay? So this is something that not only should be run by one ministry of labour or the economy of care but also by the Ministry of Demography, family and youth because it directly belongs to the category of people you are in charge of. Women also have a problem if they're working on a contract for a certain time. When it comes to finding out that they are pregnant, that they may no longer be at work for a while, they are automatically thinking that they will be replaced and that their work contract will no longer be extended. Now, how does your ministry think about jumping into such business practices in the Croatian economy, do you refer to that too, do you have any plan, programme measures, anything to change these things? Also, today in the debate, what I can testify from personal experience, many people approach me alone, that when women apply for work, if they are young, they are asked whether they are planning a family, when they say yes, that it is automatically a factor for getting a job. Another very bad demographic practice in our business world that your ministry should react to, and I wonder if you have any plans and in this sense how to get to such bad business practices in the Croatian economy. Women tell me they feel very bad when they return to their jobs because they feel guilty, that they just haven't been there for a year, that the company had to do without them, you didn't contribute, etc. It certainly is not compatible with what we want in this society, and it is a demographic reconstruction, a greater number of children, happier families and therefore happier employees at work. And again we return to employers and their bad practices or colleagues and their relationship with each other who is not a good di obviously certain education is needed but someone that education must run. It's the state's bodies that have to do it. Now we go back to that replica question I asked, which is a matter of sickness benefits that women receive or do not receive, apparently, after returning from maternity leave. So when a woman is on maternity leave, she gets maternity benefits, not her own salary. When she gets back to her job, and the child gets sick, say, right after she gets back to work, she needs to get paid for a sick leave that counts on the basis of what she pays. If you didn't get paid because you were getting maternity benefits, then there's no basis for that sick leave. So they tell me they're getting 0 kunas of those first six months, so if that's really possible, please tell me, to confirm or disprove if that's really true. As for the breakdown of maternity or maternity benefits, also, yes, 100%, to a certain level of pay, then there is another loss of salary if you are on sick leave for a child. So that's what my moms tell me if I go for a kid on sick leave, I lose my salary, one mother says, 360 kuna. If I go to sickbay for myself, I lose, by day I even think, pay 50 kuna. So how does it cost me a sick child more than I am sick? What kind of demographic measure is this, what kind of demographic policy is this, is demographic policy really a self-insulated policy, or is demographic policy a policy if it has to be integrated into all other policies run by one government, one state, one society, especially that state and society that declares demographic restoration and demography as a key state priority? Mothers say we're done listening. We listen to one thing and the other is working in practice, can it be in the EU country that tries to impose demographics and demographic renewal of Europe as a priority of the EU? Those countries are EU Commissioner in charge of demographics coming from Croatia, what were we very happy and happy about? How does your ministry succeed or try to bring demographically oriented thinking into the public policy of all other ministries? Here we have mentioned how important it is to introduce this into thinking in the Ministry of Economy or in the economic policy of this country, so that it can be poured into the business world, into the entrepreneurs of our country? To change the practices so far that have dominated and which are bad for both the young family and young parents and for the demographic restoration of our country? Let's not push it under the carpet, let's not just think that at the Ministry of Demography, young people, families, etc., we'll come up with some action plan, some measures or strategies, and now that's it. It is a dead paper if it is not implemented in life and it will not be implemented unless the spirit of demographicism is brought to life in all other public policies and therefore I ask you to tell me exactly how your ministry of demographic measures and thinking is pushing into public policies that are formed in other ministries that are responsible for others but have their decisions a direct reflection on families, on young people, on parenting, on the demographic restoration of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188549	Thank you very much. And the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic. And I'm sorry, I didn't see you have a line. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188550	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, why is it important to share the fees? You mentioned here that in the public sector in fact women and men are equally paid so that it is not such a problem. Yeah, that's the problem here, too. So look at how many women use maternity leave, so those in the public sector are these 6 months. when they have a 100% salary fee and another 6 months. When it's smaller, then they come back to work even though they shouldn't be working at that point because it's not good for them or for the child. So that's one problem. If we take statistics that in Croatia from 2017 until today, the average age of the firstborn is 30 years, that highly educated women decide later on motherhood, this all indicates that the measures we have in the country and the situation in which we are located are not sufficient and that there is a need to strengthen this and that women's rights should not be a restriction on the decision to have a motherhood. Here's to short.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188551	The answer of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188552	Thank you very much. So when I talked about equal wages in the public sector, it was just to warn that in the private sector is actually a fundamental problem of pay inequality. You say women get lost because their wages are less when they get back to work. Well, if a man had gone on parental leave as well, he would have been less paid, so in the home budget, the same hole would have been created. So it's not that problem, the problem is that even a hole occurs in the home family budget, and I'm also in agreement with you that you don't need to share the fees, you need to leave them without a limit, and that's a key demographic measure. But what I wanted to warn you is that we don't let the private sector go, just like that to ourselves because they're the private sector and we don't care about them, but to try to change these business practices that go to the harm of young people, young families, young parents and young women, and I've listed a few cases of employment opportunities if we plan a family to a lower salary that they get obviously for their work compared to a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188553	Thank you very much. The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the demographic policy that this government boasts is being broken through maternity and parental compensation and what is seen from all these government procedures in this period when HDZ is in power, that only raising maternity benefits does not solve the problem, we still have fewer children born than the number of deaths, and that apparently the measures that go only to raise the amount of the maternity and parental maternity benefits are not the only tool that should lead to the demographic renewal of Croatia. The problem of Croatia and parents' decisions to have children is deeper than whether in the second part of maternity leave there will be more or less compensation. I don't doubt that's one of the important reasons, but it's certainly not something that's primarily going to make people have more than two children, and apparently the government and the ministry have missed the entire demographic policy because what the government has presented has not come to life, or if it has come to life, has not led to its effects. The government and her HDZ colleague boasted about the successes that the government had made, how much money she had given for this, how much money against it, but it's clear to everyone that only pumping funds will not lead to our demographic policy being better and that we have more than 2.1 children than we have so far. Croatia needs this, without it we will have a problem in economic development, we will have a problem with demographic restoration and there is also an issue of immigration, immigration policy, the question of whether our society is ready for this immigration policy and simply the restoration of Croatia is crucial and I am sorry that this government has missed 4 years without doing anything. The problem of the position of women in society is not of this government, it has been for many years and what characterizes this period at which HDZ is in power is that the gap between the salaries of women and men is greater than it was before. We boasted for many years that the gap between women and men's salaries is about half as much as in Europe, half as in Europe, was about 8%, in Europe about 16%, but the latest data from 2018 show that the pay gap between men and women in Croatia is somewhere at 13%, so 1.86 gross wages per year make more money for the same job and therefore for the same job that men do. And these are the key things that are important for the demographic policy itself, but they are still breaking up because after they have less wages, they have less compensation in that period when they are on maternity leave, they take care of family members, and ultimately, when they retire, their pensions are for the same job, for the same job less than they are for men's pensions. I am therefore sorry that the Government did not listen to this good proposal from GLAS colleagues who are going to make it more equal to the position of women and men in Croatian society unless the government wants to continue on the same path that perhaps their right wing in HDZ and colleagues here in the Parliament who represent the opinion that a woman must stay at home and that a woman must take care of children and husband and that her husband is the one who earns, if she does not want to continue with this policy, but it seems with this explanation why this bill is not accepted is clearly visible which policy this government wants to implement. Because equating women and men and in this period of maternity after childbirth is something that all countries in Europe do, but yes, they also work in a better way than this government does, is just rechargeing money won't lead to more men going to maternity leave, which is, therefore, benefiting maternity leave. Because the thing is that things have to change in society, that simply in society there has to be acceptable that a man uses maternity leave and that's not something that's rare, which requires headlines in the paper, articles about those people who decided to use maternity leave instead of women. And that's what the government was supposed to work on, but it wasn't. And not only is it not, but it's simple and now this proposal that would go towards at least legally equating it and stimulating that the more husbands use maternity leave, says, eh, you can do it another way because it's written in other laws, but obviously it's not used. What the Voice suggests, colleagues from the Voice suggest is something that would help make it better. Also, colleagues from GLAS are very simple to show you that the problem of adopters is also one of the problems. During this government's period of adoption in the Republic of Croatia is almost dead, at the lowest limits, at the lowest numbers in the last 10 years. And why is that? Because adoption doesn't seem to be promoting. And through this law, colleagues from GLAS have tried to point out that the law needs to be changed and, yes, that part is also stimulated. And that's what you said no to. And on the other hand, a lot of you have been warned, there are ministry colleagues, who have warned about the problem of consecutive pregnancy, the problem, the maternity leave benefits, because if, in the letter of law, it's very clear that if one pregnancy goes after another, and I have to remind myself that it's not so rare, that pregnant women or women who have given birth to, after the second pregnancy, fall to a minimumer, and they don't, therefore, use the compensation they had before, they can't reuse the benefits as if they were pregnant twice, but in some period of time. And that's what women in the Republic of Croatia have pointed out on many occasions that this is a problem and that it needs to be resolved, you've had changes to the law, you haven't solved it. There's an easy answer from the Ministry of Demography that's been fraternizing me, the answer to one woman was, so what you got pregnant could've been nice after you'd been sick for two months and got two full salaries, so stay pregnant, and then you'd have a full amount. So obviously one, one very cold relationship to problems, citizens' problems. Therefore, through today's debate and the ministry's relationship to the proposal of this law, GLAS shows that the Croatian government headed by HDZ is concerned that the Republic of Croatia has more children and that our fellow citizens, that our families decide to have more children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188555	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to those who wish to replicate, let us welcome to the school gallery of students and students of the classical school of John Paul II from Zadar. ... And now the first line will have a respected representative, Djujic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188556	Dear Mrsic, women today are stressed enough, very stressful at all to stay pregnant today and in today's conditions in the Republic of Croatia when this employment situation is like this, when they have problems at work, that we are not talking about this injustice in the compensation of being sick with a woman allegedly having a right to 100% salary, but not more than that, and then a woman who has to keep her pregnant, so I'm going to be sick because of her pregnancy, gets a much lower salary, and then she breaks down the average, and then she knocks down that fee later, so these are all things that, which further complicate this and make our citizens' position more difficult. And I think this proposal by my GLAS colleague is very good because women because of everything that surrounds them are already stressfully left in a different state, staying pregnant, keeping a job, having a baby, taking care of their family, etc. And on the other hand, here I am reading today that this government is giving 100,000 kn to those who return to the Republic of Croatia. And what about those who stayed in the Republic of Croatia and who raise families here and want to raise children? Well, they should be given, and only those who went out. [[Intruder: Thank you]] if, if. [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188557	...representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188558	Thank you very much. Dear Djujic, you mentioned that one of the far-fetched ideas of the prime minister and the team around him that people who went outside pay to return, that with some compensation they lost they paid the dignity and therefore went outside, outside of the Republic of Croatia and that these 500,00 EUR will give us the EU for those people who moved out of the Republic of Croatia to pay with those money, so their return is completely transparent and ineffective. What the government needs to do, as well as about the birth and maternity leave itself, is to be something that will stimulate that in the Republic of Croatia we have, we have more children and parents decide on more than one pregnancy. Unfortunately, the government is doing nothing but trying to make money like it has tried to buy more children in the Republic of Croatia, but that's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188559	The next replica of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188560	Thank you. Dear colleague, this debate and call of 100,000,00 kn for all who return to the Republic of Croatia is not an invitation to return to the Republic of Croatia but is an invitation for all of us to leave the Republic of Croatia. And as the call and the initiative are illogical, it's been illogical for decades for a woman's cult in the Republic of Croatia. We treat a pregnant woman like she's giving birth to an RH, not as if she's giving birth to a child. We do not treat a woman as one who participates in the struggle for the equality of human beings. This law that equally treats and includes men in maternity and parental leave is part of our struggle to finally free the Croatian woman from all these fatal story elements that degrade her. And that is why this law needs support and I understand why those who cultivate a cult of illogicality do not want to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188561	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188562	A respected colleague, if these measures are in place, our tax collectors will pay for the incompetence of this government, and simply our citizens from tax will pay that this government has not been effective and has allowed dignity, dignity of work. I agree with you that this is a radical move that will not lead to citizens staying from the Republic of Croatia, but to leave the Republic of Croatia. And as for the position of women, this government has also made it very clear when we talk about the issue of fostering who can be a foster parent, about the issue of the Istanbul Convention where their party almost fell apart because of it, and these are civilizational things that would be normal in a democratic society and HDZ is a party that is said to be a democratic party should be the leader in this because it is neither left nor right, but it is democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188563	Thank you very much. Now, we've completely left the topic, but I'm convinced that on behalf of the promoter, and that's the GLAS's Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, who will give the final word, will be at the heart of the topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188564	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The siren's always enough of this strong, so I'm just gonna go a little further away, but of course I'm gonna talk about the subject. Why am I going to step back? Things change, time requires some things to change. 30 years ago when I gave birth to my first child to my father attending the birth was an exception. So it's just them bravest and most determined and then they fainted and did things. Today, I ask my son whose friend became a father two or three months ago and I happen to ask him and say was he at birth? My son tells me that, I mean, what I'm asking him is that he was, at all, what I'm asking him. So for some things it takes time, I can agree there. But some things we really need to define and do in the best possible way. As I was already saying, I'm going to do it one more time, we've touched two subjects with these amendments and the additions to the law. One topic is equal parenting, or balance of responsibility for fathers and mothers in caring for a newborn child, and the other is the subject of adoption. And you saw that, thank you to everyone who participated in the debate, and you saw that, in fact, most of the time, we did stick to this first topic of equal parenting. We are not naive, we also know how to vote, the government has already defined itself in all of this, but this first part will be installed in the legislation, it will not be installed today when it is proposed by the opposition option, i.e. we in GLAS, by the summer of 2022 will be installed. It will be installed, it will have to be, the directive will be respected, if it is not respected, then a warning will be given, and it will be installed. It's just that there's always a question between what we have in law and real life. We appreciate that it would be incomparable to do it now and to apply it even though it is seen that there are some problems in application, you always get to react and do it and we don't seem to need it, why are we always waiting for the last deadline? Why do we always say July 2022 or August 2022? So summer 2022 will come tomorrow. Because we know ourselves this year, we see how the laws go, so it's election year, so it's 2021 when they reorganize differently, in 2022 they'll come tomorrow and they'll find us again. And we'll be very surprised, look, we have to do this. And to do that now, we have time to be, we have time to apply, we have time to adapt, we have... times if we want to, and if we don't, then in 2022 we'll just say it like that, we have, and reality will be different. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even now, to put this into legislation does not guarantee that things will work well, but it guarantees that we have the law, that someone will decide on it or, to be clear, not someone will decide but will have to. And that's where I'm going to compare it to some other stuff. On Sunday there was Women's Day and everyone was, everyone was full of women's mouths, about it, about quotas. We also have quotas for entry into Croatia, or for lists where and 40 percent must be sub-represented sex and we are immediately normal for women. So, there's no problem when 40%, there's women and then they're on the list, and look how many of us there are in the assembly, I don't think at this point, because right now there's plenty of us because there's always more interest in these topics with the MPs, the MPs, and there's a lot more they want to discuss some other topics, they're something like that along the way, thanks to colleagues who are with us, but we always think they're women. And then when you see how many there are then you can see that the form is being satisfied. Equal parenting should not be a form, equal parenting should be something that we all encourage, equal parenting or father participation from the first moment in a child's life is good for that child, is caring for that child. Of course it won't be arranged now but at some point it will be and then we'll apply it and then we'll discuss it again, but it will be. Why does Croatia, or why does this government not recognize it so that it would be good to do so at this time? We all know why we're going down with our shoulders anyway, but we're not going to give up and we're going to keep suggesting and we're going to keep insisting and we're going to keep talking from this pay phone. The second topic that had been through these amendments and the additions of the law was the subject of adoption. About 100 children are adopted annually in Croatia. I am afraid that in 2019 and 2018 it was significantly less. We don't want to talk about it, we're not talking about this subject, we're not talking about the cry of those kids who are calling for them to get home, to adopt them by how much more these kids are 8 years old and have a chance to be adopted, but these children over 8 years old unfortunately I have to say it relatively harshly, but their chances of getting adopted have been significantly, significantly reduced. We wanted to point out through this amendment of the law that those who choose to adopt a child who is 8 years of age, who are looking for additional adequate care, who is the child who first comes to one family, who is seeking special involvement of those parents, are a child who has had both trauma and everything else so far, where we define that, with adoption leave, they are entitled to maternity leave, regardless of whether or not we call it parental leave, whatever it is together, the older child is but the child is asking that he really takes care of him. There's a very, very easy response from the government that doesn't matter at all at this point, but I'm afraid that adoption of children to this government doesn't matter at all. It'll be interesting to see when we have the data and maybe compare it over the last 10 years. Instead of putting effort, engagement, and everything else on the subject, we completely forget the subject, leave at all the care of someone else and forget that we really should take care of those children, the children they are difficult to adopt, so it's hard to adopt them and help people who have decided to adopt the child, and actually make it easier for them, and we don't take care of it, and we don't take care of it. So this amendment and the addition of the law is as far as we're concerned in GLAS it seemed to us that it's very easy, that something that can really go, that something that you can get support from my right-hand side or ruling side, that something where you're not only declarative but you're really saying equal parenting is important to us, it's important that we really increase the participation of women in the labour market, that we allow women to return to the labour market very quickly. Look at women today, they decide to become mothers older and older. Some things have changed, some things haven't changed. Experts say the woman is between the ages of 20 and 25. This means when you decide to have a child with 35 or 40 when the first time of course your chances are much less. It hasn't changed as much as I know how to give birth to only a woman, except in some movies there was something different, but some other things we can help and we can change. We can change that really fathers participate equally in raising children from the birth of a child, some things we can change and I don't see why we don't step up and change some things. Hope dies last, so this hope in this sense will last until the vote in the assembly which will be one Friday when the conditions are obtained, and perhaps this law comes to another reading, which would be very good for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188565	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188566	Comrade, a very interesting closing point, however, you've offered me actually by adopting. As many families in Croatia want, and can't have children biologically, choose to adopt them, the system hears them, exhausts them and drives them crazy by making it impossible for them to reach their goal even though they meet all the conditions and are then forced to seek happiness in children in many African countries where, in a very short time, I will dare to say the procedure, they are able to reach their dream. That the state fails to meet the needs of those who want to adopt and children who have many homes to find their happiness, their salvation in a healthy family environment and a warm, warm home. That I don't understand, there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188567	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188568	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I absolutely understand, and I agree with you, as if we're making children not adopted, as if we're planting our legs so that it doesn't happen. My sister is a social worker and has spent years only adopting children. She doesn't do it anymore today, but she's been doing it for years. And I know from the first as well as the emotional effort for her, and even today those children who were adopted when they used to write postcards to her, congratulate her Christmas, thank her for the general opportunity to get into the situation to be adopted. I really do have among my friends a family where adopted children live. So these kids have an opportunity that would otherwise get out of their hands and why we don't make the effort and effort to have as many children as possible to adopt than we actually do everything we can to make it impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188569	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188570	Dear colleagues, as someone who has passed the adoption process and who knows what it looked like, it's never been easy, it's always been complicated, but now it's impossible and that's, that's the problem. And it's impossible because the government doesn't do its job and here and with this proposal that would be one impulse that doesn't want people, so it's not something that will decide whether to adopt them or not, no, it's a personal, personal act, but it will allow them to feel as equal as biological, biological parents. But apparently this government is not working on anything, probably conscious because adoption, fostering is not something this government would think about. They only think about how they're going to give our fellow citizens money to get back to the Republic of Croatia, which is an idiotic idea, instead of giving those money that has the use to improve the quality of work and life. Citizens and workers in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188571	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, and forgive me the answer, the response of the esteemed representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188572	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, therefore it was never simple, it was difficult, it was complicated, it had to pass this process very, very long, but the difference between hard and impossible is great. It's impossible today. Today, I would say I disagree, but I understand, but now he doesn't understand. But I remember well a year ago, a year and a half ago, we had in the OIB Amendment Act that we asked for 1,000 adopted children to be regulated through the law in a different way because otherwise they have an old OIB, and they don't have a new OIB. For those 1,000 children, they were a letter and a number of 1000, this government did not accept our proposal. So, expecting to accept this one is really quite naive, but faith will not be lost and we will not ask the question of who will last turn off the light.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188573	The next replica of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188574	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear counterparts Anka Mrak-Taritash, the question of child adoption is exclusively an emotional and human question. Those who bring it down to some legal constructs of national or party are those who have no emotion and who have no humanity, and that should be made clear. A country where children are waiting to be adopted and a country where adoptors wait for their emotions and their humanity to be directed towards a specific child is not a state. It is a country that will find many national party shortcuts, but none of these shortcuts will lead to humanity and emotion. It's a state that we have different ways of showing, as you do today, we have to point towards He's on the path of emotion and humanity. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188575	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188576	Dear colleague Vučetic, you have clearly detected the matter in these minutes. So, like this, these kinds of demands, or processes like this, where we're looking for an amendment and an addition to the law really open up a series of things. And it's good that we've discussed it today, it's good to say it clearly, but it's clear that it's really important that this country's interest to adopt children or whether it's of interest that they stay where, where they've been all along, it's clear through the rejection of this amendment and the addition of the law and the government has clearly assessed itself. The adoption is, it's a topic, but we're going to do everything and we're not going to capitulate at all, and it's hard and tiring for us now, we have our own internal elections, so we're going to see what happens, and behind that we're going to do some other things that are going to cause public attention and boast about success. And those children who stay in the home as far as now The ruling furniture can stay there forever. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188577	Thank you very much. Before I close the session, let's welcome to the Gallery of the Association of Volunteers and Veterans of the Homeland War, the branch office of the Varazdin County. ... And now I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions. [[Applause]] We'll see each other again tomorrow, keep working at 9.30. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 851. Have a nice follow-up this afternoon. The session was interrupted in 15.07 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-11-0.u188578	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. Number 644. The promoter is once again the GLAS Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support is not adopted. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, and the result is 83 for, 2 abstentions and 41 against. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today on the agenda first item: - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 851; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, so I would now ask the Proposer to give us an additional explanation. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, the esteemed Stipe County, come in.
