ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202233	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break so that before the debate on this bill can begin, once again, we can consult on what position we will take. In fact, we at the SDP Representatives' Club think it is good to pass this bill, which is why they place all the executives in the same position regardless of whether their performance is carried out through the FINA or through the employer. We also believe that it is good that some problem issues are addressed in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and in the time of the pandemic or epidemiological crisis and in the time of the economic crisis ahead of us at the door. But we don't think that's close enough. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that even before this crisis, the situation in the Croatian judiciary was not well, but now after the crisis, after the courts closed, after the earthquake in Zagreb, the situation was disastrous. Despite what he was trying to verify from colleagues from all over Croatia I hear there are serious problems in the conduct of court proceedings, they simply stopped, they simply stopped, the courts did not work. My colleagues from Zagreb, for example, warn me that there are still no first degree courts, they have not received any notices, and it is very real that there will be no beginning until the 9th month. The court registers have stopped, let's say from Zagreb again warned me about the problem of enrolling in the Trade Register, but also the problem with land-booking procedures. Dear Minister, the European Court of Human Rights reacted on 16 March, Slovenia reacted, Austria reacted on 22 March, all countries in which the judiciary is in a much better situation than Croatia has reacted and such measures as you are proposing today for the completed and bankruptcy proceedings have been proposed for other proceedings. I'm calling you, do what we can't do as soon as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202234	Thank you, Comrade Grbin. The apartment will be approved. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202235	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent MPs and New Politics, please pause for 10 minutes to consider the situation of this law which is not enough because this law will stop the implementation of the law at last, but something similar to the performances, are not the executions, are the regular givings, which are an annuities on loans, must also be imposed on banks to postpone, to achieve the moratorium as a mandatory thing, and not to offer banks to people under their own conditions some moratorium where people pay huge interest during the moratories, where nothing is obtained, where banks are the only ones in this situation when we have a really difficult, extremely difficult economic situation for citizens and for businesses that they can only make money in this situation. We believe that this is the last measure necessary for people to be protected. This is not part of the Justice Department's work, but it belongs to the government's department, so let the justice minister hear what it's all about. And as far as this law itself is concerned, there are no violations of the law because we have 100's and 100's employers, one thing where we had fina and fina will now act according to the law, there's no dilemma at all, but another thing is where we have 100's and 100's employers, if there's no penalty for not acting it won't be good. And last thing, I hear from people that pension accounts have already been made, that these accounts already cover the performance, so they'll need something to do in that sense while in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202236	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202237	In front of the Club of Representatives We change Croatia and Live Wall we are looking for a break of 10 minutes to comment on this proposal because we think this is not enough. It's good to stop the automatic execution of citizens, especially pensioners directly from HZMO, but on the other hand, showing up, that's not enough of my people. That's not enough and you need to help these people who are extremely threatened. That is why I propose that, when we are already discussing this amendment to the Executive Act and the exercise to first apply the European Court's ruling that the exercise against those under which domestic entities, banks and others have applied unfair clauses which are harmful and thus the Government has shown that it violates the direct EU Directive and the judgments of the European Court of Justice, you know that in, the Government knows that, and it knowingly, violates it. Furthermore, it should be applied, which, you will re-admit I appeal to adopt our proposal moratorium for 12 months. It's not enough for three months that they're blocked because they'll come under the roof later, it takes 12 months for people to have a breath so they can breathe and can recover afterwards. Furthermore, I suggest again that banks do not account for interest during the duration of this crisis, the epidemic, the pandemic crises, or the tight, or regular interest. Says the prime minister's advisor, says it'll be illegal. All individuals and entities have given up something in this crisis, banks are not my people. We've rescheduled them with 60 billion kunas, they've been sold cheap, they've been earned, they've been paid off by the citizens, the state and everything else. Now it's time to put it in place. Therefore, I ask and ask that we adopt these proposals, Mr. Minister, when you are here and that you are finally Let's help the blocked. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202238	Stanka will be adopted. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202239	Thank you. On March 18th, the government proposed a postponement, we insisted here then, I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic to ask for a write-off. It was followed by a write-off, of course a delayed reaction, after which it means moratorium to the performance, this is the second phase to be solved, but only for a certain period. It is already mentioned in the debate, I in the apartment this morning, Slovenia, the first measure Slovenia has brought to the moratorium on loans and interest. Why were you waiting with this? The answer is simple, you calculated with our citizens to make these measures worth the election by the 7th month. If you had brought these measures to the election in March, the measures would have been over by the time you planned them. And it's your intention to throw citizens into trouble after the election, after you realize what you're up to. And here in this assembly, colleagues from HDZ, colleagues of Grozdana Peric, colleagues of Bacic, acted as bank agents, represented banks while we in opposition said that banks could not profit in this crisis, that they could not make extra profits. They received obvious calls and had to report here for debate and defend the banks. You've been acting as bank agents all along and you're not ready, you're not ready to suggest a moratorium on interest and loans. Why are you watching some of your future engagements? Why are you looking at some of your future loans? Why don't you work for the Croatian people and not the banks? We will serve only the Croatian people, only to him and to God dearly, and you will continue to serve the banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202240	My colleague Bacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202241	Thank you, Mr. President. Injured Article 28, 238. The Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Grmoya, insists on calling us from HDZ, me personally for our position on the measures proposed by MOST. Therefore, MOST has not, as proposed, proposed systematically, been designed, none of these measures were affected, nor was it correct. HDZ and the government have all the measures they have proposed, proposed on time and it is best shown the data that, as are entrepreneurs and citizens... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202242	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. You know very well that what you've done is a replica, so I'm giving you a warning. Here's your buddy, Grmo. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202243	Article 238, that's what you are, and that's what you've confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202244	I warned, yes, and I warned my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202245	But it is interesting that Bacic did not respond to my accusations and that it is quite clear that he works for banks, not Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202246	Comrade Grmoy, you will receive a warning and sit down. Comrade Thunderbolt, please, you're being warned to take a seat. I warned my colleague Bačić that if he's a bank agent, you have to prove it a little better than you just said here because it's an accusation that's not supported by any evidence. Is anyone else answering for a break? No, I don't. Then we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 10:00.56.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202247	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can continue our work. It is of course the following point: - Final draft law on intervention measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the duration of the special circumstances, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 933. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202248	Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you the proposal for a Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the course of the special circumstances, and the Final Proposal of the Law and the objective and the raid of this law is to stop the enforcement procedures during the course of these special circumstances. I'm going to say right away that the time has come and we're, by this law, actually all those recommendations we've had, we're turning them into laws. So far, we have not had such a legal act, but the recommendations have led precisely to the fact that the courts have not acted in the executive cases during this period, that the public notebooks have also not acted in the executive cases, there has been no issuing of an enforcement solution on the basis of a credible document. So, more or less, we covered all these areas, except, it's true that these measures were not aimed at the performances carried out by the employers, carried out by HZMO, so that at this time those performances were paid and retired. And I think that last week or a little while ago, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Implication on Monetary Funds implemented by FINA was passed, and that law defined that area as well. By this law, so we stop the executions on, both in front of the notebooks and in front of the courts with certain exceptions, which is those of the performances involved and which are actually related to the payment of the claim of a minor child for child support, wage workers, salary compensation. We also have one general exception here that the subject of the exercise can't be the means involved in helping the economy, entrepreneurs, natural persons, and related to this situation. This law also refers to bankruptcy proceedings and we say that the reasons resulting from this crisis, which lead to bankruptcy proceedings, will not be counted in the sense of this law, therefore as reasons for bankruptcy. When this period is completed, if someone has been blocked during that period, it will not be included in that period relating to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. It is clear that we have left certain exceptions because there are always exceptions, so that this performance is also related to the payment of the alimony, regarding the rights of workers and we have left general provisions that the court has the right, the judge has the right to particularly justified situations and to approve the exercise, but such a solution and such a decision must be particularly explained. Finally, I think that this law rests on the recommendations that have been implemented so far, which have actually produced results so far, because in this period, I don't think anyone can say that it has been thrown out by executive procedures, especially new executive procedures that would have been produced both in the notebooks and in the courts, the public auctions and all that was gone. So here we propose that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202249	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202250	Thank you very much. Here, so obviously the measures we support are being adopted mostly for shorter periods and obviously you wouldn't get the cool timing, respected ministers, exclusively for pre-election purposes. So, there's a month and a half to take measures, last month, this is now, so we've already taken measures to solve the part, so the measures we've solved through the FINA, and this is what employers are doing with the executions, the moratorium. However, the key and first decision that should be taken with this is the moratorium on loans and on interest at banks. Banks are getting enough in the Republic of Croatia to respect the government's representative, Minister Bosnjakovic. Tens of billions of kunas make a year. The government, at least in this assembly, is to vote the moratorium on the agenda. And credits. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It's a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202251	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202252	So this isn't for any pre-election purposes. For a clear reason, this is the law that we, to the greatest extent, make recommendations that work, so the implementations are not implemented on the basis of recommendations, we are now turning it into a law. As for the proposal regarding the moratorium with banks, that is the period in which it will be analysed whether it makes sense or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202253	The next replica is the respected representative Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202254	Thank you. Dear Minister Bošnjaković. I've been communicating a lot with people these days, people keep coming to me because I'm one of the main advocates to pass this law, people know it, and people come to me for it. And pensioners who make pensions directly with pensions, for the Pension Insurance Institute where they are directly carrying out those pensions, tell me that the accounts have already been made and that these accounts are already scheduled to go. So HZMO didn't prepare for this law that would probably come into force on May 1st, and maybe May 2nd, maybe May 3rd, it doesn't matter, but HZMO didn't prepare for that law. Are you a minister, did the government warn HZMO that such a law is coming and that they should prepare for the application of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202255	Dear Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202256	As you know, this system of performance in some way is why it works and based on recommendations. I've already said here that the only thing that hasn't been covered has not been covered by pension and pay. However, we need to know that both pensions and salaries have that protected part, the part that is excluded from the performance, there is the possibility of protected accounts, so that these constant incomes are pretty much protected. As for all these performances and all mutual religious and debt relations related to claims, it should be made clear that this is one stalemate, that once special circumstances take place, no one will be deprived of the obligation he has, but simply will have to fulfil the obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202257	The next replica is the respected representative of Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202258	Your Honors Minister, my question is do you really need to stop the procedure or the implementation? It's my only simple question about this law, or whether there's going to be a choke after that for those who can do it all together, if the aim is to help the citizens, I think it would only be necessary to stop them. And the second thing, 25 days have passed since an independent judicial body under the Constitution, and that's the DORH's ordered home reconnaissance through all this time you have actually recorded pressure on the judicial body, finds various inspections etc., interviews, statements by the defendants and so on. and no reaction. My opinion is that it is necessary to defend this independence and wait for the only measuring body, which is the DORH to make its state's attorney's decision whether someone is guilty or not of the situation that happened at a home in Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202259	Thank you very much. This other part isn't really about the subject. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202260	So answer the first question. The law clearly states that executions are being stopped at this time, so implementation, when the law is in some way consummated and when its deadline expires, then the executions go on. With that, I can say from here again that this law does not forgive debts, it actually only helps at this point and all those who can now fulfil their obligations, I think it is wise to meet their obligations. And as far as this second part is concerned about the conduct of the DORH, it is completely independent and it will make its own state's attorney's decision no matter what you say or how, but they will be faced with certain evidence, facts and will therefore make a state's attorney's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202261	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. As I said earlier at the beginning of this point, we in the SDP imitate what this law has been referred to in the procedure. We believe that there was indeed a need to react and intervene both in the executive and bankruptcy proceedings. However, we also feel that it is simply not enough. We talked to you about the example of the European Court of Human Rights, we talked about the example of Slovenia, Austria, etc. So I'm asking you, and I haven't heard you talk about it in the introduction of the law, can we expect such measures in other areas of the judiciary? I believe that's necessary, I believe that's necessary, and I expect an answer from you. Are we gonna do this or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202263	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202264	That's not what I was talking about in the introduction because it's simply not the subject of this law. But now, to your question, I can say that we have taken some of the measures that have proved to be very important throughout the system so far. We've introduced electronic communication that's very good, we've introduced the possibility of a distance company, so you don't have to go anywhere, but you can do it at home from your office. That works. You can get an excerpt from a trade register, you can register ownership rights all by electronic means. So that electronic communication has helped a lot. And by the way, we had the Council of EU Justice Ministers where we exchanged experiences. So the measures are roughly similar, and this law, as I said, is basically based on recommendations that already work. So, in this period, no one has been thrown out of some kind of overwork just because we've made such recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202265	The next replica is the respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202266	Dear Ministers, these measures that the government is taking, I cannot say that they are bad, but this is interesting how it took such a strong crisis to solve a key problem and to understand how many hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens exist, who are extremely affected by the performances. I'd like this, these measures you've now introduced, to keep them in mind permanently. Of course you'll step them up with all the suggestions you've heard here today, and I'll say so in the debate here. So you have to remember that hundreds of thousands of citizens because they have extremely low pensions, extremely low incomes, many, so families with many children are not able to function normally, to live normally. They are unable to pay the bills and then unfortunately thanks to the legal system of our country of Croatia, they belong to a group of executed. So let this be an incentive to solve this problem, but permanently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202267	Thank you. The Honorable Minister. Nothing. The next replica is the respected representative of Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202268	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I see you've stopped the executive procedures and I hope that's good. However, looking at the economy that we had to stop and seeing that it would be very difficult to run because of the closed borders and everything else, which will last, so I think that the businessmen, the craftsmen, the OPGs and the others should also be able to understand the fact that for a long time the performances of course are not, but that interest is not counted, it is very important that interest be lowered and that banks feel the same problem as everyone else. Of course, they must be victims of something, and it's very important, because the economy won't be able to move quickly until all borders are opened. Therefore, the economy suffers, the craftsmen suffer, and there it is necessary to take special care not to let the banks in with their own, and this law is certainly good, but here I only mention that it is one process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202269	Thank you. Dear Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202270	Thank you very much. Here, as you can see in this law, there is a provision that, at a time of special circumstances, there is no straining interest, it is one of the provisions. And as for businessmen, OPGs, craftsmen, there are others who don't owe them but actually some others owe them and they ask for money because if they don't get that money they won't have to pay, they won't actually have to do their business. That's why we left it in this law, so to speak, the door to the courts is opened if such situations occur and they recognize it as justifiable that they can then continue to do the work and can carry out the work, only they have to explain those reasons specifically. Is it always when you bring in a general measure in a way that you cut and there's a lot that stays out of these frames? We left here to the court to explain these valid reasons, it's hard to actually predict and state them, but the court will explain them then in the decisions themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202271	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202272	Thank you, Vice President HS. The Honorable Ministers. That's exactly the theme of my replica. Now you're the principles of the subject. So, in the Republic of Croatia, most of the problems are when we talk about bankruptcy proceedings just when legal persons as creditors can't collect their claims, and on the other hand they are debtors and then we come to a vicious circle where they have to go to bankruptcy with businesses. I think the measures you've taken now should otherwise apply to what you say when it comes to courts, the assessment of courts, we've seen in the case of shipbuilding that it was a court assessment of how things can be conveniently solved for the oil company. Otherwise, measures should be applied because the state cannot behave in such a way as to say that we do not concern the legal relationship between the two legal entities but must take all possible steps to obtain these charges. I don't know what the total amount of claims is at this point, mutual claims in the Republic of Croatia, but I think this delaying bankruptcy will only further deepen the problem, and it won't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202273	Dear Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202274	We went with a measure in this law that those reasons that are otherwise to open up bankruptcy that do not at this time count as reasons, if someone is now blocked we believe that this reason should not be when this ends should not be taken into account for the opening of bankruptcy. But we also left one provision here that if, I don't know, I estimate the debtor that he is in the interest of opening up bankruptcy, it may also be the employees that can then also make a decision about opening up bankruptcy. It's not like there's no way to regulate it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202275	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the first representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202276	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. I have already said, it is good that we have referred this law to the procedure, it is good that this law is ahead of us because the situation that we had after the amendments to the Law on the implementation of the accounts has led us to the fact that people are actually being discriminated against by the way they are implemented. Therefore, the enforcement against those against whom it was carried out through the FINA was suspended, while it was carried out against those who had an accident of being led through their employer or through HZMO, and about one third continued. This is what we address, I hope that there will be enough time for employers to accept it or to react under this law, as well as the HZMO and that already pay for April which will be paid in May or April pension that will be paid in May will be paid without the implementation of the executive procedure. It's good to intervene in bankruptcy proceedings as well. I'm just going to give you one example of why it's good for both the final and the bankruptcy proceedings. Imagine the situation not to stop, that it does not stop the actions in these two proceedings and today it is to sell or cash some property, the value that this property would achieve would not be adequate to the real value of the property. When cashing, they would achieve a far smaller amount and thus double the damage of the executioner, and they would damage the believer, for one would not get what it belongs to, and the other would be further damaged. And that's why it's good that in times of crisis, it's not done by real estate, movables, etc. Because the value that would come true for them can't be real, there's no real picture, and this is necessary because in this way, I'm going to repeat it once more, protect both the religious and their rights. And just to paint for you, it's not always the believers who are the bad guys. I remember from my career as a lawyer that we had to spend some time on his Porsche Cayenne because he didn't want to pay his dues, and that person, with all due respect, doesn't need our extra protection. However, and I've talked about it and I'm going to keep talking and it's directly related to this, solving only bankruptcy and only executive proceedings isn't enough, we have problems in the case. I talked to colleagues and colleagues from all over Croatia, in Pula only the day before yesterday they received mail, for the first time since the start of the coronary crisis, for over a month they did not receive mail. You know why? Because the first crown in Pula appeared right in court and the court was closed for it. So we had a case of a sick person directly, we had a situation where people don't work. On Monday they picked up the mail, you can imagine how many mails were received by colleagues and colleagues after more than a month of waiting, and deadlines are running. Now we're okay, at least we've lifted passes inside the county so I can communicate with my clients and I can get the papers directly when these clients are not from the city where the lawyers are, but the situation isn't regular. In Zagreb, it was further worsened by the fact that the courts suffered from the earthquake. You said earlier, Mr. Minister, that it was possible for a remote establishment of companies. Yes, but then my colleagues tell me that they have been waiting for more than 30 days for answers from the register in Zagreb, and there is a similar situation not only in the court register, but also in land books. The backlogs are only increasing. We are at this point in order to prevent people from losing rights that could be lost because they cannot address the court in these circumstances, they need extraordinary measures in other ways. And that is why the SDP Representatives' Club has proposed a conclusion that the Parliament would oblige the Government to refer such a law to the procedure. But let's go back to the very text of this law. The SDP advocates' club will support this law, because we believe it is a step in the right direction, but that does not mean that it should not be repaired. He needs it, and in my opinion, he needs to be resilient in certain parts, so let's get on with it. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 3. It should be clearly defined that a) proposals for performance can be submitted and (b) the court must comply with such Let's go back to that gentleman with Cayenne, if the court doesn't come up with a decision on the matter and doesn't block this Cayenn, the believer may lose his rights. And we know, and I'm going to do it one more time, not all of them are honest, not all of them are the ones who need to be protected by rights. Some have very consciously gone into situations with the intention to screw someone up, not to be protected, and believers should be provided with protection of their rights in a way that can also build order on real estate, and we will take action when the time comes with movement, wages, etc. That is why it is necessary, and we have proposed an amendment in this direction, which is clear and defined, that the proposals are submitted, that solutions be made, but that, as counterpart Ostojic said, they do not then carry out actions to carry out the performance and collection and settlement of the creditors themselves. The second part, I'd point out to you the problem, Art. 6. which refers to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, the existence of a bankruptcy reason is a presumption of opening a bankruptcy procedure rather than a presumption of submitting a proposal for opening a bankruptcy procedure as stated in the law. Therefore, the legislator cannot prescribe when and under what conditions the proposal for the opening of bankruptcy is to be submitted but to prescribe that, during the period of special circumstances, the bankruptcy reasons which are otherwise the assumption of opening the bankruptcy proceedings will not be. So, you were just playing the ball, you said no proposals would be submitted, not bankruptcy would be opened. We have proposed an amendment, and I suggest that it be corrected in that sense. The next thing you know is the flow of tight interest. If you look at the article. The 7th is said to be legally tightened interest in the sense of this law do not run. What does that mean? That the legal tightening of interest does not take place in executive and bankruptcy proceedings, therefore they do not run when the debtor is in due course, when the debtor has not carried out his obligation, but they continue in other proceedings where this is not established by a possible judicial verdict. For this reason, we ask that this definition be changed and that this law makes it clear that during the course of the special circumstances, the tightening interest in Croatia will not run, and not only for bankruptcy, not only for executive proceedings, but also for those cases where the solution has not been reached, where the case is pending, etc. Let's just go back to that situation I used to say, we have to think in the interest of the believer, but also of the performer. The believer, if he stays this way, will wait for the solution to be submitted because until he asks for the bankruptcy procedure to be launched, the interest will flow. We need to determine whether or not we're discriminating people again, discriminating people on whether or not they're being handled. That's why I'm going to say it again, in Art. 7. the words within the meaning of this law should be deleted and it should be perfectly clear that during the time of the special circumstances of the legal tight interest do not run. And the last amendment refers to giving power to this law. In fact, it reminded me of our electronic session of the Committee of Justice, a colleague of Alexic's, this law has no criminal provisions. If there is no violation of the law that will be sanctioned by employers and HZMOs who do not comply with this law and continue to implement the exercise as if this law had not been passed, it remains in many ways a dead letter on paper. This is why we propose to introduce infringing provisions that will punish both employers and HZMO if they continue to implement the law regardless of the adoption of this law. I will repeat once again, the SDP Representatives Club will support the law because we believe it is going in the right direction, but we are asking, we insist that at least a part be adopted if not all our amendments are simply improving the law, and in some parts they make it fully functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202277	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which, it will be time to share the respected representatives Vucelic and Lovrinović, first respected representative Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202278	Thank you, President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia is not a free country, and we lost the war in silence. We're occupied by mobsters in suits, criminals hiding in political parties. The government's trio on the 30th. It's under their control. The legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia is corrupt. HS and Croatian representatives have been compromised. The executive authority and the president representing it is part of an elite that does not trust the hungry and does not represent the interests of its people. And the judicial authority, the Constitutional Court and its 13 judges are elected by compromised parliamentary representatives, as well as by the President of the Supreme Court. Most of the judges in the courts are controlled by the mob. And in order for the mafia to ensure the appointment and resolution of all judges, the DSV Republic, the council that decides to initiate criminal proceedings against these same judges, and the citizens should trust the judges. The same ones who fake the paperwork, reduce the fines, receive bribes, condemn criminals to parole or completely dismiss the charges. And what is most important for this debate is the key part of the executive mafia, and in the chain of the executive mafia there are all of them, from employees who work in departments and have access to land books, perpetrators who bloodyly throw our people out of the only home and judges who take away property with a commission that is nothing but a bribe, and judges themselves like to call it a "money bonus". It's a shame. Often judges themselves buy at auctions and bloody properties for half their value through third parties and then resell them with a huge profit. Here you can see the best of administrative and political corruption, and everything is under the auspices of the state and its anti-corruption institutions. Before the wave of action and execution takes place, before all claims on payment arrive in autumn, the most important item for this government is to speed up parliamentary elections and to make the best of them. It is not a priority to them, nor to protect you citizens and perpetrators, nor to fight corruption. And how it would be if they were the very generator of that corruption. And we have today in front of us a draft law on intervention measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings where in one article an article hides the permission of the executive mafia to continue to carry out the criminal work uninterruptedly. For this reason, the living wall, the reasons for the protection of the perpetrators, will presently submit the amendment to their clause in their law allowing judges to normally continue with the executive practice. And instead of disabling the executive procedures during the crisis that will actually throw us all at the edge of poverty, they continue to worry that these same judges are still hoarding our last blood and sweat. They continue their duties, and all it takes is for the judge to write an undefined explanation of why the execution is carried out. They've come up with all this nicely. The public sells fog not to allow executive procedures, and at the back door, far from the public, they continue their work as usual. The amendment to the Living Wall, these MPs here in this assembly will not accept it and will reject it without any remorse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202279	The esteemed representative Lovrinović will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202280	Respected citizens, especially those who are blocked and pre-delivery. You see, the bill of this law will work on you like aspirin that will remove your headache for a few hours, the next day when you wake up, it will be even bigger. So, once this crown crisis is over, you're going to face a bunch of debts, blockages, and nothing's been solved. 20 times, respected citizens, the executive law has been amended and it is clear that the political elites that have so far rocked the Republic of Croatia that they used your troubles and troubles and lied to you all along, have manipulated that they will solve something and haven't solved anything. Therefore, a final solution must be made here so that the term "blocked citizen" no longer exists in the Republic of Croatia, as does not exist in the EU, that no one can be executed on the basis of a public record. The European Court of Justice of Luxembourg ruled in 2017. that it is not a credible document for carrying out the performance. Mr. Crescent. Minister, you are a member of the Government, why you allow the execution in such cases to be carried out on the basis of a public record that is not credible. Read it, you're familiar with that verdict, you're still letting people get bullied. Banks have sold 38 billion kuna claims from citizens, businesses, and above all we're interested in citizens, for 10 billion kunas they've sold to debt enforcement agencies that are now harassing people so they can't sleep, that they can't live on it. Dear citizens, we won't solve anything, I can't handle us or a few MPs solve your problem, but there are 230 000 of you in the Republic of Croatia. If half of you come out without me saying all of you, then in the next election, your problem will be gone. I will repeat to you once again how we will resolve it, party experts Change Croatia have the next solution, debt-making agencies have bought these debts for 10 billion kuna. What's our solution? The state will issue bonds, sell them, can buy them from citizens who have money, businesses, and most will buy HBOR, HPB which from the CNB if they are to receive a loan in full of 10 billion kuna. What is actually the advantage for you respected citizens? Next, not to complicate, you will continue to mean now you will owe the state or HBOR or HPB, you will pay off your debts that you need to pay off for 5, 10 years depends, our proposal is that it takes 10 years to issue a bond. But what's the point of everything? You will eventually not pay it 100% but no more than 40% of the amount. So specifically, if someone owes her today, for example. 1000.000 kuna he won't pay 1000.000 kuna in total when he's 10 years old, which is what he's now being pushed into and forced into debt enforcement agencies, the blood is drinking, but he'll pay and pay only up to 40,000 kuna. Dear citizens, it is possible to see. For that we needed knowledge, see we have knowledge, we don't waste ourselves on sensationalism and circus here, we're a party of serious people experts. Therefore, this is the final solution and that once in this House we no longer discuss the blocked and executed, this problem will not exist. Well, that's why respected citizens, don't take the aspirin of those that the government is okay with, okay, 3.4 months of crisis will come well, no headaches, but when it's three months, you'll get an even bigger headache because who knows what the consequences of this crisis will be. So, I invite you blocked citizens, all of your associations, so recognize once again that the solution exists, let's put together pressure on the election, that day you are kings, emperors. If you choose those who have made you unhappy so far, don't complain to anyone. I'm sorry for the message, but don't complain to anyone again. If you want to finally solve your problem so get your people up and get rid of it. And secondly, I call on the CNB to carry out the operation that we have proposed called "Helicopter Money" and to pay every adult citizen, including, of course, the pensioners, because they always ask me, are we, and you are there, to pay every 4,000 kuna free of charge that doesn't have to pay back. These are measures, dear citizens, these are moves for Croatia's rebirth, these are state measures, these are measures of hope. That spirit must be in motion, and I urge you to remove this issue from the agenda of the Parliament forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202281	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202282	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens who follow us. Here we are today before us the proposal for a law on intervention measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the duration of these special circumstances caused by the coronary virus. Just to remind the Minister of what he said, so when we discussed in March all the measures that the Government has adopted so far, and also ten days ago, we passed the Law on the Completion of the Law on Financial Implementation of Financial Assets, which enables natural persons who in the blockade to suspend all assets on the account of natural persons in order to make it easier for them to get through this crisis caused by the virus. And then the debate also pointed out the lack of payment and enforcement by employers or HZMO, so that this bill of law today is actually the answer to this question even though this whole period of month and more days as the minister pointed out, we have a situation that, according to the recommendations made by the minister, these procedures have been halted, all procedures of enforcement, except for these payment procedures on salaries and pensions, which will be that today or after this law is adopted. What I would like to point out is that it is really kind of hard for me to listen to here today certain colleagues who, in a political way, try and through a debate on this proposal that is really good and goes in favor of this situation all done and blocked, trying to undermine everything that the government has done throughout this term for both those who have been completed and blocked, and now I'm not going to take all of that, we have had a few changes to the rules that have really gone towards helping both those who have been executed and blocked, and this shows how sensitive this government is to the problems of these fellow citizens. This proposal itself provides for a halt in the conduct of the executive procedures during these special circumstances and, above all, for the protection of the lives and health of people and of all those involved in those proceedings. It is also prescribed to halt the implementation of the pay and other permanent income during the duration of these circumstances in order to make it easier for our fellow citizens to overcome this crisis period. I note that even now there was a part of the protected part of which could not be implemented, but by the power of this law, all the salaries and permanent cash benefits as well as pensions will be paid without acquittal, which means that our fellow citizens will be able to dispose of the whole amount, which will indeed help them financially during this period to cope with this crisis. Of course, those situations are subject to suspension exemptions and in cases where it is necessary and justified, which are the alimony for child restraints, the underlying claims have reached and the unpaid salaries or severances have been paid, and in the case of safeguard measures from the criminal proceedings. In the same way, it is so arranged by the law that we have previously passed, by amending the laws that we passed 10 days ago, which refers to those tasks carried out by FINA. During these circumstances, the employer will receive new executive documents, primarily for the purpose of gaining the right of the championship in settlement, but will not prey or transfer part of the acceptance to the executive. Exceptionally, if, during the period of special circumstances, the conditions for the transfer of funds that have been seized and actually seized prior to the occurrence of these special circumstances, the employer, or the other payer, will transfer the seized amount to the authorising officer. This is because these funds have been seized before and the executive has acquired a claim on them, so the perpetrator can no longer have them at his disposal. Furthermore, this law provides that, during the duration of these specific circumstances, the funds to be disbursed for the purpose of implementing the projects are to be allocated to grants financed from national funds or from EU funds, and that the exceptional means to be paid as aid to the economy and natural persons under these specific circumstances. It is also prescribed that what is now a insolvencyary reason, will not actually be in these special circumstances, the bankruptcy reasons for submitting or opening a bankruptcy procedure, and the proposal can only be submitted exclusively by the debtor, and the FINA and the believer only in the situation if it is about protecting the interests of the security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, and then human health. This measure is extremely important to help our economies survive this crisis and continue their activities after the crisis. The law also states that during the time of the special circumstances, interest is not on the way. The duration of these special circumstances shall be determined 3 months from the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. from 1 day from the day of publication in the National Journal, and the deadline may be extended by another 3 months. It is also not necessary to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget for the implementation of this law. Finally, I would like to stress that the HDZ Club will support this bill because it aims to protect, above all, our fellow citizens, and also, with a number of other economic measures that we have already adopted, it also wants to help the owners, by prescribing these measures related to bankruptcy, to help them overcome this crisis that has been created and caused by the coronary virus, and that they can then continue to participate in the economic recovery of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202283	Thank you very much. The next club representative is... The HSLS and the HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The HDS Club, HSLS and HDSB will, of course, support these amendments to the law because they represent something they were talking about a few days ago here in the debates when, when the law was passed that stopped the suspensions from the FINA, the conduct of the FINA, so they all mentioned that they did not cover this part of the suspension by the employer. Of course, it couldn't have been that law, it should have been another law, and that's this law. And as already seen here in the debates, it is evident that like many other legal changes that were during this crisis, most practically parliamentary representatives and constituencies will accept. It is clear that during this crisis, the government is taking its steps and measures to help citizens, to help the economy and that they have one of their dynamics. The normal thing is that you can't bring all this together, that all of this needs to be prepared, analyzed and reached legal solutions. That's how it is with this, and as the minister initially said, therefore, but at the very recommendation there were no such suspensions, there were no such charges, now it will be legal and therefore get one of its legal frameworks, the legal norm. It is also clear that this is already a time for political actors, where political actors have been affected by certain pre-election fevers and that this is a time that is generally wanted to be used now, slowly and for certain pre-election activities. But this is not the time, regardless of the circumstances, regardless of all the activities that will take place politically, when the work of those who successfully lead the country through this crisis, who make the right decisions at the right time, which are in favour of Croatian citizens. And certainly we must all get the strength together to draw a little bit of the hand and still think first of all about the health of citizens, the standard of citizens, the preservation of jobs and the preservation of the Croatian economy and its revitalisation in future times. And this bill of law is going in that direction, and for that reason, as I said at the beginning, our club will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202285	Thank you very much. The following should be the club of the Independent Lists' Independent Lists and speak to the respected representative of Grmoje, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next should be the respected representative of Marin Škibol on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youths, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, and the following will be spoken by respected representative Goran Aleksic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202286	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Here, a little late we finally have this bill on the agenda. Unfortunately, it should have been brought before, because now we have a big problem. HZMO has already accounted for pensions for April, payment in May, and in these accounts the executions already appear, in these accounts already envisioned the removal of that part of the pension that goes to the believer. The same thing may be done by employers if they pass under the radar of this law. The question is whether they'll all know that this law is in force because they don't care. We don't have any breaking orders. Infringements are very important and necessary when it comes to such a law. Because we can't let HZMO and employers follow the law if they want to, if they don't have to. And now we have a situation, so if the execution is done, what does a man like that do? What is to be done by a pensioner to whom HZMO will perform in the May part of his pension because he has not yet learned this law? I asked the minister in the replica, did the government of the Republic of Croatia inform HZMO in advance of this situation? And the answer to the question I didn't get, but in a political way, as the answer to the question goes, I got an answer that doesn't have an answer to my specific question. Has HZMO received information from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that such a law is being prepared, that it will be in effect and that pensions are not being carried out accordingly? So my conclusion is based on what Minister Bosnjakovic told me, that the government of the Republic of Croatia did not inform HZMO in advance of what law is being prepared. And the law, by all accounts, will enter into force on May 1st because it is common these days that after voting on the law, the same day the law enters the National Journal and the second day is in force. May 1st, in other words, no one shall be completed. No one shall be completed on 1 May and beyond except for the exceptions prescribed by law. What did the Government of the Republic of Croatia do to prevent the non-compliance of the law, which will enter into force on 1 May, according to all of this? Nothing. Unfortunately, it is very possible that part of the pensioner will be completed. I've been talking to them, I've been talking to them all the time, people are answering my emails, they're answering my inbox because they've noticed that I've been standing up for this situation for two weeks and people are complaining to me all the time and they keep calling me. And people are afraid that despite the law being prepared, which is ultimately good, they will not be protected for this first pension. I therefore appeal from this place to HZMO, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently take all necessary actions today so that no receipt from 1 May will be made by chance, and further because the law will enter into force on 1 May. Second of all, I have proposed an amendment that would prescribing infringing provisions. Infringement provisions must be prescribed, infringement provisions for a legal person from 100,000 to 500,000,00 kn unless the law and infringement provisions of 5000,00 to 50,000,00 kn for a responsible person in a legal person are respected unless this law enters into force on 1 May. I don't know why that law on the implementation of cash deals and this law that we're now discussing weren't in the package in some way even though they're different ministries? Why didn't these two laws go into procedure together, and why didn't they come into effect on the same day? I don't know that. I suppose that because the government of the Republic of Croatia has not been coordinated in the measures it proposes because of this crisis that has now taken place, which has plagued us all, which has thrown the citizens, who are just going to throw the citizens on their knees and the companies are just going to throw them on their knees, we haven't all even felt what this crisis is, we're just going to feel in a few months. And I'm wondering, I'm really wondering how we're going to take it all out on our backs because what we hear from Minister Maric, it's all costing the country about 70 billion kuna. 70 billion kuna is huge money for the Republic of Croatia. That's the money we're gonna pay back for the next five or six years. through new borrowings, and therefore we must not allow our citizens who are yet to feel what the crisis is now in this crisis to be further damaged by the fact that the law is not prepared in time and because the HZMO has already prepared the executions in its accounts. So we have a law that forbids you, and on the other hand we have accounts where these executions are already being prepared and will be carried out. I hope that in these two days, however, this situation will be resolved, so let it be a delay in pension payments, better to make pensions late than not to be paid in full to the pensioners. It's better to be two and three days late than the pensioners don't get their money. Isn't that right? And the next thing I want to say, the last measure that is missing in this crisis, and I keep mentioning it, and I'm not going to give up on it, is a mandatory moratorium to collect annuities from loans to all non-equity citizens and non-equity businesses. I'm stressing non-equivocal citizens and non-equitable businesses. So, I'm not looking for a moratorium for those who can pay and I belong to those who can pay, I don't need a moratorium probably here for any MP, I don't need ministers, I don't need a moratorium of anunities that are paid off by loans to non-legitive citizens and non-legitive businesses. They have problems and they need to be enabled by this moratorium. He wrote to me, sent me a letter from a single father who had two children, who got divorced, and I'm not going to read it here all the time, but I'm going to briefly tell you what a man wrote me in that letter. He's got 2 loans, one loan is in Swiss, so the unfair loan he needs to get his money back on, but it takes time until the court does its job, and the second loan is up because he had to go up, his roof went down, and he had to raise 40,000 kuna to fix his roof. And he needs a moratorium on both of those loans, he's now, he's now reduced his salary, he's got a work contract where he's got a minimumer because he can't do otherwise, he's paid everything regularly, he's never been late, he hasn't had any payout problems, and now this single parent, with two kids, with two underage kids, with minimum incomes, has to pay off the loans regularly because what the bank offers him is very unfavourable for him and would cost him all of 12,500 kuna. So it costs him a moratorium, and that's a half-year moratorium that costs $12,500. What kind of moratorium is that? At this time of crisis, banks that have robbed Croatian citizens for 20 billion kunas of unfair interest and unfair currency CHF, banks thieves must be prevented from earning and must be prescribed a mandatory moratorium for all non-legid citizens and non-equivocal businesses in a way that does not account for interest, no cost and that people can quietly welcome some better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202287	Next is the Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom time will be shared by respected representatives Zekanovic and Glasovic. Apparently, the first respected representative of Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202288	Dear colleagues, I don't think there are any MPs here who will not support the executive law that will protect the most vulnerable groups of people in our Croatian society, in our homeland. It means people who have borrowed loans, who have medium-sized enterprises and these smaller businesses, people without income now without a job, but at the same time this class has become some part of social demagogy here. First of all, we don't want some of this stuff, we're putting ourselves in the same group with people, let's just say it's not the same public sector that has a steady salary. I'm in favour of supporting the public sector, but for restructuring the public sector. We're looking at the problem here also is the FINA which is a relic of the single-party system and there are legal, not only legal but moral issues. What are the implementation criteria? Is that alimony, that tax payments, court costs, what is that? I don't know, do the people that are done also have, they can't raise the loans, they're unable to raise the loans, they can't open the accounts, they're mutilated for the next how many years until they solve their problem with this performance. That's one big injustice. I would just mention that the Council of Europe has this instruction to tighten up and work the Financial Police. The financial police have Italy and this Italians certainly, the Austrians are even better, even better organized than these here and now look, they're out there having tax fraud about it isn't talking too much. Perhaps Mr. Bosnjakovic would need how many people when you heard that someone was convicted in Croatia for large tax fraud? Is that work, is that work, Finn? While we're killing a rabbit with a shotgun these people, large officials who, without a single employee, have gone bankrupt, still function and live like a kidney in the water. That's selective justice. We've got these social frauds. What about the casinos? How many Croatia loses per year through casinos, how many, and what about illegal casinos? It's the bank accounts outside, tell me if ever, did FINA ever find one bank account outside the country larger than 70,000 kuna, ever? We've never heard of that. When people look at this, of course they have a sense of selective justice. We have two legal systems one for those who have worked their whole lives, paid their pensions, and we have for these refugee escapes from, most of the former system, the red directors who have annulled businesses and no one at all. You, this FINA reminds me of, say, I would say, they remind me of this, the one where they suspected these, these, these, suspicions were standard procedures in the Ottoman Empire and other Islamic countries, which was done by a barber with that rusty razor. He comes for you, you're a wuss, you don't, you have to hide because you're going hiding the flame. That's how it works. That's how it works. You're being smudged and adios amigos. How is it possible that someone can, without any notice, without a court order to execute his bank account, he has no idea. That's scary. I think first of all, first of all, we need to get rid of this, this relic from the former system, to establish a real, real functional organization and synergies between all these institutions to clean up society and start chasing these defaults, which have not paid taxes. Example one, EPH. How's that? Mr. Pavić is still working, and these other heads are working. How much money is it? We have that, that relic from, there from the madhouse, that Babic at the Index, etc., they can sit here all day, we haven't solved it, and we handle people who live off their salaries, who work, fulfill their civic duty here, but these others, these dinosaurs, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202289	The respected representative Zekanovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202290	Here, firmly next to Glasnović. As I said earlier in the replica, we are in a difficult economic crisis, a health crisis, health care here is fortunately, thank God, slowly edging, not in the world, but here in the Republic of this is the end of it. However, economic will continue and we are only actually entering the economic crisis and only for the next months and years will we feel the burden of the crisis. A year, it's very important to point out. What is happening today will have repercusions to the economic system of the Republic of Croatia for the next few years. And there will be a number of cuts, a number of borrowings and that famous word that used to be used, today a little less "important reforms", a reform of the economic system. I made one point earlier, and now I'm going to do it again. When you have some kind of crisis it can be a very good basis for a reboot, for a fresh start. Let's use this extremely difficult situation, never bigger than the creation of a Croatian state than the Homeland War, for one reboot, to make that one shift that we didn't have the courage, knowledge or will to make before. Here we're talking specifically today about the done ones, the people whose accounts are blocked. It's not about a couple of hundred people, not a couple of thousand, it's about hundreds of thousands of people who simply didn't make it possible for the state to exist. There are people who have fallen into this situation with their own guilt, there are people who have raised, unreasonablely... loans, buy cars, cell phones, houses, go to big jobs and fail. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they risked and failed. But I'm not talking about the team, even if we have to deal with them. I'm talking about that one group that's the most numerous within this group, which is people who live extremely modestly, who only have a few thousand kunas of income or pensions and who simply can't pay their bills, and that's what the state can't figure out that with a few thousand kunas, 3.00 or 4,000,00 kn, and then two salaries like that, and then three more or four children or two children alone, can't live and function. And such families, unfortunately, we have very, very many. And whatever these families give up everything and cars and travels and summers and winters and cafes and restaurants and everything and others, let's say, unnecessary costs, the question is what is needed, which is unnecessary, they simply can't function. Now, if the state doesn't care about that one most sensitive layer of society, I won't say, I won't say for all the measures that this government has made before and before, but the fact is that today we have hundreds of thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia who can't work with their salaries. Well, here's what I'm going to mention, some professions, professions that are kind of our focus here. Nurses, cops. One rookie cop, do you know how much he's paid? You can't live with that salary, you can't pay under-citizenship, you can't raise and feed a child with that salary. So, a Croatian policeman who stands out in the open all day, in the sun, in the wind and in the rain and does his job consciously, with that salary, the basic salary of a policeman, can't work. And when he or someone with his income comes into the situation that he hasn't paid a phone bill or an electricity bill or anything, the state here is ruthless. And now that key thing we have in mind. Is there enough money in the system? There is. Who's got it? Do the banks have it? And we all know that banks today, not just those, but let's just get them here in this, this minute that I have left, to single out, to make one enormous profit. Let's do that redistribution. Why would someone in the Republic of Croatia on the back of the poorest, the poorest make enormous profits, millions and millions of kunas, dare say and billions of kunas, and the rest of the country through the FINA, through all possible other instruments, will sit on the bill every month and take it from that poor man that he will not live out of debt slavery while he lives. And this second one, while he's alive, will have so much money that he'll throw himself at every turn. And this is really one truth, we really need to keep this in mind, and you Minister, here's to try to hear these words out of the best will and best intentions. Come on, be a little like that, I always say, be a dude, so take some of those banks out of your pocket and let's share those that are done and that we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202291	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS in the name of which the respected representative Stjepan Curaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202292	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, practically, what we passed two weeks ago by law where we were actually changing the Act on the implementation of the law on money, we are now completing it with the second medal of that same practical law, that is, first of all, intervention measures in this executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the duration of this crisis. I think it's more or less the same, so what we discussed at the time, was why, for which it's all clear, so one delay over the implementation of the performances and now we're talking about both salaries and pensions, then we had for those who seized funds and standing 60 days on the FINA. So there's no one, the other, the third, under the same conditions, if it's about restraint, criminal proceedings, etc., so we have one delay that lasts for 3 months, that can be prolonged if this occurs for the next 3 months. What is good is that, during the special circumstances, there is no strained interest and what we have recently introduced here is a regulation, in fact, temporary intervention in bankruptcy reasons prescribed by the bankruptcy law, so someone because of this newly created situation, if they meet the conditions for bankruptcy, does not have to be governed by the law, otherwise the law requires you to submit or request for pre-demand proceedings or bankruptcy, if certain conditions of insolvency or any of the following conditions are met for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure itself. So here and legally what we all know in nature that and did is prescribed as the responsibility of the responsible persons themselves, the supervisory boards and the board of directors in the societies. So, I think the HNS Club of course this will accept that here the exceptions are the same more or less that they were and when we spoke two weeks ago. As far as new exceptions are concerned, this is what is good, which I can stress, as has already been said, that the funds paid as a measure to help the economy and natural persons in the light of the recent circumstances are also excluded from the exercise and I think that the funds that are paid for the same purpose, implementation of the project... The means also, we know who this implication has to do with self-approval of funds and their timely use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what I'd like to stress is that this doesn't mean and that's what citizens should be told, that they, thank God who can do it, don't have to pay their bills anymore. That doesn't mean that. We did not bring here a law on forgiveness of payment of debts, bills or someone must, anyone who has ordered a certain service, who has used something, especially if funds and has, must be paid to make it quite clear. We can't and in general when we talk about all the tasks to be subject to some general populist sphere, no one has to pay anything because a lot of these performances are not the performances that are necessary for life, we have these services, we have telephony, cell phones, etc., so it wasn't something that was necessary for people and they couldn't pay. Of course, with all due respect to those who have really fallen into such situations that they do not. But believe me, there's less of a number like those who simply couldn't handle their property or were brought in accidentally or intentionally into such a situation. So the debts must be paid back, someone must be paid honestly for his service, work, or whatever is agreed upon. But this recognizes the time we're in. And we absolutely support it, and I think that we're all very complex that these aren't regular times and that this is where we have to react and the government is reacting, exactly what was mentioned here, that in one law we didn't take in another, now it's systematically, systematically made to work, and I don't think that in these two weeks we haven't missed much, important that we brought it in today. So, another appeal, what is being done by the stalemate, doesn't mean that the executions can't be taught, they'll fit in the order of collection, they'll just not be spent, but they'll welcome you. There's no forgiveness for anything you used, bought or didn't pay, took over a favor, whatever it was. So once again, this does not mean forgiveness from paying for everything, this just means recognising the situation that in times when there is no income, when people have lost jobs, when the general state has banned someone from doing, not by their own free will, he has lost his job and not by his own will he does not work, then he admits that he can't legally persuade you to pay for something that the state doesn't give you the opportunity to earn. When these conditions are met and it's going to be a big test and a question, because once we say it can, it doesn't mean that everyone will automatically go back there like nothing happened, it's going to take a certain period, it's going to take this same period and it's going to take them to recognize and legally, and it's probably why 3+3 was put here because we're going to have to enable that month to return, and surely this won't last for a month, two days to fix it. And not all people will immediately have jobs, especially when we know what our tourist season has been doing and that everything is good now and that we say tomorrow, everyone can, there is no more infection, there is nothing left, we will still be recovering for months and therefore it is good that this is supposed to be 3+3 because this doesn't just mean when it's an extraordinary circumstance and I would like it to be, by no amendment now, perhaps in some just sentence not to talk about special circumstances, but also the consequences of special circumstances during that period of the day after. Because when we say they're not special circumstances anymore, it doesn't mean that the next day everything's back. We have to admit these certain consequences, and I believe that through this 3+3 formula, this is exactly what will apply to these consequences caused by the special circumstances that can, behold, last at least, they will last for years, unfortunately, to some extent, hopefully as little as possible, but at least it will last later. Because when we say the next day, it doesn't mean that he'll be welcomed by the job, and if he does, he'll be able to earn his salary on that job, if we talk about craftsmen. And that's just as important to say. Therefore, not only special circumstances but also the consequences of the same special circumstances. Again, on the other hand, we cannot share here with a hand and a hat and chat to the citizens, say nothing for a year, no one has to pay anything, thank God those who may need it because eventually the debts will have to come back. But first of all, we recognize this and the government and we all here with our proposals, we recognize that special times require special measures and is exactly one of these, so the HNS Club will, of course, support this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202293	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202294	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a time in which no one should be particularly stressed that there have been really special circumstances. We'll have some new normality, some new circumstances, and we'll live under some other conditions. A huge number of people in Croatia and companies and crafts in which they own or work cannot work and earn a living. The government and the national headquarters decided at the start stage to take very restrictive measures to ban all sectors of the economy, ban movement and gathering and all the decisions they have made. There have already been many words about that rigor in this assembly, but I will be sure even more in the future. But regardless, it is absolutely clear in itself that this epidemic and the measures it has been cannot go through without serious consequences on the economy and income of people. In this sense, even in such times even more current than otherwise, old Croatian problems become adversities and bankruptcys. Those two words always have the sound of an evil fate for our people, and often that's how it really ends. We don't particularly in the case of a mission to go out and find some golden environment, some right path, find some solution. Equally for a time, the slaughter of debts was on the other side where no one could charge, and the rights of the believers were a dead letter on paper, and then the slaughter rocked to the other side and the executions grew in the sky, sitting without the debtors being informed at all, pushing fear into the bones of the people every time the mailman rang. The problem is still not quite solved, although it has been working on for years and should not be stopped. Believers must have a way to collect their debts within a reasonable period of time, but also debtors in the process cannot remain without basic rights and means of life. But I'm sure that this debate is waiting for us again when the situation is normal. I'm talking about a new normal situation, so we're going to see what it's going to be like and how in that normal, new normality we're going to function in the first place. Now, today, we need to see what happens to people who are unannounced and planned, suddenly overnight, and many have fallen significantly due to the state's decision. So, the state's decision, to repeat it, was clear, unequivocally, behind it all stood because it decided to protect people's lives first, the decision of the state was that some people could not, not that they couldn't, but they couldn't do it. One of these measures that arises behind it and that it tries to solve, in part, solves some of the problems is this law. Adversities and bankruptcys, that should be said loud and clear, except in really exceptional situations they really have to stop temporarily. We agree with the basic idea of this law and generally agree with the way it is formulated. The Justice Committee had serious objections that we consider reasonable and that we really think should be accepted because they would improve the quality of this law and we're going back to that story, don't be, I'm telling the ruling ones on a one-way street. Don't let when you speak without opposition accept your suggestions that it's a constructive opposition, and when he says think about it, let's see, let's turn it on, talk about it then it's populism. No, populism. Give us reasonable choices, reasonable suggestions, suggestions that are absolutely clear to us, don't reject them just, shake your hand and reject them, think and turn them on. In addition to stopping the performances and bankruptcys in this law are important and exceptional. One of the possible implementation problems could be to withdraw at least for a time those who are justly excluded from this measure. In particular, I mean those who owe alimony or other forms of restraint and those who did not pay salaries, severances and other work fees. The possibility that due to the initial non-compliance in the implementation of this law and those released from payments will cause additional damage to those in this society that have already been significantly damaged. Therefore, implementation must take special care of such cases. Respected representatives of the promoter, you are probably also clear from the direction of the speech that the Voice will support it. We will support it because we believe it is a necessary measure and we do not want to sharpen political teeth on it, but believe me, it would be exactly the same amount of work and effort that we have decided to separate both the law and the proposings into simple factors and to claim that the measure is delayed, insufficient, wrongly set without clear criteria and fuses etc., etc. Sometimes when speaking from this pay phone, you should also send certain messages, messages of responsibility. The responsibility we feel and that we are up to in this situation assumes that we understand what is the most important priority. This is a situation where you really need to understand what your priorities and priorities are to define your decisions. And any time, no matter what, it's not just a political struggle for fighting. It would be good, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we all do it together, and all of you sitting together, who are ruling, occasionally understand and act that way. It would be a good idea to act like that, and now that they're going on pre-election tours by signing a construction contract, while everyone else is forbidden to gather more than 5 people at the same place and at the same time. Never to anyone, so it's never the same for everyone, but there are some things where at least everyone has the same initial positions. And if the same starting positions aren't good, try running the race, even if it's a marathon, if someone, if someone's starting position is different, until you get to their starting position, this one's already close to the finish line. So it would be very good if we all understood this responsibility, that there are no decisions of the headquarters that are one way to treat one another, and in another way, there are situations where we really have to do our job responsibly. In these situations the opposition is more than responsible, aware of the fact that it is, aware that even sometimes we vote for some proposals that, in some other conditions, those normalities before the coronaryvirus would not vote, but now he is aware that we are sending a message to the citizens to take care of them. But the same energy to make a semi-product can be used and you can make one whole proposal. And so this is a time when we should listen to each other, respect each other, and make the best decisions that are for our citizens. The opposition to this pay phone and everything it says doesn't apply to petty politics, the opposition at these moments is very constructive, very reasonable, and as I have already said, listen to the proposals that were on the Justice Committee, you have the opportunity to improve this law and I don't see any reason not to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202295	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats, and time will be shared by respected representatives Beljak and Vlaovic, first respected representative of Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202296	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear and esteemed colleague Mrak-Taritash, thank you for saying on my behalf that we of the opposition are reasonable. Did you use that word? ... Here, I'm going to try to be a little bit more unreasonable now because I have less and less understanding of the proposals that come and for the constant insurgences of us from the opposition so we shouldn't talk or criticize or anything else that's the situation, so we turn out to be politicians. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I don't think that's true. The law of conduct. I'm into the word "above" even though I graduated from secondary and primary education in the former state, I heard it only in the '90s, it was, I had to look for a dictionary then, it was a kidnapping. So as far as I remember, and I remember well, these looting began in a drastic way, and the Republic of Croatia is one of the countries that have the most rigorous Act of Oversight, or of prey, because this law has allowed interest, it's legal to kidnap and throw on the streets of families and children, many times unfairly and many times outside of every logic and beyond any Christian morality, which is exactly what those who have passed that law, and that is HDZ, so often like to call. The changes you have suggested are to welcome, welcome, but not enough, in no case is enough. This opportunity is, that is, this crisis is an opportunity for all of you, for all of us to start over, and even in this matter, about the execution, mostly the unjust, so what's right, what's long, what's to determine, what's done in a way that someone's kidnapped someone, it needs to be charged, but not in a way that only certain institutions profit there. There's already been talk about it, the most banks that have absolutely no understanding, no social aspect, and they don't care, and that's what you, you who have given or passed that law, that's what you've allowed them to behave in exactly the most arrogant way possible, in the way that we btw. By 1990, we could only read in comic books like "Alan Ford", whatever the past system was with a lot of mistakes, with a lot of bad things, that system gave flats to workers and didn't force them out. I'm listening to HDZ representatives and their chips, and the sluts, almost amazing what they're saying, who remind us from the opposition that we can't criticise here, we can't talk, we can't possibly exist, we can't exist, we can't exist. It is not enough that HDZ bought practically all the media in the Republic of Croatia from the beginning of this crisis. In fact, yesterday was a show called "Open" on public television with 4 guests from HDZ. This is probably the first time since 1990, I don't know when the last time happened that in a show that should be some kind of forum, where there should be some independent experts, if they're not already representatives of the authorities and the opposition, they're exclusively representatives of the HDZ. Every day we read in the papers, we watch on TV, only we pop up commercials about the earliest youth of a HDZ, about a variety of life-threatening situations of another HDZ, so the media very clearly subtly from HDZ members create heroes. But what's happening, which is amazing, which is the trend of the last few days that these heroes you in HDZ bought through the media to become heroes are starting to embarrass you. So, the people who are members of the National Staff in the last few days, we have a case, they start to shame themselves that they're members of the HDZ. So on the direct question of Mr. Capaka's journalist whether he's a member of the HDZ, he doesn't know what to say, so one crazy situation, where you're trying to turn through the media into heroes, of course for the purpose of pre-election campaign, strengthening HDZ ratings, and they're defending themselves, and they don't know if they'd be wise in this situation at all to say that they're HDZ members. And it's not just Mr. Capak. Alemka Markotic, who, behold, downloaded and returned the video on which it is clear that she supports presidential candidate Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, I don't know what would be controversial, so it is perfectly normal, so it is known that she is, so that she is not even aware that a HDZ member has the right to support who she wants, so I don't understand at all any other motive to download this video except the shame that she is a member of the HDZ. So indeed HDZ, all HDZ representatives, all members of the government should ask what is happening that heroes, newly acquired heroes of this situation, are ashamed to be members of the party. Otherwise, I think they have something to be ashamed of, and this will be continued by colleagues Vlaovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202297	It wasn't really about the subject, but I guess the theme will now be discussed by the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202298	Thank you very much. So we at HSS were saying from the beginning that in the course of this crisis, pandemic, COVID-19 must not be an execution and there must be no action and we felt that this law that we are discussing today and what we adopted last week should be in the package of measures immediately from the beginning of March that it should not be delayed. And the reason is because part of the economy warned the government of difficulties in business and that many people would lose their jobs. The government did not respond in time and more than 25 thousand people were unemployedly reported to the Employment Service as unemployed and probably many of them will be, because they cannot carry out their obligations, tomorrow blocked, and we think that this law should have been applied, and also the possibility of him going by the end of this year, certainly this 3+3 will not be enough because many of these people will not return to work, many more employers will have a difficult business due to the measures ordered by the Civil Protection Staff and suffer damages due to it. Surely there should be a prominent problem of the unresolved status of seasons and permanent seasonal workers waiting for work this summer at sea, and most of them are people from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. For them no solution has been found, I have repeatedly pointed out here that a solution must be found for seasons that have lost their income, and unfortunately here, by ruling this they have not yet found a solution and precisely these seasons have sought me out, and somewhere 1758 is newly reported to the Employment Office in the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Many of them are seasons that can't find jobs and will probably be blocked tomorrow. Therefore, the tasks must not go, it must be made possible, of course, for the believer to collect his claim, so solutions can be made, but tight interest cannot and must not run. We are also asking from this law, a moratorium on loans, because many citizens, and especially the OPGs, are impossible to agree with the bank and you have already heard that this is a more expensive variant for the user of the credit when I negotiate with the bank, so that should have been regulated legally, and that's what we in the HSS are also looking for. Especially for the part blocked, and 1/3 of them were blocked, because they could not go to their plots because of the orders, they had to wait to get a pass if they were in another municipality, they had to keep their agricultural products, vegetables and fruits in the freezers, if they had them. They lost part of their crops because they couldn't sell on the market, and on the other hand, you made it possible for agricultural products to be bought in trade chains, under stricter conditions than it is now on markets. And it is certain that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture must also find a solution for this part blocked from the OPG lines, but also for the overall continuation of agricultural production. They asked the associations and the HSS for direct payments to be paid by April 15th, no. We're asking you to do it quickly. We are looking for, as the associations requested, a special fund for financing agricultural production, and here, the Peasants' Union has filed a request to form a special fee for the OPGs in the amount of 50% paid, direct payments because it must have suffered damage and it is an investment in agriculture and food production. Otherwise, it will be a problem for food production, it will be a problem for our agricultural producers. If the National Headquarters has been able to prescribe measures, then the Government must not remain deaf to the request of the OPGs and associations. Because here, the crops are at the end, the corn are sown, most of them without fertilisers because people didn't have the means and they're left with our peasants only to sing the beekeepers. Since it's dry, it's gonna be that, uh, peasants, corn is small, now you're... you're dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202299	We'll move on to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative of the Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Allow me to step outside the framework of this law in this individual debate, but on the subject that is very closely connected to it. So, by this law, as I was saying when I debated on behalf of the club, we address the problem of enforcement under special circumstances. My colleagues, please. ... My colleagues, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're talking about special circumstances of conduct. However, I will remind you, Mr. Minister, two years ago you are after the SDP presented a way to regulate the implementing legislation and you have personally announced that a new Implementing Law will be adopted within the next few months. It has been 2 years since then, but not only has it been 2 years since in December of last year we voted in the second reading on the Executive Law and we referred it to the third reading, it has been 4.5 months since then, and the deadline for the Rules of Procedure for apart between the two readings is 6 months. If the Executive Act is not addressed to HS within the next month and a half, the Rules of Procedure will be deemed to have given up the proposal. Since these address only the acute, current problem of the performance, only special circumstances, and that the problem of the exercise is far broader, as the problem of the Croatian judiciary is far broader than that of the problem relating to COVID-19 disease, my question to you is and I expect a very clear answer, can we expect a third reading of the Executive Law or have you given up on that proposal because of its lack of quality? So that's a very important question because this, I'm going to repeat, we address only the current, current problems of the performance today, just the question of carrying out the performance at the time of the epidemic, but not the essential problems that have led to such an extraordinary solution today having to be made. And the other thing that's directly related to the problem of the performance, and it got a little out of our mind, we forgot a little about it because the government ignores it is a matter of moratorium on loans. When we talk about the Executive Law often colleagues and colleagues, they flee to presenting the Executive Law as the only problem and the only solution to the problems of non-payment in the Republic of Croatia. However, colleagues and colleagues, the Implementing Law deals only with the consequences, only with the consequences of the problem of non-payment. The causes lie elsewhere and there are many, from a bad economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, of unfortunately in some segments of the culture of non-payment, from poor economic literacy, and at this particular moment of COVID-19 disease, one of the causes of non-payment which will tomorrow lead to new enforcement procedures is the fact that when their incomes are reduced, citizens cannot settle their obligations on an equal and regular basis. This is why the SDP proposed a moratorium on loans and not any moratorium on loans, but one that would last 12 months until the expected duration of the pandemic plus and some period after the economy began to return to normal because it would take years to return and we predicted that interest would not flow during that time. A similar solution is predicted by you in this law. You say that during the course of the executive proceedings, no legal tightening interest will be charged or in the executive procedures during the period of special circumstances. But look, Mr. Secretary, how unfair it is. On the one hand, we forgive those who have come to maturity, against whom procedures are being conducted because they have failed to comply with their interest obligations, and those who regularly pay their obligations, those who pay daily the wars of their credits, and tomorrow they will not be able to pay them because they simply lose their jobs, because the minimumer that the government has provided will not be enough, we make them pay full-scale wars. And if they accept the delay in the way the banks predicted it for the entire duration of that moratorium, they will pay interest on the entire amount of credit, so some people will be delayed where 6 wars would amount to around 18,000 kuna, interest on the principal for those 6 months will come 12,500 kuna. Mr. Minister, once again, this law should be supported, I hope that you will thus support the amendments we have proposed, but it is only one pebble, just one move of rain in a wider picture that we have not yet begun to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202301	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202302	...respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jelkovac made clear her support for this law. What I'd like to add is that with this law and the law that we've passed 16. April, which refers to the implementation of the budget implementation by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been blocked, who have been executed by this law and by that earlier law at the time of special circumstances when the crisis of the world pandemic of the coronary virus has contributed to the reduction of business activities, the decline of the income of individual economic operators, as a result clear to the reduction of wages, the difficulties in the work and life of our fellow citizens who will most feel the weight of such a situation are persons who are blocked and completed. It is therefore absolutely appropriate for the government to react and refer to the HS both sets of laws in this way. It was clear that some of our fellow citizens who, due to the inability to carry out this performance we have now stopped will suffer huge consequences, and then there are clear exceptions that will apply to 8,000 persons and who are still users of the child support as well as 21,000 of our pensioners who have been completed and who will not be able to carry out the implementation of the HZMO in this way. It should also be pointed out in particular that the law also regulates the fact that bankruptcy proceedings are being opened with legal persons who, for the very reason of this crisis, are going through the inability to function normally and this law prevents bankruptcy. And what is important, what should be mentioned here, is the fact that this also applies to potential executives, who at the moment are not perpetrators, but who could become executives over the next few months because since neither the World Health Organization nor the experts, above all the epidemiological profession, are aware of when it will happen and when we will be able to mark the end of the world pandemic or epidemic in Croatia, it is possible that many of our fellow citizens will find themselves in a similar position for these reasons and the possibility of normal business of economic operators in Croatia, thus referring to them. What I was also going to say is that through this crisis that we have experienced because of the crown of the virus and when it comes to preserving the health of our fellow citizens, their lives, we have done as much as possible, and thus as a state, we have been placed at the very top of European and world states when it comes to the number of people who died and in absolute and relative terms, which means that we have prescribed enough time for the measures that we have made possible, that we have allowed and preserved the lives of our fellow citizens and the lives of our fellow citizens. But what is important and what we have proven to be a state is that we are a functional state, that there is this social solidarity in Croatia, that the system as much as it is attacked and as much as it can be better still can respond to these challenges in quality. If under these circumstances the Government had done everything with its economic measures to save jobs, to preserve business activities, to enable the liquidity of our entrepreneurs. And what I particularly want to point out is the fact that we were able to come out as Government and with such measures is the result of what the government has done over the past 3.5 years to stabilise the Croatian economy, to stabilise public finances, to GDP growth, to the surplus of the state budget. And thanks to that fact, we could come up with measures that are relatively relative to the size of GDP somewhere around 10% which places us at the very top of the EU Member States. So, Mr. Minister, I certainly support this law. He will certainly help many of our fellow citizens to cope with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202303	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202304	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. You said that economic growth in the Republic of Croatia has so far been secured by the government. Do you know that 6% of GDP is from those who have evicted bad policies from the Republic of Croatia and now these people abroad are the same in problems and that this is one of the biggest problems of demographics. Another very important thing that you mention that these measures you are taking are measures that should be taken for a much longer period, not just for one period to make you better prepared for the election. So, don't politicize the measures and the crisis, but tell the truth to the people in the eyes, and these measures must be minimum for a year until our citizens are recovered. So, this time we have to be exclusively in the service of the people, and the first measure that the Tribal was to be, the tribal is to be a moratorium on interest and loans, what MOST has proposed since the first moment, what other countries have brought in as well. Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202305	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not often like to call in this assembly for polls and studies of public change, but my colleague Bulj is just those indicators that say that 60% of Croatians, respondents who are quite representative of the sample, say that in this crisis the Croatian Government, and then clearly HDZ as the biggest party in that government, lead and bring the right measures and lead Croatia in the right direction, deny all of this as you said. So, this indicator speaks enough about that we also brought measures in time, that the measures were correct, that they were rational, that they were proportionate to the situation in which Croatia is located. And that's what we'll insist on, no matter what you think and care about both citizens and entrepreneurs in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202307	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Marko Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202308	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have come to this debate for the reason that here today, in the discussions of my colleagues, I have heard a lot of conflicting views about this topic that we are discussing today, and these are interventional measures in the executive and bankruptcy proceedings and citizens who are observing these discussions, therefore from this data forest that is contradictory, which is therefore contradictory, so data can really be difficult to tell each other what is real and what corresponds to the actual facts. The Corona virus has hit all over the world. There's not a single country that doesn't have any patients. We had our first patient in the Republic of Croatia on February 25th, already on March 17th, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed the first package of measures to recover the economy or to repair the damage. After that, by listening and communicating with so many associations, and primarily with employers' associations, with caterers with all those affected by this crisis and the emerging situation, the Government has approached the creation of a second package of measures which is therefore in a much more serious way, in a much more concrete and comprehensive way, bringing the newspaper into our economic system and tried to solve most of the problems that have arisen from this crisis. In this second package, even during the first package, the minister had his recommendation to influence the judicial system where he requested the suspension or suspension of all the tasks carried out therein. In the second package of measures which took effect on 18.4., so a few days ago, the law therefore halted the exercise carried out through the FINA on 244,000 executive procedures. The execution of 244,000 performers, of which 236,000 citizens of natural persons and 10,000, has been stopped, slightly more than 10,000 individuals carrying out their own activities. When we assume that 233,000 accounts of natural persons have been unblocked in this crisis, we see that 18 April solved most of the problem. Once it has been seen that there are still people who have a purpose in the implementation, the adoption and drafting of this bill and its adoption and debate in HS have been joined. If we look at how many of these measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken in two packages and projections of their cost for the state and state budget, it would be some 70 billion and more than 70 billion. It is important to note that such measures as they represent according to the projections of 9% of the GDP of one state can only be done by the state and government, which is indeed in some mandate or time at their disposal, at least making the economy at least stable, if nothing else can find resources and measures that will, in a comprehensive and adequate way, help the economy to stand on its feet, not fail and not fall into some excessively large dubiosis that we will not be able to come out of for decades. We are all aware that this crisis caused by the virus will cause problems, we are all aware that our entrepreneurs will not be able to achieve some big profit, but today is primarily not the goal of keeping big profits but to save the most sensitive ones. And the most sensitive really are the people who have been completed, who have been blocked, and it is important that we all adopt this law or that we have understanding on the side of the assembly where the opposition sits because I have heard that a lot of club representatives and a lot of individuals will really support this proposal. He's good, I'm glad that a lot of MPs participated in some kind of giving their opinion and co-creation of this bill, that they also participated in the initiation of this law. But here's the thing if today's HDZ and the HDZ government are nominated, then we have to say that HDZ and the HDZ government and coalition partners, and even some chips that are mentioned, have been solved by both the first and second package of measures and all the assistance that has been provided to the completed and blocked in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202309	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202310	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shimic. The reality will only come, which will be the result of this pandemic of the coronary virus that was, what will be behind it for the economy, which will be some new normality, I'm sure at this point you can't give the answer, I can't give it, and it's hard for anyone to give the real answer. We can only see experts doing what they predict, how many years it will take to recover and everything. But my replica refers to the fact that you started your discussion that you came forward because of contradiction, so I'm wondering what the contradiction is in our discussions? So, on the side of the opposition, you've heard the remarks that are that the opposition is constructive, that we know that any assistance that is good for our citizens is welcome. But of course we want to point out the problem we see, which could be very simple to remove just because there is no stubbornness on the part of the ruling ones. So what's the contradiction that's bothering you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202311	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202312	I thank you for the question of my dear colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Yeah, I said contradiction, but I didn't want to repeat what the MPs said. The first contradiction would be that the government did not respond quickly or quickly with the first package of measures, so I said it was the first one in late February, and already in early March, the government had measures that included new regulation and change in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the second package of measures is certainly a contradiction that the Government is doing nothing, this third measure or correction to this third measure and the addition of the second package, I am sure that it shows that the Government has very good hearing for those who have been blocked and completed. And today we have heard that there is no, today we have heard that nothing has been done, and already in 18.4. there has been an execution that goes through FINA for 244,000 blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia. This is very important and it is important to repeat that this law alone includes 21,000 pensioners on the performances that have been carried out on the salary so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202313	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202314	Thank you. Coliga Šimić and me and we from HSS... support this law, but we rightly said it should have been in the first package of measures because, in the meantime, since it was late with the measures, more than 20,000 were somewhere around 25,000 people lost their jobs and are located at the Employment Office, there are 1,758 newly unemployed in the regional field office in Osijek of Employment. And no problem has been solved by seasonal workers who have lost their jobs, especially those who are young and who have no compensation from the Employment Service. And I hope that you support my debate because I asked for more attention to agriculture and the OPGs, and I hope that you do not support the statement that the Prime Minister said yesterday in Belgium that this is an example of good practice, and I am saying that for the reason it is 2017. White business with a loss of billions and 38 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202315	The answer of the respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202316	Dear colleague Vlaović. With one piece of your replica I can really agree with, and I'll tell you my opinion because I'm a part entrepreneur and before I come into politics, I've run one company, so I'm still thinking as an entrepreneur. You know, entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia and everywhere in this capitalism are often played by the state, regardless of which government was headed by the state and who led the state or any of the resistors affecting the formation and strength of the economy. So the entrepreneurs in this crisis, too, were blowing cold. Many of them had stopped their business activities before they were closed, before the measures were taken, closed their stores, stopped their business activities, and sent their employees to the Employment Service. A lot of them did so before the measures themselves or the laws governing the measures came into force. Today, if you communicate with entrepreneurs, you will hear that most entrepreneurs are employed, that they want to return those workers they fired and that the situation is changing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202317	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202318	Thank you very much. My friend, you said here, the opposition will accept this proposal. Well, yeah, the MoST of Independent Lists and other parties of opposition, they thundered a delay, not a delay, but a write-off for entrepreneurs. We had a moratorium on top, on all the errands, not only with FINA, but here, today came this part of di di being entrepreneurs, pensioners and others. Also, we shrub what they did first, which was supposed to be the first step, which is what our neighbouring country, Slovenia, is about to do for a year on loans and interest. It wasn't done, it was supposed to be the first measure along with this now that we're bringing after a month and a few days, as a third measure, supplementing the measure, essentially, this key measure that was supposed to be the first, not the last, and not at all. Can you explain why? If Slovenia can, does the Croatian Parliament not pass that law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202319	Thank you. Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202320	Dear Representative Bulj, I really thank you for this replica and I'm glad you said you'd accept this law, and I congratulate you on that, it's another confirmation that this law is good. As far as your proposals are concerned, indeed you as a party and as an individual, you have had the opportunity to be in this government and so you participated in the creation of all the laws that this government proposes to the Parliament for their adoption, and as far as I heard from your proposals today, you say that you are the only one, so this is the only one you suggest, so if you're the only one, don't you ever wonder if that's the right way, if you're the only one? I am pleased that the government of the Republic of Croatia in communication with HBOR, CNB, with banks, with HUP, Croatian Association of Hosts, trade unions, has found solutions and adopted measures in the first and second packages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202321	Thank you very much and the last replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202322	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You stated very explicitly how much the performance carried out by FINA was halted by the law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on the money we made on April 18th, and I would also remind myself, once again, that already in mid-March, the minister here in the Assembly, when the debate took place, stressed that he had ordered his recommendations to stop all the procedures of the exercise, and that, in addition, that on 18 April, the procedures for the enforcement of both the courts and the public notebooks were stopped, and today we are formally putting it into this law together with certain measures concerning the economics or bankruptcy of the shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202323	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202324	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. Here is what I said in my debate, and I also cited the fact that the minister had already influenced the judicial system with the recommendation and that this area had been regulated before we even started discussing this law today, but after the vote of this law, this will also be passed in written form and will be binding on all actors. I wanted to point out here, when I got the opportunity, I said the number of executive procedures, the number so that 244 thousand that stop at the FINA. It's important to say one more thing. That the commitments that are stopped are about 17 billion kunas of principal and over six billion kunas of interest. And we must view this as a stop, that is, a slowdown of the Croatian economy. The question is how is this debt structured, so that when we talk about the Executive Law, we must also look out for those who are trying to collect their claims, and I think this is really the best way to solve the problem for people who have errands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202325	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202326	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, Honored Citizens. Here, we see before us a bill of law, a moratorium at 3 months plus 3 months, I think. So it's kind of timed as well as consistent with political developments in the Republic of Croatia. I'll give the amendment to extend the moratorium for a year. It would have been optimal so that there were no political games and that there was no government exactly this manipulative game about this crown of crisis, that at any moment she could decide whether to extend the meaning of moratorium, but this Parliament, this House, the triba, make a decision for a year. At the beginning of this crisis in the first steps... We were talking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only us, but the whole opposition, I didn't say so, but the whole opposition, and we weren't the only ones who spoke to a colleague, that we were the only ones who pointed out that it wasn't the one that should be delayed, but the write-off to the entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs talked about it, but you didn't want to listen, so you brought it in other measures and we accepted it. And all the time the opposition, no matter what you don't accept the proposals, the amendments, which you subsequently accept our proposals, we vote all the time and we are constructive for the proposals. But you're not constructive. You're politicizing this crown crisis because this would be the first decision, not the last decision. This would be a moratorium for a year, the first decision with a moratorium on loans and interest. What many countries have done, the Minister of the Sea is easy to check, they have daily data that states, and we can also colleagues and colleagues, so you'll see, I said. In Slovenia, the first measure was a moratorium on interest, on loans and interest because the banks were well-indulgent colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Slovenia. Four billion kunas only profit from fees, fees and well-moved Croatian people, the Croatian people who first received 90 billion kuna from the criminal groups' budgets to take over who or who knows who took over the Croatian banks with custody accounts. At this point we have no other measures but measures a year moratorium on loans and interest with these measures that we bring and which we have warned, pointed out, made amendments. My colleague, you voted against, your HDZ colleague, you voted against these amendments for this law that you speak. And it wasn't just us saying it either. The same thing happened, the same thing with an exclusive economic belt, the same thing is with an agricultural land of 800,000 hectares is unprocessed, 400 is state-owned, and so far you haven't received even 1%, and 20 times the agricultural land law is passed. Our agricultural land is unsettled, we have to plow the fields, we have to start working, and you expect this crisis, the crown crisis on the virus, that now the people are clapping at you for what you've destroyed so far, what you've evicted to Slavonia, my Dalmatian Zagora. This is what we have since the County of Split-Dalmatia since the Dalmatian County went to 100,000 people. We don't have the irrigation of the sonic field, we don't have the sewers, and the funds lie, we don't have the agglomeration speech is that there's absolutely nothing going on except your bosses' teleopers and bankers. The largest profits in the EU have teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, and banks have well-wrought the pockets of Croatian peoples. And at this point this measure is fair, this measure is just to give the Croatian people the banks and make a moratorium on loans and interest. Not the bank's goodwill, but like other parliaments and other MPs who voted in favour of these measures if they are not held by the banks. I asked a question earlier from a colleague through a replica from HDZ, which is why this government and this Parliament are not proposing to the Parliament, and we suggested it, I don't know why they don't want to accept it, that the moratorium on loans and on interest. Which is why, I didn't get the answer, you switched completely to another story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202327	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202328	I agree with you that a year should not go because the fact that most of our people who are blocked will not be able to make such revenue this year because of the crisis in the economy and their jobs are questionable and will not be able to fulfil the obligation after three or six months most likely of them. And it's not just enough not to take interest on the charges but to make a moratorium bill on loans, you're right, that's what we from the HSS were looking for. And what when you mention other countries, other countries went with FPG direct funds and liquidity crafts, for crafts to organize production. The national headquarters now imposes new measures, new costs, and no money on hairdressers and other craftsmen. Let them look up to Germany, some other countries to give the OPGs and craftsmen directly so they can start production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202329	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202330	Thank you very much. That we were trying to fight the opposition. The whole time we proposed no amendments were accepted, no matter what the opposition was all the time constructive and she accepted the government's proposals, but they didn't hear it, it's simply at this point the first measure that had to be, not at this moment, the moratorium on interest and credit. And the one we're discussing today was supposed to be the first measure. And when we talk about agriculture, if anything the government does, it's strong measures, divided agricultural land, pump money into smaller farms for our people to stay in the country without rich villages there's no rich country. We have impoverished the state with the bad policies of that we are witnesses and now need strong measures, meaning the strongest measures, and not the favoring and advocacy of banks, but the sole work for the people this time. You're naked with this virus to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202331	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202332	Thank you, Vice President HS. The Honorable Ministers. At first, it should be said to support this proposal immediately. The truth is too late, it's late, and this is what my colleague Alexic warned him about today, and you didn't answer him. I'm going to ask that question one more time as I understand it and how most citizens ask. So, pensions for April will practically be completed in May, so the first time they sit on the accounts they will already be completed. And what makes sense to me is that if there's nothing that can be done about it right now, and I'd like you to make it clear that for those citizens whose pensions will be completed in the month of May for the month of April to extend by one month of moratorium, that would be at least in one hand just. I am also aware that the law is clear and that the law should be respected, but the observation is that no timely fair measures have been taken, the opposition warned this, and I think the ministers that you and your associates should talk about it. In fact, I am aware of the fact that if we observe the work of headquarters since 13 March when the first more serious measure was taken, which is the closure of our schools and colleges, then on March 19th, when the service and other activities of the non-food trade are closed, then on March 22nd comes the earthquake that hit Zagreb and then on March 23rd a decision is made to ban leaving the place of residence. It is clear to me that no one can convince me that this decision has been made for the citizens of the City of Zagreb, so that they do not now spread across Croatia. There's no long reason why civil headquarters in municipalities and cities actually came up with one problem where they begged to report citizens, so the State's Attorney's office dealt with the case in Virovitica where the fire department was, I think they were at the civil protection headquarters, at the checkpoint, they caught a man who had a forged ID, a pass as it was called, and the man didn't go to the store, I guess he went with another entrepreneur to help unload something. The whole situation has come across, of course, the government and the ministries and they haven't, and now they say, and now if we listen carefully to what the headquarters is saying, it's hard to predict what's going to happen in the future other than any choice, they can be predicted. So that's how they predict it for the month of July. We see that the prime minister is going on a campaign in the city of Osijek. What the citizens are interested in is, when schools will open, when playgrounds will open, and when life will begin to flow. So, the poorest citizens of those who are not released at this time are bound to do their HZMO pensions will be completed in the month of May and this is the problem of this legislative proposal and we have warned about this, that is what my colleague Alexic has warned him many times, you have not listened to him once and you have not given him an answer. And one more thing about entrepreneurship, because our problems didn't arise with Covid-19, our problems lead to deep roots, and it's good that bankruptcy procedures can be extended in this way, that they don't go into bankruptcy proceedings. However, the whole Executive Law, that should be clearly said, the entire Executive Law has been done to protect the believer, not the debtor, the believer. We strive because of the specific circumstances in the Republic of Croatia where the poorest citizens are exposed to blockades, so she and entrepreneurs, those entrepreneurs are not in a better situation, exposed to blocks from which they cannot get away because they, and there are cases of ministers, you can agree with me, there are cases where the state is obliged to do so, so they cannot service their obligations and then comes to them, comes a situation where they have to declare bankruptcy. On this side, I welcome this decision that, that a bankruptcy procedure can be postponed unless it is required by the company's own owner, but it will not solve the situation but will deepen it because anyway these mutual relations that are not charged will be difficult to resolve. It was good, it's a good point that the state only charges VAT on the bill, and not on the invoice issued, because that's the only way, it should stay and later because that's the only way the state is interested in settling each other's claims. This legislative proposal, along with the amendments we're going to make, I'll most likely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202333	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202334	Thank you. After my debate on behalf of the club, I heard from a retired HV officer and with the status of the Croatian Military invalid, Zdravko Carević, whom I personally do not know, and now I will read what he wrote to me. He wrote it like this. I've been desperately waiting for your speech and I've been desperate when you've been interrupted by a diary, and I'm even more desperate to see that for the pensions in May, the executions are already registered, and I'm not going to pay for the directorship, or the director's office, and I'm ashamed that my sons are in Germany today, and they don't think I'm coming back to them by heart. Here, that's what the man told me, it's just one of the people who communicate with me in this way, who are disappointed with the authorities in the Republic of Croatia and who are disappointed in the overall complete situation in which we live and I appeal once again to the government to warn HZMO not to perform at all in the next month of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202335	Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, indeed an earthquake story. I wouldn't advise a gentleman not to pay, to try every possible way to overcome this situation. A similar story is that when a man came to FINU the same thing is related to debts and the blocking of accounts, namely he was a guarantee to a man who was no longer alive. So, he's a retired, this pensioner died and he's a bailiff and told him Mrs. Finne, says unfortunately you should live another 200 years to get out of this slavery. These are all the shocking stories of people who really don't have a way out, I believe there's no way out at this point. That's why I'm criticizing both myself and I see that in your speech, both the minister and his associates did not take care of it. It is necessary to take care of people who are in a difficult situation, who are excluded from this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202337	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202338	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm going to try something individual to repeat what I think is important for the public who I hope doesn't have some journals right now, so follow or interrupt, but joke aside, I think we're doing what we need, we recognize a situation that's extraordinary and nothing is like before and nothing is normal. And that's the meaning of all these laws that recognize such extraordinary circumstances, is now things aren't business as susual. But we have the responsibility to recognize the needs, the situation and react, but we absolutely have the responsibility not to submit to those passions of courting citizens who are in trouble because that's what we use them for, knowing that we can't pass the law here that no one has to pay anything. That everyone can get all the money and that they can do whatever they want, play with other people's money and pay nothing and care. It's very dangerous. We need to balance that level very nicely. There's a lot of people, a lot of people in this crisis right now who are in this situation that they can't, and that's why we're doing this for them, but there's also those who use the curves, and now no one can do me, I'm not gonna pay, I'm gonna spend money on something else, I'm gonna put them on the side, and then later they're gonna yell that my country is guilty. And because of the very people that I believe in the minority when we look at all blocked or all the people that are threatened by the execution, I believe that they are in a minority of those who really didn't bring them into this by their actions or by their inaction. And they suffer because of those who blame themselves. When I say guilty, it means they chose something consciously, and they could, knowingly they chose to spend money, not pay their debts, not spend it on basic supplies, that's what I'm talking about. We know which vices and vices are, and we know who the luxuries are, and so on, somebody can't tell me that they can have a phone bill for 1,000 kunas, and then say there's no way to buy basic supplies or pay for electricity, so they can't. And because of those who are really put into a situation not only in this crisis but also in another series, the combination of living circumstances is all reduced to the same. And you know who's the loudest, just you, because imagine when someone comes in here and says it's not your fault, it's your country's fault. The messiahs, it's the Messiahs, imagine someone saying it's not my fault, so it's your country's fault, it's not my fault. Finally, so everyone needs it, no one should pay anything.../incomprehensible/... so this is a good thing, this is recognized special circumstances and I believe everyone will agree, it really doesn't make sense right now, but the bills have to be paid naturally we're talking to those who can. Don't let this fool you, that no interest will be charged now, okay, covert financing, crediting, all right, but those bills will come up. Sometimes when you ordered something from someone, someone worked for that money, tried to make money for their family. I'm not just talking about these big telecommunications companies where, like no one else, they've got money, so they're always the bad guys, but there's a lot of examples of small entrepreneurs, services and everything that's been bought, and it hasn't actually been paid. And that whole system is a vicious circle. It is therefore very important to separate those who are in need of those who use such things and for God's sakes, so I can even say immoral actions in the sense that they hide behind those who really need it. Of course, the HNS Club and I personally support this as well as all of us here because it's common sense. Is that a little better or can't think that the essence is acceptable to everyone and that what we talked about two weeks ago is now in order and by the same practical model that can't be done under these special circumstances? Of course, these circumstances will end, and the consequences will remain for months. And that's what we need to work on and focus all our energy on, so that these people don't give them anything but to let them earn it and pay it because I'm going back to the beginning of the story, a lot of them would pay all those bills and debts that they could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202339	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202340	Dear counterpart Curaj, of course, is always responsible for borrowing each of us individually, each citizen, but this is not a common situation, this is a pandemic of the coronary virus, and you really don't need to defend the government because it didn't respond in time, to everyone equally. Because in crisis management decisions are made in a way that covers everything, not in part. So there's no reason to ask, no one's here either, looking for an alibi for the government's unhappiness, and no one here is against this solution. But the only thing to point out is that the only thing that's true is that the reaction is too late, she's late, she doesn't know what the right is doing. He doesn't know this Ministry which are procedures in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. That's the problem. It's not a problem in anything but an eclectic delay and don't say you haven't been warned here by your colleagues and by me personally. Don't say it. You are both in debates and in breaks and in all things, you are warned. And it's the only one, the only sin of this law, the delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202341	Thank you. Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202342	I thank my esteemed colleague, I agree with you, I didn't even defend anyone, but this is the meaning of this home. What's our job then if we're not going to warn about such things and if we're not all together who warned us to argue today, then what's our job? Have a sinless government that thinks it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. If this isn't proof that we're all meant well and right then, I don't know what it is, but it's our duty and our duty because that's how this parliamentary democracy works. Now all I care about is how much damage it is and how many people have been done from the 17th to tomorrow when we vote this? Who was getting that pension from the 17th to this end, what is that number? If it's a lot, it's not, as far as it's concerned, it's these people and I agree with you. So, two weeks we could have had this before, but good to have it, we all agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202343	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, missing him, losing his right to speak, and the next individual debate would be a respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202344	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I gave the most important details on behalf of the club, and I'll repeat them in the final debate. I would like Minister Bosnjakovic to confirm that the law will be applied, that he guarantees that the law will be applied. Because the law will be in force as of 1 May of this year, and since 1 May this year, pension payments are being made and pension payments have already been calculated that people will be completed. I need a guarantee that these people will not be executed despite the HZMO's reckoning. And now I would take advantage of the opportunity, so I would read the voice of the people, read again what I said in the replica, and I would read what a man who is in big trouble wrote to me because other than having a problem with the performance, we have a problem with the credits, so I'll read what the people say about it, the specific examples I've already read this in the replica, but I'll say it one more time. So, the retired HV officer and has the status of the Croatian Military invalid, Zdravko Carevic, wrote to me after the debate I had on behalf of the club next. I've been desperately waiting for your speech and I've been desperate when you've been interrupted by a diary, and I'm even more desperate to see that for the pensions in May, the executions are already registered, and I'm not going to pay for the directorship, or the director's office, and I'm ashamed that my sons are in Germany today, and they don't think I'm coming back to them by heart. The second letter I received concerns the loan, it concerns one man who is a single parent, and I will read that letter in full. Says the man, born 1.1.1985, I'm the single father of two underage children living with me in a joint household, not receiving alimony, I'm constantly busy, and because of the general situation with the coronary virus and the reduction in the volume of the income business, I've been reduced by an annex to the labor contract. Ten o'clock. In the month of 2007, I raised a housing loan in francs, I was very young when I was 22 years old, thinking about providing my family with a roof over my head and living in my own real estate. Not long after I bought the property, I got divorced and lived alone with the children. I also paid off a loan whose war was at one time and 4,400 kuna, it was very financially difficult. I've never asked for help. At the time, the bank asked me how I couldn't even pay for it, until now, every month I pay off the wars without any warning. Now for the first time, I have asked for help not to question the roof over my children’s heads and react on time. At present, my salary is state aid worth 4,000 kuna, and the mortgage war is 2,500 kuna. I think the offer of Addico Bank where I have all the bills and loans isn't real, and it's going to get me even bigger debts, and it's going to do them good. The offer for the housing loan I've been paying for 13 years is 30 years to give me a moratorium for 6 months, and the payment of the loan extends to me for a year, with my loan wars almost the same. I would be charged interest whose share is now about 1,700 kuna per month, which means the cost of moratorium around 10,500 kuna plus the cost of a public notebook of about 2,000 kuna, which is a total of 12,500 kuna in half a year. In the second month of 2018, I raised a non-intentional loan of £40,000, and I raised it to repair the roof that failed and the war for that loan was 500 kuna. For non-intentional credit, the conditions of the moratorium are the same, the calculation of interest plus the cost of solemnisation, so this would be an additional cost. I think the loan moratorium should be free of charge for a year that would greatly help the current situation and get out of financial problems faster. I'm afraid of my family's existence because right now I'm not in a financial position to agree to such a moratorium and get into even greater debt. So I ask you to come out and help me with your decisions. I don't want to be a social case on the burden of the state that I've never been before. In advance, I hope you will read this request and accept my suggestions that are of mutual benefit. Here, we have resolved our duties, and I hope the Retirement Institute will follow the law even though it is not ready to do so yet and I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to oblige the banks to a mandatory moratorium without any interest. There's a lot of people in trouble we have to get them to meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202345	Thank you. We have several replicas of the first respected representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202346	Dear fellow Alexic, do not expect an answer from the minister. He doesn't know that, he doesn't know how HZMO works, our appeals are in vain, HZMO has to work by law and all the same contracts he has with business banks. The problem and the guilt is that when we said 15 days ago, 15 days ago during the vote, we said that there were no pensioners involved, that the government was supposed to react at the same time and not react. The pension account was delivered for April to all the business banks according to which pensioners receive, through which pensioners receive pensions from the performances and there is no help other than extending the retirement period and an apology to this dear gentleman who sacrificed his health, sacrificed his future for the sake of this country's death. as such. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202347	Dear Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202348	Thank you. A colleague of the HH Law must all respect and, since the law in the Republic of Croatia must be respected, and before all institutions in the Republic of Croatia such as HZMO, I expect that from 1 May the law will be applied in full and I expect that it will not be charged, I expect people to receive their receipts on their own accounts, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia today to do what needs to be done tomorrow, and this is to warn HZMO that it must not carry out its pensioners at all because it must not comply with the law that will enter into force on 1 May of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202349	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202350	... [[/Speech is not enabled. The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202351	Dear Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202352	Thank you. My colleague Mrak Tatitas I also somehow think it will not happen even though I felt somehow with Minister Maric and with the secretary of state that there was some dissatisfaction with these banks why they did so, as if they expected the banks to offer themselves moratories without calculating interest, and that is not possible unless they were ordered to do so. I understand that the government of the Republic of Croatia is afraid that Croatia could end up in Washington again because of such a measure, and the banks could really sue Croatia again on a bilateral agreement, because of the interest, but I believe that this time the banks would not do so. It's not as much money as it was then during the Swiss, I believe banks wouldn't do it and I'm sorry the government of the Republic of Croatia didn't have the courage to say, you won't make money during the crisis on people on their knees, especially you who robbed those people proven in the trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202353	On behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and Let's change Croatia will finally speak now by respected representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202354	Dear citizens, about half a year ago I was in Iceland, and I asked the people I spoke to there, so I talked to the most competent people who at the time made the most important decisions in Iceland, how they saved their citizens, not to tell my people at the time of the financial crisis in 2008 when literally Iceland failed. Iceland was under terrible pressure from English banks, American and other banks, and they were looking to save banks. And to make a short story short, you know what they've decided. They said we'd save the Icelandic people, so the Icelandics, and this other thing on the side, let it go to waste if it has to. Well, dear citizens, all of you who are blocked or who are ahead of us, in the process of doing so, we must finally act as Icelandics here in Croatia, but not Iceland's politicians reacted the same way to say we are going now to protect our people because they felt one humanity overnight. No, but one day all the Icelandics in Reykjavik mean there live 90% of the people they literally came to the main square and drove politicians into the corner and said no movement solve this problem or we'll throw you into the sea. And you see that's settled. So some similar message, dear citizens, we must send together these next days, and it should have been done before, and as we discuss this bill of law that I have said is an aspirin that only 2-3 months will reduce the headache of you who are blocked, which you are in the process of doing, I can't say that we here in the assembly are passing laws. So the most important law we need to pass right now is the one about saving citizens so I don't say saving the people. There is no more and more significant law. And to that end, everything must be done. However, in this country the food chain developed from public notebooks, lawyers, banks etc., etc., hence the food chain, and the largest factories blocked and producers of the largest producers blocked and completed the HRT, telecom operators, banks, and further directors, etc., etc. Let's put an end to it once more. Dear citizens, I am again sending you a message of hope. As I came to this assembly, you can see I'm making arguments. We from the Party Change Croatia offer solutions do not speak mean to empty, we offer you a solution to practically disappear problem blocked. How? And this is that practically the state emits the bond for 10 years, to buy from debt enforcement agencies that are harassing citizens, means to buy out those debts and keep the citizens on paying off their debts. However, to short the story, which would be the result of this whole major operation that the CNB would have to participate in, the Croatian Post Bank, HABOR, would be the ultimate result that citizens would not have to return, for example. If the balance is still due, a man with a debt of 100,000 kuna at the end of the 10th year would not return 100,000 kuna but no more than 40,000 kuna. And you see, dear citizens, this is the final solution, the final solution. According to what kind of law enforcement, what kind of change this is, this is aspirin. The fundamental question is, do you fellow citizens want us to solve this issue? Our party's economic experts designed it. I'm bringing it to you. In the next election they won't solve this, it's safe, you get it, 20 times both SDP and HDZ have changed the Implementing Law none of it. If you want to get rid of this problem, support this proposal within 3 months of the election, there will no longer be a notion of blocked citizens in Croatia and we will deal with it. But we can't solve it alone. Now, one number of citizens is thinking, so listen, it's not going to go like this, so the others are sitting down drinking beer that day at home or going to the barbecue. Dear citizens, you will never solve your position like that. Let's get on our feet, wake up that spirit of change, we have a concrete solution, we have knowledge, we have a prescription. We need yours, so your support to get through this because we've had enough of this torture and get rid of more of this once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202355	Thank you very much. It seems to me that Honorable Representative Curray is looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202356	Yes, that's right, thank you, dear Vice President. I would like to ask you for a recess to consult the club on this proposed agenda point, mainly about these I will not say a challenge but an opportunity to examine whether it is possible at all to intervene in the transitional and final provisions regarding the functioning of this law. Namely, colleagues mentioned since pensions were paid on 8 April, to them I don't know what we did could not apply this law, but for pensions that will be in May, given that this law is in transitional and final provisions of the day, just a little bit. So the idea is that the law applies to pensions that will be paid in May for April, that's what I said. [[Come on, let's not get off the bench.]] So, let's see if it's possible to put in transition and final provisions by amendment, or already in agreement with the motionor, that very situation, that this applies mainly to HZMO, or here, is written in transitional and final provisions that the law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, means de facto if this is tomorrow only going to me in May 1st or 2nd of May. Is it possible to apply this to, whether we can legally intervene already in the law itself to apply it or only by instructing HZMO to repeat all accounting lists and send them to banks to apply this law. Is de facto pay will go at a time when it is strong, when the law will be in force. So if we can do something, we will consult and see if it is by direction or even by intervention in this law by amendment itself, especially in the transitional and final provisions, if any level of retroactiveness should be required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202357	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the respected representative Goran Aleksic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202358	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Bošnjakovic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will now round up what I was saying today. The law is basically good, there's no big grudges, that's what I asked 10 days ago to get rid of along with that law relating to monetary charges. It's funny that it wasn't those two laws at the same time, they were supposed to be on the agenda at the same time, and we wouldn't have the problem we have today. And the problem we have is called the application of the law to pensions because the pensions that will be paid in May are already accounted for and in these accounts is intended to be carried out. This exercise must not happen on the other hand because it will be against the law. Well, according to the fact that the execution must not happen, that it will be illegal, I have appealed to the Ministry to do everything in its power to prevent this performance because the accounts have already been made. The banks got everything they needed and what we're going to do now if the law doesn't apply the way it's supposed to. Accordingly, it is not enough for the law to be prepared and adopted as it is prepared. In law, it is also necessary to prepare infringements. So accordingly, I have prepared an amendment proposing that a legal person be punished by a fine of 100,000 to 500,000 kuna, and a responsible person in a legal person is 5,000 to 50,000 kuna if he does not comply with the law. Well, if it were such a punishment, I think whoever thinks it's not his responsibility to follow the law would take care of it. That's one thing. Another thing we haven't solved, and the last possible measure that must be taken in the Croatian Parliament is a measure concerning the moratorium on loans. I have also talked about it many times and I repeat and I will repeat as long as my term in the Croatian Parliament seems not to last much longer unless I get a new mandate, because we are going to go to elections soon, but in the few weeks that we are going to work I will repeat until this is resolved that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to prepare a law that will impose a mandatory moratorium on banks to collect annuity, I stress for non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation companies. Who are these invulnerable citizens? Well, that would be all the citizens who have reduced their income due to the circumstances in which we live and who are currently in no credit. Credit is incapacitated by any citizen who, under the terms of the Executive Act, does not correspond to the situation that he can, that part of the credit-related income can pay for that loan after paying for all those directors and everything else he has to pay for in his life. So any such temporary credit incapacitated citizen must be free from war payments while this crisis is going on without any interest and at no cost and I said there is certainly a danger and the government may be afraid that the banks will sue the Republic of Washington again on the basis of a bilateral agreement that Member States have among themselves, but we don't need to be afraid of it, so let them sue. I think the situation is completely justified and that citizens must be helped because at the end of the day the bank will not lose its profits but will postpone its profits. They just don't want this time when no one has any normal income, when a little who makes a little money, when little who gets it will just make it impossible for them to profit from those citizens and those companies that are currently inequitable. I repeat from those citizens and those companies that are currently inequitable. Not all of them. We here are probably all liquid and we will pay our dues. And I repeat what I have said many times, foreign-owned banks are thieves. Thieves are because they negotiated knowingly and deliberately unfair agreements with unfair interest, with an unfair currency even the EUR and kuna loans were negotiated with unfair interest, and through these unfair provisions they robbed Croatian citizens for 20 billion kuna. Let's not let these banks make money in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202359	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202360	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, well-respected citizens, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the end of this debate on moratorium on the ground essentially on this part of the performance that has not been made, which is being carried out at the FINA, this is an opposition, as well as the MOST, spoke and debated and suggested that this be done significantly before, that chaos is not created, that decisions and measures of the crown crisis are not adjusted exclusively for political purposes, but should take such measures for a year, no opportunities should be given now in the pre-election campaign that the government can manipulate at 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, because it is not correct. In my view, this measure, with a measure of moratorium on loans and interest rates, is one of the first measures. Unfortunately, this second measure of moratorium on loans and interest has not been passed. The government does not work in the interest, both colleagues and fellow MPs who do not support such a measure do not work in the interests of the people but work in the interest of the banking lobby, simply cannot be torn away by it, and at this point the assembly and parliamentary representatives in this crisis i.e. in these special circumstances, when the economy, economy, tourism is stopped, everything we have in the Republic of Croatia that at this moment banks should be the ones that we are going to force to postpone. Moratorium on interest i.e. loans and interest. At this point, I don't see a single reason why the minister doesn't make the decision in the government and it's not proposed. The proposal to the Croatian Parliament because HS would be responsible at that time as the legitimate representative body of the Croatian people. Moratorium is the only one on credit and interest with this decision we're now making. This proposal to change with, which we should have brought long ago, one of the key problems of solving this crisis and discharging our citizens and the pressure that will be ahead of them, which will cause what we have said, this crisis. In Croatia, the GDP of tourism was 20%, around 20% of GDP, and 6% of...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202361	A colleague of the Hill, a colleague of the Hill, can we let a colleague of the Bull speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202362	Hrelja, can I speak the Hrelja? If I can, if you won't, go ahead, he can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202363	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202364	Here, I would only continue this one and say that in this case, the moratorium on loans and interest that was the first decision of many countries, and so did Slovenia. And I don't understand why we don't have such a proposal and that kind of decision in front of us here in the council. I think that's a minimum of what we're trying to do. And don't just do everything for pre-election purposes, I know the choices are, I know the end of this, this assembly, this assembly, it's supposed to be three years ago, but it's better than ever. But at least let's stay remembered for doing something for the people, not being servants to the banks and bankers. We know that teleoperators earn the most in the Republic, and so do bankers, tens of billions of kuna, EUR, which is not everything, they earn in the Republic of Croatia annually. And that's a fact. If Slovenia could be a donor, if the Croatian people are equal within the EU, why can't it bring HS? Here, and our parliamentary representatives, certain of my colleagues, are asking the question. But what's the reason why we don't bring it? Why should banks that have been defiled, which have smudged Croatian citizens' money, annually 4 billion on fees and fees alone, 4 billion kunas a year. And what does moratorium mean to them that year? They didn't even give them anything, because they're full of money like the people's boat is allowed by the system, the system allowed them by the ministers, the governments allowed them to do it because you're afraid. They've done whatever they want and whatever they want in the Republic of Croatia, and at this point, bad policies have come to light. Unfortunately, the government is doing everything in an epidemiological crisis to applaud it, and in fact they are the culprits of what my Republic of Croatia has emptied. and demographic and certainly. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202365	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First, I want to thank everyone for the debate. As far as I can tell, there is actually one unequivocal support for this law as it is. There are other tones in the discussion of anything I want to say, there were conversations, is it too late, is it supposed to be one way or the other? I will say that the Croatian government has done a lot for this category of people who have been blocked, who have been completed, with recommendations long before this law we have stopped the executions both in courts and in public notebooks, so the whole series of shops has been designed to make it easier for people to do what we do. So this law is just, I'd say, point on and he's actually testifying and we all know that our performances are dispersed. On the one hand, they are made by employers, on the other hand by institutions, by courts, by public notebooks. So the execution is a very wide area, but in each segment I think we've taken these good steps, that in each segment we've responded to this difficult time ahead. And I think that this law that's been filed here that he's really harmonising and the interests of the credentials and the interests of the perpetrators or the debtors because he's not, the government doesn't just care about the interests of the perpetrators because this is a system where we have to take care of and the believer that he collects his claim because of the collection of his claim, the one who has a craft, who has a company, who has an OPG if someone didn't pay him something, he won't have money to pay his salary tomorrow, so the system has to work. Some countries have not made any decisions in this segment at all, but have said the system and the rule of law must function. So I think with this law, we really have completely arranged this system. I respect everyone's concerns, and I respect those debates that went beyond this, which have talked about how the system doesn't work, I would say the system works in the conditions in which we are. So, court proceedings are conducted, they're urgent, where we don't have conditions, where there's no transport, where there's no interstate transport, there's no parties and there's no way to run the system. But we have invested a great deal in electronic communication and this electronic communication allows the court to communicate. You can start a company today from your house, you don't have to come to court. You can submit proposals, you can complete correspondence with the court by electronic means, you don't have to go to court and lawyers use it, especially in commercial cases. You can request an excerpt from the commercial court, from the land-marked departments, you'll get them all by electronic means. It's all working today and it's showing up as good, but these are all the results of the government that we've done in the last few years on that electronic communication. And we're still preparing some of the measures that we're going to come here to offer them to relax the system a little bit more and lift it up a little bit. The communication between us and the stakeholders in the process is very intense, and we're on the line with the HOK where we talked about the deadlines, what would have come if we had now extended all these deadlines. We won, we'd only get one messy situation where there's nowhere to show power in any case, and there's not so much of this decision that went out so that they can't be covered. We already in the system have that legal remedy institute, a proposal to return to the previous state, which will allow if someone missed some deadline for this situation to return to him and, yes, to go again. So we're constantly in communication and we're constantly finding solutions. So far we have covered this in a good part of the recommendations that have proved useful, the courts apply them. There was also a speech, we were struck by an earthquake, and we were struck by an earthquake, but it's not true that we don't have a solution to that. We have a solution. I signed the decision the other day to assign, because we have arranged, independently of this, a building on Kennedy's square that has 5000 m2 and a commercial court we move there that already has elaborated electronic communication, part of the Zagreb County Court which is also that civil section, we move there, and part of the Zagreb County Court that refers to the criminal part, it goes to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb which did not suffer so in this earthquake. So we found that solution, which is not so easy. And like all of you who are on Zrinjevac, you're going through Zrinjevci, you see that there are skeletons to do, to edit, and that we want to get this thing back to function as soon as possible. As for these issues that were very clear, whether the law will apply that I guarantee that it will be applied, that the institutions will apply it, so every law must be applied, especially the institutions that are part of this country, so that the law will apply it, by some assumption that we can now predict, so tomorrow is a vote, I believe from these discussions that have been, that the law will be passed, I believe that the law will be immediately and published, so it would enter into the next day of the announcement, it would be according to some of our predictions then 1.5 and 1.5 should be applied. It's just that with a 1.5. it goes to a standstill and everybody has to stick to it. I'd still like to send a message here. This is a law that allows for a standstill, this is not a law that forgives or writes off debts. When that law stops then, that is when these procedures continue. All that occurs in this period, if any believer is damaged he will, of course, go with the proposal for a performance, he can do it in this period where we are, but then the execution will not be carried out. So my message, everyone who can meet their obligations, let them do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202367	Thank you, too. We've got a few replicas. She's her first colleague, Mrak-Taritash, here you go. After her, my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202368	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I've actually had the pleasure of having you in your final speech answer me to a five-minute speech, so that five-minute free speech where you had the chance... I was talking about this problem of the work of the courts that I got of course from the citizens and I used my five-minute speech to say, you had the chance and in the final answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder when the Kennedy trade court will start working? So there was an earthquake, but it wasn't the subject of why I decided on the replica. I decided on this replica for another reason. The reason is that, so you said that we really do have a number of laws and that's the fact that we have a series of laws and now we're going to get into this one trouble that the law is going to enter on May 1st or May 2nd really, and already some pensions are accounted for. Why would you come a week early? What prevented us from having responsibilities together when we were under the second law if we had this, it would be a set that made sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202369	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202370	Look, the 1.5th law has to be applied, when you're counting, I don't care, but if the law is published, so tomorrow, the 1.5th law has to be applied, and if you've been counting for 10 days or before, that part doesn't interest me. And let me answer you one more question, which is the question of convicts, prisoners and all that. You know, we have 3,500 prisoners in our prison system and there's been no breach of this virus or epidemic, you know, because we're worried about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202371	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202372	Mr. Minister, you can speak, and it's okay that the law will enter on May 1st and must apply, there is no dilemma. You have to respect institutions that operate under other laws, which have provided pension calculations to all business banks with already executed performances at the beginning of this week. You only have one option. Since the execution must transfer the asset to the beneficiary, if it is not transferred, you can take an additional period of 5 or 10 days to return those funds to the pensioners, where the performance is already accounted for from their pensions and it has been sent to the business banks. It's all been sent to disks, CDs or how, which communications they already have. That story is over. That story is over, and there's nothing else you can say, you can extend this deadline for the pensions. or return those funds if they are not transferred. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202373	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202374	The answer is the same, the 1.5th law must be applied, no matter what you've calculated, the 1.5th is the date when this law is applied under the conditions for tomorrow's vote at the Parliament, under the conditions for tomorrow to be published and published.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202375	Thank you, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202376	Here, that's exactly the dilemma we asked for a break, thank you, dear Minister. So, the only thing that will please me is that no one is ultimately completed and that people get their full pensions, and then we can say that the law has been applied. In what way, what procedure? Which one's the lex specialis referring to? I think this is it. This means that de facto it is important that people get their pensions fully and that this law applies to them. Whether they get the 1st or 7th, we should also be careful that people who count their incomes and who have to live on something don't get in a position to go from month to month, that something isn't late. But basically if it's all about people getting full pensions and that's where there's no compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202377	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202378	We need to know one more thing. And this pay performance, and salaries and pensions are protected because we know that in the Executive Law we have that provision that says that both salaries and pensions are protected at 3/4 of the average salary that today in Croatia is about 6300. So 3/4, with, I say, not more than 2/3 of the average salary. So these are protected categories, it doesn't go into service and it's possible to isolate to protected accounts, as it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202379	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202380	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Retired people are one of the most common, i.e. I dare say, most of them, the most honest and often pay their pensions as soon as they get their pension, and they expected that pension on May 1st and on the 1st working day after the holiday. The question is whether everyone will get that pension and whether it will be reduced by performances because we hear that there are technical problems. You didn't give a concrete answer, you just specify that a full pension must be paid without a reduction and I expect it to really be so, but it won't be possible to pay off on May 2nd because of these circumstances most of them stated. And you said nicely that this law only stops the exercise, stops the obligation, and it will continue to flow after the crisis has passed. Our proposal and I from the HSS were to extend it until the end of this year because it is realistic that this crisis will continue until the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202381	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202382	Look, we can extend 3 and 3+3 and 12, but the debts are going to have to be regulated in some way. So, I'm in my final, and I said I'm calling on all those who can, to fulfill their obligations, to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202383	Thank you. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate. I'm also closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202384	The following statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 933, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, the SDP Representatives Club, the representative Goran Alexic, MP Miro Bulj, the Live Wall Representatives Club and we change Croatia. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, I would like to ask the motionary's representative to show himself about the amendments submitted, the Honorable State Secretary Josip Salapic. Amendment number one, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202385	Amendment number one is not accepted. The proposed addition of paragraph 2 does not require that, during the period of special circumstances, the courts receive proposals for the implementation resulting from the wording of paragraph 1. It is not in accordance with the objective of the Article. 3. of this Act, which is to fully stop the proceedings in all the executive procedures mentioned in paragraph 1, except for the procedures for the settlement of the demand for the legal restraint of the child, other claims when the application is made for the settlement of future tasks by maturity, claims on the basis of the file of unpaid wages, wages or severance payments, in the case of insurance measures from the KZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202386	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm afraid you're wrong, and this approach will create serious problems in the system of implementing the Republic of Croatia. It is good that the proposings will be able to deliver proposals, which is good, but the problem is that they will not carry out executive actions under these proposals. As I noted yesterday during the debate, not all of them are perpetrators or are not all debtors of the person to whom protection should be provided. You and I both know that there are a large number of debtors who actually abuse the circumstances that can be extended in Croatia as a litigation procedure so as not to settle debts. By such a provision as you have proposed, courts will not be able to carry out any of those actions that should be aimed at protecting the credentials, to protect the perpetrators such as the recording of the primary order or other circumstances that would especially prevent those debtors who are not in good faith from alienating their property and thus prevent the execution. We absolutely support the intensities not to implement the performances, but this amendment that we have proposed goes exactly for it, not to implement the tasks. But that the courts are doing very well those actions that precede the execution itself, and there are many of them. What will be the consequence of the ministry's position, or the government of the Republic of Croatia? That when this moratorium passes, after six months. The courts buried thousands and thousands of cases in which they were not allowed to carry out their activities and then suddenly they will have to be carried out in haste. We're just going to create backlogs, which is why, of course, we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202388	Thank you. The second amendment of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202389	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Such legal option should exist because it is impossible to predict in advance all those procedures in which urgent action is necessary despite specific circumstances since the urgency of a particular procedure depends on the circumstances of each individual case which will assess the specific cases itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202390	Thank you. Proposer's statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202391	Thank you, Chairman. He's been living the wall since the beginning of his work, dealing with the rights of the performers and the protection of those who have done it themselves. In this law, you put in one article the possibility for judges to continue to carry out the executive procedure and all they need to do is to make the decision in the executive procedure only a particular explanation. Since Croatia has the largest number of judges in Europe by the number of inhabitants, but it also has the largest number of corrupt criminals, and if we take into account that any such judge, a corrupt judge, will try to carry out at least one executive procedure with such an explanation and can write anything, you did not at all specify what is to be written, we come up with that there will also be a lot of executive procedures during this crisis. And this is the procedure where people will be taken away from the most and the real estate and we all heard and we all know about the executive mafia that has been harassing and burning in Croatia, in which all institutions are connected and are all located, from the judge to the perpetrators themselves and to the public notebooks, and employees who are employed in their departments who have access to land books. We're afraid that you left this on purpose, we're afraid that the executions will continue to take place and to the public they'll look like the mission is gone. I am sorry that you rejected this amendment even if it was expected that you would reject it as you refuse and all of our amendments and therefore ask for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202392	Thank you, third amendment, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202393	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202394	It's being accepted, it's becoming a part of it. Fourth Amendment, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202395	The amendment is not accepted. The objective of the provisions of Art. The 6th is that, as bankruptcy reasons, they are suspended temporarily, the bankruptcy reasons that occurred during the duration of the special circumstances. The adoption of the proposed amendment in relation to paragraph 1 would deviate from the desired legal consequences of this law. The amendment referred to in paragraph 2 would make it impossible for the creditor and the FINA to submit exceptional proposals for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure to protect the interests and safety of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. Those exceptions are necessary in order to protect the interest in the justification of which the court decides in a special case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202396	Declaration by the amendment promoter, Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, therefore, the primary direction of this amendment is to point out the difference between the submission of a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure and the decision to open a bankruptcy procedure. I'm afraid you're in the law from the wrong angle of view, and you've determined when to be allowed, or when not to be proud of the request to open the bankruptcy proceedings, not in what circumstances the court will open the bankruptcy proceedings. We believe that the provisions of this law should primarily be directed to the court because it is the court that will assess whether there are circumstances for opening bankruptcy proceedings or not. The other thing is, at least it's unclear to me, and I believe I'm not the only one who's unclear when he's been reading whether these reasons that you've now stated are that protecting people's health, etc. refers only to the situation where the opening of a bankruptcy procedure requires the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia or where the opening of a bankruptcy procedure requires and the debtor? In this context, the courts will find themselves in a particularly difficult situation and evaluate what you meant when you wrote such a vague decision. And another problem. It's not just the protection of the credentials, it's also the protection of the debtors. In many circumstances, it is through bankruptcy that we allow the debtor to continue his business with a limited settlement of debts. Therefore, insolvency proceedings should not be treated in the same way as those carried out. It is necessary to leave far greater discretion in the decision-making of the court, but it should also be taken into account that there is a particular need to protect the believer here. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202398	Thank you. The next fifth amendment is the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202399	The amendment is not accepted. The situation of special circumstances within the meaning of this law extends throughout the law so that there is no different interpretation of the duration of the special circumstances, within the meaning of this law and of other laws whose duration is bound to the duration of the special circumstances prescribed by those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202400	...an affidavit, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. Neither after yesterday's debate nor after your current presentation have you answered the key question. Does it apply only to the proceedings covered by this law, that is, only to the procedures of enforcement pending or bankruptcy proceedings pending, or to the stalemate of legal tightening interest and to all religious debtors of relations in the Republic of Croatia that have reached maturity? It's completely unclear from the provisions of the law. That's why we asked it to move within the meaning of this law because, in that case, the law already has a limited period of time, it's prescribed in the later provisions. So the law has a limited duration, we know exactly how long this law will last, and if it is clearly prescribed without words within the meaning of this law, then there will be these legally tight interest rates, or their stalemate for all religious debt relations. Like this, I'm afraid it only applies to executive and bankruptcy proceedings. And from the presentation of neither the Minister yesterday nor you today, I don't know what your intensity was. And now keep an eye on the situation, if other cases because this is unclearly going to make a request not to run legally tight interest over a certain period of time and our courts will have to decide in thousands of cases. That is probably why we will also have a viewable dispute before the Supreme Court, and you have all been able to resolve a clearer provision in the law. I'd even be happier if you'd come here and said no, legal tight interest stops only on these relationships, but you haven't done that, and now it's completely unclear. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202402	Thank you. Sixth Amendment, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202403	The amendment is not accepted. The duration of the special circumstances within the meaning of this law has been established from the date of entry into force of the law until the end of the period of three months following its entry into force, with the possibility that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will extend the duration for another three months. The proposed length of the special circumstances is not justified by the current situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202404	Statement by the applicant, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202405	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, I have proposed an extension of the duration of this law, i.e. The extension of the suspension of the exercise for the reason that this economic crisis of the epidemic will last much longer than is provided for by this law, and this Parliament needs to donate, would not then give the government the right for the next three months, but as a Parliament for a year to suspend the loan, suspend this exercise. I think at this point when there's a crisis, that you must finally make the decision that the trial was about to be the first, and that's the decision. We have a proposal, here for Assembly MPs moratorium on loans and interest. However, with all that the opposition emphasizes to you, that we have accepted all your proposals, all the measures, you have made them late because the opposition has given you amendments, you have no hearing. Why do you not have the strength and why do you work exclusively in the interest of those who are the most polluted in the Republic of Croatia, of the Croatian people, these are banks? Why are you guarding the banks? Moratorium on loans and interest for a year would breathe through Croatia. Huge profits of tens of billions of kuna, banks in the Republic of Croatia have been given a year. And the minimum thing to do as a first measure is moratorium on loans. And once again, I call upon you to end the term of office, obviously, give us this proposal to the parliamentary representatives. Today the MOST proposal is identical to the moratorium on loans and interest in the government, I expect you to accept it, if you do not accept it, give your proposal because it is the tribal to be the first measure, moratorium to loans and banks, but you obviously work in the interests of the people, no, you work in the interests of the banks, not the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202406	The seventh amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202407	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202408	It's being accepted, it's becoming a part of it. The eighth amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202409	The amendment is not accepted. The prescribing of infringements is excessively since the employer or the other payer of the permanent cash is obliged to receive in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 4 of this law... to comply with this law from the entry into force of the law which is tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202410	Here you are, the applicant of the amendment, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. What is the purpose of punishment, in general, in the entire criminal justice system? Among other things, to force individuals to behave in accordance with the law, that's why we prescribe penalties. We prescribe penalties to threaten someone if their behavior does not comply with the law that something bad will happen to them. In this particular case proposed by the SDP, it will be fined by both the employer, the legal person or the HZMO and the responsible person who did not comply with the law. I absolutely agree with you and it is the norm of every regulated legal order that the legal provisions must be respected and it stands without further delay. However, sanctions exist to improve compliance with these standards or to increase the percentage of situations in which norms will be respected. I am deeply convinced that 95% of employers, if not 99%, will respect what you have prescribed by law. Of course none of them will want to damage their workers when in those situations it does not go in their pockets or out of their pockets. They do not care whose account this money will end, however, should be held accountable to be in the pocket of their worker because this worker will be more satisfied if he gets his full salary because he will be able to live more normally, because he will be able to meet his basic living needs which, with those protected incomes, is extremely difficult to meet. But for those 1% who care, who will deafen such sanctions is necessary because this way we will ensure that they act in accordance with the law, not that because of their sloppyness our citizen and our citizens remain without their income. That is why, of course, we are asking for a vote on these illegal provisions that are missing under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202412	Thank you. The ninth amendment, MP Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202413	We do not accept the amendment for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202414	The applicant for the amendment, please, declare the honourable representative, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202415	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Salapic. The sanctions are common in all laws where there are some implementing provisions that must be implemented, so we do not know why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not accepted my amendment. I even expected you to be able to correct the level of punishment, so you would suggest that my amendment be amended and that you would accept it in such a way, which would be perfectly normal and meaningful. Unfortunately, there will be a certain situation that some employer will not comply with the law and since there is no sanction on what to do? If there was a sanction, there might not be a single employer who would not comply with the law because it would cost him a lot. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202416	Thank you. The SDP representative club proposes that the Council draw a conclusion which reads as follows: "It undertakes the Ministry of Justice to propose within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this conclusion to the HS a proposal for a law which will regulate the termination of the legal and judicial deadlines in criminal, criminal, litigation and non-partisan proceedings and administrative disputes during the duration of the special circumstances resulting from the outbreak of the disease covid-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in part of the protection of the rights of the parties in those proceedings." I would like the representative of the Ministry of the Honorable State Secretary, Josip Salapic, to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202417	The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice does not accept the relevant conclusion for several reasons. We do not consider that there is a legitimate need at this time because there has been no disturbance of the procedural deadlines at the proposed conclusion. Also, if there has been a possible injury, there is an extraordinary legal remedy, which is a return to the past condition. It is our assessment that, at this point, everyone is able to handle the process, and in particular by creating conditions for e-communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202418	...the obvious, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202419	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So as I was saying yesterday during the debate, there are serious problems in the Croatian judiciary that are not related to the coronary virus situation, they have only made the coronary virus worse. In this context, we felt that it was necessary for the Republic of Croatia to take intervention measures not only in executive and bankruptcy procedures but also in others, administrative, litigation, etc. which would first and foremost refer to the problem of time-limits. Only the comparisons for such a measure were adopted by the European Court of Justice, and adopted by Slovenia and Austria, who have a slightly better situation in the judiciary in the case of Slovenia, and in the case of Austria, a far better situation in the judiciary than in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike these countries, we have another problem, which is the earthquake that hit Zagreb. Yesterday, the minister spoke of, for example, the remote establishment of companies, but the fact is that colleagues are waiting until a month for the court register to register a particular company. It's a similar situation in land-book disputes. You are right when you say there is an extraordinary legal remedy to return to the previous situation, but you and I know that returning to the previous situation means, the first submission of requests by the party, and after that, carrying out a case of a kind of mini lawsuit in an appropriate court procedure. So to the judiciary, which has previously been burdened with problems, which have been stuck with cases because the debates have not been held, which have not been decided in these two months, we will also add the need to carry out additional special procedures in order to return to the previous situation. That's wrong. It could have been avoided by one law, unfortunately we didn't do it and, of course, we from the SDP's Representatives Club insist on adopting this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202420	Thank you. We now declare a break until 12:00 when the vote on the debated agendas is scheduled. The sitting is the same as the last time, so all the MPs are sitting in the rooms where they sat and voted last time. Thank you. It's 09.57 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202421	Final proposal of the Intervention Act in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 933. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, the SDP Representatives Club, the representative Goran Alexic, MP Miro Bulj, the Live Wall Representatives Club and we change Croatia. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So, we're starting with an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives, and the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. Who's in favour of an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives that the government doesn't accept? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 41 for, 2 abstentions, 74 against. The second amendment of the Living Wall Club and Change Croatia, the Government does not accept it either, so let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? This amendment I already see has not received the required number of votes, 26 for, 1 abstention and 82 against. The third amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. The fourth amendment, SDP advocates' club, the government does not accept it, and we have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Who's abstention and who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 47 for, 76 against. The fifth amendment is once again the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment has not received the required number of votes, and the result is, well, 42 for, 76 against. The sixth amendment of MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 37 for, 77 against. The seventh amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted, it becomes an integral part of the law and the eighth re-emergence of SDP representatives, the government does not accept, so please vote. Who's up for that amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against the amendment? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 42 for, 76 against. And the last amendment, MP Goran Aleksic, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 42 for, 77 against, so we go to the vote, the final draft law on intervention measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the course of the special circumstances. Please vote, who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Here is the result, I find that, unanimously, 123 votes, the Law on Intervention Measures has been passed in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the duration of the special circumstances. The SDP representative club proposes that the Council draw a conclusion which reads: It undertakes the Ministry of Justice to propose within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this conclusion to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law governing the termination of the legal and judicial deadlines in criminal, criminal, non-partisan and non-partisan proceedings and administrative disputes during the course of the special circumstances resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 disease caused by SARS CoV 2 virus in the protection of workers' rights in those proceedings." I am voting on this proposal to conclude the SDP Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? What happened? What? ... The server's only with us, the others aren't concerned. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now, nothing, so just let us know by hand, so we've got a review of the situation from the small town hall, from the ban Jelačić, and we've got the electronics here, so you just add up what you're sending. 23 for the rest? Five for and 18 against. So you add it up and put, well, a total of 91 means, did you add it all up now? What is it, tell me, how much is it for? 5, so 36 is in, 5 abstentions and 73 against, right? Okay. Then I find that the proposal for a conclusion did not get the required number of votes, so please if the server does not work, that the service that will fix it will come to you and until then, report only to the central table results here that it enters them into... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202422	We continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: The final draft law on amendments and the addition of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 934.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 2(1)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, whichever is the case. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. We have the Minister of Health with us, Mr. Willy Beros, and I urge him to give an additional explanation. Here you go, Mr. Beosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202423	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable MPs. Allow me briefly to present the draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. This amendment of the law brings about changes in the section relating to the exercise of the right to the supplementary health insurance policy and to the burden of the state budget on the basis of income censorship. In accordance with the amendments to the provisions of Art. 14.b The Act, the funds for the premium of the supplementary health insurance carried out by the HZZO, shall be secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for insured persons whose total income in the previous calendar year is shown per family member at a monthly rate not exceeding 1563.23 kn in place of the current 1516.32 kn and for single insurance companies, if their income census in the previous calendar year is not greater than 2000 kn in place of the previous 1930.39 kn. It is now prescribed that this amount does not exceed 45.59% of the budget base, or for single insurance companies whose income censorship is not greater than 58.31% of the budget base. Since the amount of the income census has not been changed since 2008 and has been exclusively linked to the budgetary base in order to protect the most sensitive groups of insurance undertakings, this legislative proposal regulates that insured persons are entitled to pay the premium of supplementary health insurance from the State budget in such a way that indexation is carried out each year, i.e. that the income census is aligned with changes in the average consumer price index and changes in the average gross salary without changes in the regulations. So, for example. in the event that insurance companies grow pension incomes, say 50,00 kn per month, they will no longer lose their right to an additional health insurance policy, as annual indexation or harmonisation will take place. The decision to coordinate the income census according to the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law shall be adopted by the Administrative Council of the HZZO on the basis of data from the State Statistics Office no later than 30 November of the current year for the following year. In order to implement the proposed law, it is necessary to provide an additional amount of about 160 million kuna from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and for an additional 200 000 insurance companies that will exercise the right to additional health insurance on the burden of the State budget on the basis of the income census. The estimated amount of funding shall be provided in the national budget for each year starting from 2020. The reasons for the adoption of an emergency law are that, in order to be able to determine more appropriate income censorship faster as a criterion for paying the supplementary health insurance premium from the State budget, funds for certain categories of insured persons are provided. Here, I can finally tell the respected MPs and respected MPs to invite you to accept this legislative proposal and adopt it after the debate because its adoption is in the interest of all of us, and particularly the most sensitive groups of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202424	Thank you, too. On your show we have six replicas, the first colleague, Žagar, followed by his colleague Zekanovic, here's a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202425	Dear Minister, we have perceived you as a person who is extremely professional and that is, the whole public agrees that your role in the headquarters is such. However, I now invite you, we will give you arguments today, believe me, arguments that will show that these 200,000 insurance companies are not the correct number, I don't know where he came from because Minister Aladrovic, who gave you that number, how did you get to him? That's not the correct number. If you want to listen to arguments, and please listen, then you'll see that this number is far less. That's what I'm gonna do today... mathematically show you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you're a man who respects science, who respects exact, exact indicators, you'll adopt that. And the other thing, these censorships are too small, they're too little to lift, believe me they don't affect by and according to normal distribution, Gauss's division, the amount of pensions, they don't affect the most important areas of these, these, these insurance companies, and so please accept our arguments and things will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202426	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202427	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for your objection. So I'll tell you that after a detailed analysis of the financial ministry, the Ministry of Labour, the National Council for Retired People was included, there was an approximation of this number. Furthermore, it sought to find an optimum between the protection of the necessary and the possibilities in the state budget, and therefore this change was shown in this way. So that's the result of some thinking that represents an optimum at this point. Of course it would be better if he were bigger, but then we would overload the state budget which at this point, especially at this point is not possible, so here we found some sort of an optimal environment. I thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202428	Thank you. After him, Zekanovic, a fellow member of the Bulj, is next, please welcome counterpart Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202429	Your Honor, I'm glad you're here. I'm going to ask one question that is related to one topic, which is this health crisis, not directly to this bill that I think is good. I asked you last time, so you answered me like that from a cannon... Here, now I ask you again, you have a chance to explain it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] People die of coronary virus or coronary virus, explain to us, you can and later, I'll ask you that one more time. In America, I'm sorry, in Italy the other day, an agent at the Italian parliament, Vittorio Sgarbi, claimed that, quite frankly, in Italy of 25,000 people who died from, of, of, of, the coronaryvirus, that 96.3% said, died with a coronary virus. Here, give us a little explanation of the Croatian data "with" and "from" and what does that mean? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202430	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202431	Here, I'll answer you right now so it doesn't turn out like the last time I didn't want to. So, I'll do it again. We have two categories of people, those who are older people and chronic patients. These people have their own comorbidities. If they experience an infection with the coronary virus, it is a direct cause of worsening of their health condition. They also die because if they hadn't received that infection, they wouldn't have died despite their chronic diseases that contributed to the final exidus, and they say to those persons, we say they died with the "with" coronaryvirus. On the other hand, those who are better in health, who are younger, who are infected and die from it, are said to have explicitly died “from” the coronary virus. However, even for those first ones who said they were dying with “s” that there were no coronary viruses they would still live with their chronic diseases and would naturally die at one point. So, additionally, that coronary virus was a trigger and the cause of their death, that's already said and here's no problem and further explain to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202432	Thank you. Next is counterpart Miro Bulj, followed by colleague Mrak-Taritash, here is colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202433	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you said you were optimalizing in the best possible way not to damage the budget, the policy funds, I think you'd still be able to talk about it. But in the context of this story too, I'd ask you a question, this crown crisis is all about us, you're here. You've made a statement that in a nursing home, a home for the elderly and powerless, no one's guilty, so far we have 14 dead people in a nursing home alone, that's a huge number of deaths in the Republic of Croatia. So is that possible? If Skaričić said, which is the director, that for 10 days the protégés had a temperature, where medical staff said they had no equipment or was secured... No one's to blame? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You say it was the virus. So my Dalmatia will be blocked because of these pests from Split-Dalmatia County owned by Split-Dalmatia County [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I expect you to speak responsibly [[Intruder: Thank you.]] who's to blame. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202434	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Here you go, Mr. Berosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202435	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for that question. Well, we've talked about it a lot. So, the World Health Department said that over 50% of the deaths in Europe came from coronary viruses right out of these populations. I said, we fought at the beginning of this crisis that the virus didn't enter the health system even though it was a pre-lost battle. We did well, however, because we quickly solved all those incidents by doing the epidemiological service. It was the same situation in the home systems for the elderly. We fought until the virus entered. It's absolutely impossible to prevent the virus from entering. We can count all those measures that have been taken until that date and until the time of entry of the virus, which is a ban on users' exits, a ban on their families, a ban on supplying food and supplies besides that, disinfection of the premises themselves, organisation of employees in different shifts, so a series of elements have been made, including the delivery of protective equipment. equipment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, Here, these are the elements that were made, and how to make the virus not enter the nursing home. [[Thank you. Thank you.]] No one's found the answer to that question yet. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Beroš.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202436	That's it. Mr. Berosh. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202437	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, so we had certain laws here that were exclusively related to the coronary virus situation, this is not that kind of law. This is one law that is a pre-election law that tries to regulate and do other things. In an explanation, so in that material that's explained, we're talking about 200 thousand people and we're talking about 160 million. Now, in this context, this calculation is like when you go in a little bit, it's done quite unusually, or you obviously don't really read the right data. But I want to compare that to another law that was in the debate last week, which we suggested that people in self-insulation be at that time, have full compensation, not that fee for 2 weeks out of 2100 kuna, and the government refused with one single argument, that we did not predict exactly where the funds would come from and we did not predict the funds. I'm afraid this number could have been 196 131 and instead of 160 million could have been some other number. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202438	Thank you. Here's your answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202439	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. So, what to say other than to repeat that, after extensive analysis of these institutions, there was an indicative number. Of course, he's not exact, and we'll only know him once he starts using this measure. However, it is certain that these additions and amendments to the law will receive certain financial results or a burden on the state budget, however, in order to protect the most sensitive we are prepared to do so and at this point we are doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202440	Thank you, too. The next one's a colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202441	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'm just asking you to give me one piece of information. Do you know that in the procedure in HS it is also, the bill no. 643 on the same subject of voluntary health insurance, and what is your position under that law? In fact, you're in front of the government, you're a co-signator in front of the government back then as an assistant health minister in the government's opinion. And the opinion said that since October last year, for the implementation of the law, which spoke about the same problem, no funds have been reserved in the state budget, neither in the 2020 projections nor in the 2021 projections. As far as I remember the budget, no funds are reserved for this either in the state budget or in the '20s. Not for '21, But this is where the funds will be found. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202442	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202443	Thank you very much. As I said in the analysis and the above issues, the Ministry of Finance participated and they were familiar with the same and committed to providing these funds in the 2020 budget projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202444	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Vlaovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202445	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This law corrects a certain injustice against those who, for example, grew a pension of 50, 60 kuna, that they were left without additional health insurance and had to be done long ago. That's one thing. And secondly, we think that the censorships you have calculated and income per citizen should be higher per individual, should not be below the poverty threshold, which is at Eurostat 2300 and some kuna days and whether it was considered and whether it can be done, I think that would be correct. And in our last debate, we suggested that everything about protective equipment and masks be produced in Croatia because, there are entrepreneurs, you said that a meeting with the Ministry of Economy and interested entrepreneurs was organised, which is what happened, and we see in the media that protection equipment is being purchased from some companies that were founded 1 day ago, they have no employees, at prices far greater than market prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202446	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202447	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So several different options were analysed. As we said, this one is optimal, so everything that would go beyond this limit that is a certain censorship would be burdened by a more significant budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is not acceptable at the moment. We tried here to find an optimal model that, I said, would satisfy that balance between protecting citizens who, I agree, could have happened earlier, but there was no burden on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202448	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Curaj. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202449	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, first of all, we are raising the social standard, especially as far as health care is concerned, clearly and loudly, so we are reducing the costs of citizens who have been paying them now 150, 170, or up to 200 thousand, hopefully as few as possible, which would mean that they have better censorships of income, but the truth is what is especially true now in all these crises, people are getting paid, even left without receiving, and it will cost something to be provided in the budget. I am generally interested in one subject that I would like to start having a serious conversation with, and that is the sustainability of the health system that has been asked us anyway, and now it is quite another. That's where we need to see the situation where the contributions don't pay off, the state's making sense of it, and how now that we're going to put this increased pressure on how we're going to do it. I think it's time for reform now if it's never been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202450	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202451	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I could agree with your findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202452	Thank you. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. So we start by discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 934. First on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Ivan Celic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The existing Voluntary Health Insurance Act regulates the types, conditions and manner of implementation of voluntary health insurance. Types of voluntary health insurance are additional, additional and private health insurance. Additional and additional health insurance are contracted as long-term insurance, at least for a year and are subject to the Life Insurance Act. As a type of DPE, the insured persons shall be provided with health care costs covered by mandatory health insurance. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 14.b The current DPE Act is legally effected in the payment of the DDO premium from State budget funds if the total income in the previous calendar year is shown to them per family member per month not more than 45.59% of the income census or if the monthly income in the previous calendar year is not greater than 58.31% of the budget base. In absolute figures this amounted to 1,516 kuna for a member of the joint household, and 1.939 kuna for a single man. My colleague, Mrak Taritash, referred here to the recent proposal of the Voice on the Law on the CoE, and she said this was another of the pre-election laws. I wouldn't agree with that. So, in December, the Croatian Retired Matica and the Croatian Retired Union proposed and made a kind of appeal for these changes, and then Prime Minister Plenkovic said that thanks to pension reform, the part of the citizens goes above the threshold that is important to them for free, and then announced that the threshold would rise and that there would be a permanent mechanism that would monitor and coordinate these circumstances, so that there would be no absurd situations for the pension to rise and it would have to be paid additionally and that at the end there would be less funds. I would also mention here that except for these persons who are today in the first place in accordance with Article. 14.b of this law includes insured persons for human body donors for the purpose of treatment, also voluntary donors of blood if more than 35 giving in men or more than 25 giving in women, which in some way encourages transplant medicine and those items is the place in this Law on DHO, not mandatory health insurance where this would then come from HZZO sickness benefits. The pensioners, especially those with low socioeconomic status, are one of the vulnerabilities of the population for a number of reasons, and once they lose their right to free DZO, they cannot afford to pay the policy, this increases the likelihood that they will go to a doctor more rarely and this increases the incidence of complications of chronic health conditions and, of course, the question of newly detected malignancies. We can also take into account the fact that, according to the European Commission's report, Croatia at 8th place in the EU at the highest mortality rate possible to avoid timely medical interventions. For this reason, it is necessary to take care of low-retirement pensioners to get as much coverage as possible of the costs of treatment with timely diagnosis and adequate treatment of the earliest part of the elderly population. In view of the fact that, according to Mother of Retirement and Trade Unions, the amount of income censorship has not been changed since 2004, these amendments to the law regulate that the insured persons exercise the right to pay the DPO premium from the state budget in a way that indexes each year or that the income censorship is aligned with changes in the average consumer price index and changes in the average gross salary. As this old income censorship was in effect for years, there were fewer people who had free health insurance, so in 2018, according to data from the pension website.hr 743.387 citizens were released from the DZ, and last year that number was reduced by almost 80,000 and paid from the budget by 666,7777 policies. As for pensioners, it is estimated that since 2012, only about 250,000 of them have lost their right to free extra insurance and most often through pension adjustments. And as the health minister mentioned for any additional measures, additional money is needed, an additional 160 million kuna from the state budget should be provided for the implementation of the proposed legislative changes. There have been speeches during the discussion of amendments and the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act and of some other potential beneficiaries of the rights coming from the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, but at this point it is not possible. The HDZ Representatives Club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202454	Thank you. Before the next debate, we have a one-off report. Here is colleague Miranda Mrsic in front of the Democratic and HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're looking for a break in the name of the HSS Club and the Democrats to warn of a nonsensist over this law. Namely, this law came from the agreement of ruling NGOs, or the HDZ agreement with the pension council, and at the same time there is a law of colleagues from HSU which we all supported, in which this matter is very clearly being solved, and this is something that should not be in HS to agree with non-governmental associations assume in one parliamentary procedure, the stalking procedure and what the government has also made very clear that this is a very clear sign that it goes to the elections in the 7th month because this is a pure pirate trick. The pensioners will get little or no, and as far as HDZ is concerned, I believe the pensioners will not fall for that trick that HDZ is doing right now. We are warning of a very negative parliamentary thing that has happened here in the past six months. There are laws in the procedure that are identical, which the government has rejected at its session with its opinion that there is not enough money to cover the cost of this bill, and now suddenly the government is coming to the proposal that has agreed with NGOs, and not with parliamentary parties, and if nothing else is good for them to come to this session today, come to both of the laws, so let's discuss it. The government obviously wants to buy pensioners with 40 or 60,00 kn and very cheaply wants to get their votes, but it won't work out for you because the corona profiteers don't make sense to do it. You can tell by this you're going that way to become the real crown profiteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202456	Thank you. So, I'm taking a break until 14 o'clock and 50 minutes. Thank you. MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.51 HOURS]] Next is counterpart Miro Bulj, a club representing the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202458	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, here are the amendments and additions to health insurance. In his explanation here, the minister presented data to raise the price for a joint household from 1.516 to 1.563 and for individuals to 1,939 to 2,000 kuna, meaning 47 for households, 67 kuna for individuals. Is it the most optimistic or not that this line of poverty, would it be the tribal to think, would the tribal here make much better this one expose that exact figure? My colleagues before me asked if it was just 200,000 you said that the insurance company would fall to talk about it, but I know that the time before the election is so that these topics will be opened, but what goes in favor of our citizens, even if the minimum triba accepts. Is this the most optimistic, this is not a fact on the line of poverty that is 2,400 kuna, so I expect that we will, so 2,475, so I expect to discuss it once and for all. As soon as possible. This assembly meeting is coming to an end. But I'd just say it's about to end, so we don't have much to smart about and philosophize anymore. Now that the crown is a crisis, since you ministers are the ones who have made decisions, I have asked, and it's basically about this, and we as parliamentary deputies expect you from headquarters always so that we can take advantage of you and ask you, that's what I asked you at the beginning through the replica and ask again. The home for the elderly and the powerless in Split, the director when it happened, we have 14 dead, when it happened, you were calling for a wake in the bunker, don't get naked, get him in 95, protect our elders, that's what people were holding. However, when the coronary virus appeared then Director Skaric said that ten days of protégés had a temperature and now it was a little escalating, we called and now what happened happened and we see what happened, but no one is responsible. I know that the home for the elderly and the powerless and you are not directly responsible, it would also be the Tribal to answer the Ministry of Social Minister, who should come and tell the families of the dead who is responsible after this statement by Director Škaričić, who is responsible? Most favoured, I understand that politics affects certain things, but a man was appointed when he lost his election in Omis, a man was appointed after only a loss of choice that had absolutely nothing to do with that job. And now, of course, he's being held in his head by Sanader and Boban. It's being guarded by the Ministers. I don't know why the county works like that. It's just that these county stands are to be abolished because everything that we, which you've invited to the bunker, to be, to stick to social and physical distance, every day you've listed how many are dead, how many are infected, how much is, when most of it's in the part where you said you're defending yourself. And no one is responsible after the confession of Skaric. Sanader wasn't responsible for setting him up, Mayor Boban wasn't responsible every day for coming into the uniform of civil protection, who folk heroes were raising presses as they controlled everyone in the older homes. Not only did the crisis happen, but later it came to Makarska, as they did. Well, in institutions, I.E. in Juraj Bonachi where the most severe patients with autism are older, where simply due to the lack of people inside the nursing home i.e. at home for older and powerless in Split, these people were transferred, nurses and technicians were medically transferred to a home for the elderly and powerless. At the end of 20 and something difficult people who are.../incomprehensible/... disabled, who suffer in Juraj Bonachi from autism are only with them for 7 days continuously doing 1 nurse, nurse and 1 technician. So that's the resulting tow of a huge one, my parents called me who they are, whose members are in those homes, that's who they are. in Juraj Bonachi, both older and younger who had problems precisely because of this because the frame that was in those other institutions was transferred to other institutions. So the responsibility of one's minister must be. Whether or not the minister comes out, whether Ante Sanader ordered her to be the chief political secretary and right hand of Andrej Plenkovic not to say that about the case where the most endangered die every day, it seems to me to be 3 today. Yes, the report I didn't follow, not the triba on the dead, I mean, but just someone has to be responsible for it. Can't be responsible for that virus, the virus caused everything we have. And while the whole of Dalmatia, Croatia means stick to measure me now because of this director's move, if it's appointed politically, but I understand it politically, but di is a profession, I mean it has to be a man of profession. There's a man in there with no one left to protect him. He's protected like the eyes in his head. I would ask you once again which opportunity you did not answer me, you responded in a way that was responsible for telling your position after a statement by Škaricic, who is the director of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split that 10 days the protégés had a temperature and that only after 10 days had responded. We have statements from people in the old age. People, medical personnel who said they asked for a test, and if the testing hadn't been done, the e-mails came out. So we have countless circumstances that are unresolved. I, as a parliamentary representative from that area, as a county councilman and president of the club, which is the second political option in force, from that end of mine, simply have to ask you that, it's my duty. I know that you are now popular, that people appreciate you, that measures have been taken that people have accepted and accepted. Maybe it's not the best thing I'm asking you to do, and I'm asking you to be responsible, but somebody stands to do it and ask you. To be responsible, you are publicly telling the truth who is responsible for the events in the home for the elderly and the powerless in Split that have led us to 14 deaths so far? I'd be done with this. As far as the law itself is concerned, I said in the beginning that we expect it to be better explained. Any shift shouldn't be destructive and shouldn't work against people. If these are the exact figures that we're going to be dealing with 200,000 people, you didn't give the right argument, you didn't give us a good presentation. I think the triba much more arguments and the triba come up, simply to this line of poverty. I hope that there will be strength and that these people will protect themselves in that, our most endangered in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202459	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Next is a colleague of Snježana Sabolek in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia. Here you go, fellow Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202460	... So, two. After the government promised pensioners that it would address the problem of income censorship for a free supplemental health insurance policy, the government would, of course, do so as part of its pre-election campaign. [[Speaker not enabled]] Although it should have been done a long time ago, and if we look only a little bit into the past it is quite clear that this will only return to the safety net of free extra insurance due to the increase in censorship that happened two years ago. What did that mean then for our pensioners, and what does it mean now? The problem was updated through increased pension growth through coordination, so pensioners themselves warned that 40,00 kn often increased pensions exceeded the censorship and received a new monthly cost of 70,00 kn for the policy. You gave them 50, and you paid $70,00, so the pension increase meant a loss for them. Now, before the elections, you're taking the opportunity to make it right. While the government was still defending its pension reform, it was especially boasting that, with the regular pension adjustment of an additional 3.13%, it increased the income of 253,000 pensioners who were given the lowest pension. But this additional increase from an average of 50 kunas to many of the pensioners actually meant that they had less money. With the pension increase, they crossed the income line guaranteeing them free extra insurance. Now you're taking them back to the way they were. So you pay back what you owe them long ago, and you run it as a pre-election campaign. Aren't you ashamed to manipulate people who need to be given more than your crumbs in the fall of life? If it wasn't sad, we'd be laughing at your fancy jokes because this is nothing more than cheating on a troubled people anyway. What else are you gentlemen prepared for from the government? You were not ashamed to mention the victims of violence and the mother whom you would give them for free of charge, but you eventually gave up. Why? Because you don't think you owe them anything. The bill itself has not passed the public consultation procedure. The only consultation was carried out in the prior evaluation form for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act between 28 February and 14 March. Thus, the income price for free supplementary health insurance, although the problem has already been known for 2 years, has entered into a set of COVID-19 legal changes with the help of the economy and citizens who are now being brought in by emergency procedure without public involvement in the work. Again, why are we solving a long-known problem just before the election? 2.g. has come from your promise that you will solve the pensioners' problem of income censorship for a free supplemental health insurance policy. Today under the pandemic of Coronavirus you use the situation to give the pensioners crumbs, it is a degutant attitude towards pensioners and poor citizens. The only right thing at this point would be to increase the censorship to the level of the Croatian poverty line of 2,485.00 kn. I can't help but mention how some pensioners have burned themselves, say, through receiving a resurrection or a Christmas certificate, and this can continue in the future. Let's just say that a single pensioner whose pension is just below the censorship has the right to free extra insurance. And if he's applying for a resurrection or a Christmas certificate, those, for example, 200,00 kn can transfer them across the censorship line, and the public security will kick them out of the system. We remind you that the price of the policy is 70,00 kn per month, which means that this pensioner will cost an additional health if he wants to use it 840,00 kn per year because of the 200,00 kn resurrection. If you want to help the pensioners, then you need to give those resurrections as a gift, not to put it in a profitcensus and thus manipulate people again. As far as pensioners are concerned, it is estimated to be only 2012. About 250,000 of them lost their right to free extra insurance, mostly through pension coordination. So, under the crown company, you run your pre-election gatherings and you promise what you've taken away long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202461	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next is counterpart Silvano Hrelja in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202462	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I have to introduce myself to you since you're the new minister. I've been dealing with this problem since 2013. And if it hadn't been for HSU today, we probably wouldn't have had a public insurance company and a deal with the HZZO director at the time. Today, we have a public insurance company who's about to worry about us being exactly 2 million and almost 300 thousand citizens, which is why those who pay 70 kuna a month for themselves, which is what the state pays for. It is my intention to speak exclusively of the law on what the law says and what our law has been talking about since May 2019 and received a negative assessment of the government in October of last year. For the first time, I said that censors should coordinate in September 2018, and Minister Pavic then promised to solve this problem. Now let's go in turn, the government law is offered to increase for a family member of 47 kuna, for a single 61 kuna, and that after 16 years does not change the censorship. It can cover up to 15,000 people a year, pensioners' associations estimate 12, I give you 15,000 people. The government says and lies that it will be 200,000 people, the government says it needs 160 million kunas and lies because if it is 15,000, then it is no more than 13 million kunas to be provided somewhere. The law of HSU in the procedure of the one I mentioned to you under regular number requires an increase per member of the family by 314 kuna or to 1.830 kuna, for a single man 400 to 2,430 kuna after 16 years of rest, it can cover 180,000 people per year, for which 150 million from the budget is required. The Government pointed out negatively that the money is not foreseen either in the 2019 budget or in the 2020 and 2021 projections, and now suddenly it does. Well, I guess the budget is state-owned, so I guess we have to decide on budget rebalancing, and it's not HDZ's private treasury, even though it seems too often. So let's go in turn, our HSU law has raised 50,000 signatures of support and support has been signed by 58 MPs in HS of which 15 MPs representing the parliamentary majority. However, you did not have the courtesy of putting him in parallel with this procedure to discuss substance content, intentions, possibilities. No, we're discussing this by emergency procedure, okay. Then let's take the line that's a lie. It's a lie that the law is passed because of the covida-19 to protect people's lives and health. There are no reviews for which participation is paid, no hospital stay other than urgency, the health system has stopped and is planned to run only in the second phase of rebate after hairdressing salons. Is that clear to you all? Therefore, there are no increased costs for the Joes. The lie is that the law will cover 200,000 citizens. Look, if it were true, Minister, it means that in three months, people will be dying of poverty on the street, I think as long as I'm alive that I won't allow it, and I hope you won't let it. Therefore, this is not the way to let laws go in the process. It is a lie that the funds are secured or the funds in the budget will be provided. No kuna is secured, it can't be allocated without a budget. You can from the funds reserve if you have them. It is a lie that there are justifiable reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure do not exist because the promises you mentioned and Mr. Celic mentioned the promises to the retirement associations were made from December of last year. Therefore, there was plenty of time for a regular procedure to be done. It is a lie that this law strengthens the sustainability of the social security system of nearly 200,000 pensioners. Look out, you take those below 2,000, and from 2,000 to the poverty line 2,485 there are another 200,000 pensioners you don't even touch. Therefore, they are all above this noble government censorship. It is a lie that after this harmonisation, there will be no more harmonisations in which the relationship sets prices and pensions or prices and pensions for last year's year's year. It's a lie that the census hasn't changed since 2008 not since 2004. The lie is that the government's good intentions are behind this law. It is true that the law is passed because his Majesty Andrej Plenkovic and his coffee agreed with the top self-proclaimed representatives of pensioners who previously appointed administrative councils, bodies and committees. They need photography and an article, the government's vision of co-operation and concern. It is true that citizens are mostly offered crumbs from the table and it is shown as a charity of 47 and 61 kuna after 16 years of census rest. It is true that this law should be, and is not one of the cornerstones of the fight against poverty in the post of availability of healthcare for elderly, poor, sick, and this is written in the 2014-2020 Strategy for Combating Poverty, which this government has committed to implement. It is true that this is a circumvention of parliamentary procedure and the demeaning of other proposings and hunting in a dim one. The truth is that this problem will be dealt with by a new government under impossible conditions. It is true that all the forces want to be shown concern for our elders who are under this ruthless propaganda trapped in fear in their homes. The truth is that the law is aimed at buying cheap retirement votes, first at impoverishing them, and then buy them on a discount. It is true that in addition to the retirement votes at the downturn, parliamentary elections will take place in July. It is true that our 2019 HSU law, which requires an increase of 314, or 400 kuna, after a full 16-year period, is a fair law that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve, for which they have given support with more than 50,000 signatures of support that the government ignores. Signatures have been deposited at the Croatian Parliament. It is true that this offer demeans and humiliates citizens, their free will for solidarity among generations. It's true that this is the worst law I've ever seen in HS after 17 years was sent by the government, either in reason, or not technically. The truth is that the government's intentions are very transparent, already seen, but also that the pensioners are wise and cautious enough and will not fall for promises. I knew it was my duty all these years to ask for pensioners. That's why I'm here. I've been doing this for 17 years, and I know how hard it is. I know how it never does. There are always other priorities. How come all of a sudden they find funds overnight? What kind of motivation is that? What are these goals? A benevolence? No, with 47 and 61 kuna. No, the needs of our citizens are much greater. Poverty is much bigger than you're aware of. Ignoring the signatures of both young and old, 50,000 says something that is very bad for this society. And what's very wrong with that? Ignoring solidarity among generations. It's the strongest tissue that can stand anything. And the coronarys and the war and the hunger. That's because our law was signed in November last year with the elderly, the young, the workers, all generations and those who were healthy and could get a shelf for 28 or 38 kn. So, I am sorry that I have to congratulate all our elders and young people in this way with this law and with this poor solution the International Day of Intergenerational Solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202463	Thank you. I would also like a small intervention after you, my colleague Hrelja, in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202464	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister Berosch. We have to talk about the coronary virus here because when you're in our assembly, and here you are on your way out, or aren't you? Are you still here with us? It's just that this subject is inevitable. Here, you answered me, in the replica of that very important question, I'm going to repeat it now and explain it a little bit and update it, so I'd like you to take the word here and explain a little bit more. These are some things that interest citizens, Croats and Croats, and it is important to repeat them many times because there are many approaches throughout the world and in the scientific public to what I asked you, and you answered, and what is it about people dying when it comes to the crown crisis? Is coronaryvirus or coronaryvirus infection the primary reason or is something else. You said it was about people who had a significant comorbidity and then when it came to infection, actually the infection conditioned this comorbidity, if they had some chronic disease, or we could talk about multi, about multibial, multimorbity, actually, is it? So some kind of... And then when the coronary virus comes, then he conditiones that these people die. And here's one key question, how many, you haven't answered me since the 70 deaths in Croatia, died because the coronaryvirus conditioned it, and how many died because they were chronic patients at a late age, that's what we need to know. Is it just two people died of coronaryvirus, three, five, and these other means they had a significant comorbidity, that's just what needs to be said. I will not challenge your measures although, to me, it is too much control and these passes, it bothers everyone, and I believe that limiting freedom, especially religious freedoms that are limited in Croatia, is one precedent terrible, has conditioned that we have brought down the epidemic to zero, means that we do not have it almost. But here we have to ask a question, which would have been if we had a different approach, or how many people really... Come on, let's talk about it. I wish we had, let's have a public debate and maybe somewhere in front of HRT cameras or somewhere else where HDZ members usually come in, you're a HDZ member, where there's no opposition, where there's no kind of critical debate or critical debate. I know that you and your colleague Dulibic, that you are 100% like-minded and when in the Italian Parliament, e.g. Vittorio Sgarbi asked a question in a rather argumentative way, that how many of the 25 thousand victims in Italy died of, and how few Italians then wondered and had one, really debate in the public space critical and which is fine. And we can't talk about it. And this debate that I'm talking about right now won't be in the media. You know why they won't be in the media? Because that doesn't suit you or Secretary of State Dulibic, and of course not the entire Staff or Plenkovic. That he's even starting to question himself and talk about this in an argument. Let's see, I'd really like to hear, how many of those 70 people died directly from the coronary virus, how many were chronically ill, and how many were healthy, so they died from it? Let's hear that number. But here, I'm glad we've been able to figure out how many, 15 people in Croatia today. However, what happens to this coronary crisis, and it is about your portfolio, your sector is something that will cause many more human victims, much greater health problems, and that is that many people, because of a very great fear, have avoided visiting their doctor, a specialist, which did not go to regular controls, which oncological patients did not go to chemotherapy. I personally know some of them, and I have a family of people who work in the health system and who, you know, that the number and diagnosed cancers have decreased significantly, not more healthy than simply there are no diagnostics, that all possible chronic patients have neglected everything because of fear, because of the blockages, because they've been home for two months now. And it's going to happen, and you know that at one point, in a period of time after this in a few years, we're going to have a significant increase in mortality because people haven't treated themselves in time. And now if we think about it, okay, we saved people's lives in Croatia because we had strict quarantines, strict protection measures, social distances, all great, okay. But we're going to have dozens, and I'm going to dare say hundreds of times more human casualties because people haven't been treated through the health system to be treated if there wasn't a root crisis. Now I can't even offer you a solution here, but I can deal with this problem that's bare as a representative in HS. And I know you do, but here you are, right now tonight or tomorrow morning, making some measures to encourage people, because I personally have family and wider, etc. Many chronic patients who are simply two months because of fear, death fear in quarantine, and will die, and State Secretary Dujmic will die because they have not treated themselves or went to therapy during this period. And then we wonder why all this? So does this actually make any sense, how much we got, how much we lost? This question is not only asked by Hrvoje Zekanovic, perhaps I'm the only one here at HS, and I'm not saying that she, okay, I apologize, but this question is being raised in all parliaments of all democratic countries of Western civilizations, I will say, in China, not of course, in China no, but in Italy, France, Spain is being asked. And they all question how many more people will die in perspective because people have not been treated and are in a health care system in a way that they would have been if it hadn't been for these quarantine measures. It's like I don't know, to protect you from getting wet and not getting wet, and the flood came and took your house away. So I wouldn't be burdening you here with that economic part and the repercussions that we're going to have on the health system because of the economic crisis that's just coming to us, and there's going to be a disaster in all sectors, and even in health care, but it's only going to stick to this medical one. And find measures to get rid of what can be remedied tomorrow. And that finally people get rid of fear because what you know as a doctor better than me and anxiety fear can also cause many and acute and chronic diseases that can later cause some chronic diseases that can cause a famous comorbidity that can die from. Here I thought I made myself clear. I'd like you to look back at this one more time and tell me in particular how many people died in Croatia, plus, minus, it doesn't matter, you tell me directly from the crown of the virus two, two, two, no matter how many people died in Croatia, and I'd like to hear it here if I did. In fact, I can demand it as a parliamentary representative because it is me, and you should say it, even though you don't have to say it at the end. But I'll wait for you, so feel free to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202465	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Miranda Mrsic in front of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go, colleague Miranda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today we have one crown law, we have already seen them many times, but so far, the Coronal Laws have gone towards improving things in Croatia or covering those decisions of the National Staff that were illegal. And today's law is a pure law that goes after the purchase of pensioners with 47 and 61 kuna, respectively. So that's the result of this law. And my colleague Hrelja made a bill last May, and the government rejected it with the lack of enough money, and now suddenly we find that money in the budget. And I wonder, where's your money? Because just today, Minister Maric publicly said that budget projections are not so good and that we will be very surprised when we see what it looks like. If the normal projection situation were to reach the budget, there would be about 80% of the projected funds, and apparently the budget projection is much worse. And then I wonder, and where are we going to find this money if we've told our colleagues to Hrelja and all of us who signed that bill that there's no money. Obviously, he wants to bribe the pensioners to vote for HDZ, which means that the elections are very close to us and that HDZ wants to profit from this successful, at least for now, solved health care part of the coronary epidemic, but this is a question of whether the economic part of that epidemic will be resolved. In this reasoning of the law, there are other things missing from the number of 700,000 people who have been released from supplementary insurance by different categories. However, here I would point out that there is a need to see how many more insurance companies are released under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, so that is where all those with disabilities are released 30% and more, who were therefore Croatian defenders, so here is our colleague Ines Strenja who is freed from participation because she is a Croatian defender. So there's a lot of things to clean up before that, so it could go with a law like this. The pensioners' demands have been on the table for many years now, and this is now a very clear purchase of votes that HDZ knows, buys the defenders' votes, so now it's also trying to buy the votes of the pensioners. In the pre-election time that includes the worst economic crisis ahead of us in Croatia, it will certainly be worse than that crisis in 2009, and the government is sending this bill suddenly by emergency procedure, and why, it is clear. A campaign for parliamentary elections begins, and this is a shameful and inadmissible behaviour of the government, which via the country's most vulnerable group just before the elections, is licked by pensioners and pensioners. This is the corona of profit-making law and the HDZ campaign will be the crown of profit-making and that is what you can see. Not only do they now fill their pockets in this murky work but they clearly want to convince citizens that they are the best solution for Croatia and for Croatian citizens but they will not pass. When we talk about censorships, they make sense but they make sense if they stick above the poverty threshold. There's something here that's far below the poverty threshold and there's only one step of HDZ that's-that's licking the pensioners. I will repeat, the government wants to buy the voice of the pensioners in the upcoming parliamentary elections for only 47 and 61, respectively, that is the result of this law. If parliamentary democracy in this House were right and we had real parliamentaryism here, then today we would have the law of our colleagues and the law of the government together and we would discuss both of them and in this way evaluate what is better for the pensioners. Certainly, what the government is proposing is not what the pensioners were looking for and what Hrelja's colleague suggested, it's the consequence of his long-standing experience in this area, and that's something to offer the pensioners so that we can discuss here in the Parliament and see who the freaks, who both of whom are. However, it is clear that the government technology is quite different and that HDZ wants to resolve the matter this way to tell citizens in the election campaign that, you see, we have solved this long-standing problem. When are we going to the election? And we'll probably go to the elections very quickly, and there won't be a limiting factor in the coronary crisis or epidemic because we were the country that had the strictest measures to limit the movement, and that's why we got good results, we have a lower mortality rate to 100,000 inhabitants, I think we're the second from the back, behind Hungary, that, on the other hand, we're headed one way that's also a little weird, and that means that we're the first country in Europe at the speed of firing measures because everywhere these measures are planned for 10 to 14 days because the incubation of the virus is 14 days, that then this first release of measures see what its effect is. Comrade Capak and HZJZ teams have obviously succumbed to politics, and this headquarters is no longer a health center but is a political headquarters and de facto advocating the HDZ PR instead of fighting for the health of citizens, at this point this headquarters is fighting for HDZ health and that HDZ wins the elections. And what we will see when we go to the elections, at the moment when counterpart Maric, Minister Maric comes to the Parliament with a budget rebalance. Because no budget rebalances in eight months. We'll run out of money for wages, pensions, and everything else and everybody knows it. And that's what this government is postponing instead of having already rebalanced the budget, and then these 200 million that are being handled here in this law could see where these funds were taken from and how they were allocated. Apparently, the government is in a hurry, that it wants this part to end as soon as possible, and that the elections can show that there it is, the government has resolved it. As a society and citizens, we should be aware of all that they are doing in the last 15 days, and they will probably continue to preserve themselves and ensure another term of rule, and that is the way to look. And remember, the preservation of HDZ in power only brings us back and deepens this new crisis in which Croatia is already 2nd month. He's finding it. They didn't know how to do it in 2009 and 2010, when we were hit by that crisis, but apparently they don't know how to do it either now when we're facing an economic crisis that's going to be much worse than it was in 2009, but they're acting like a classic corona of profiteers wanting everything they've done to prevent large victims because of the coronary infection with the virus, it's attached to itself and to its merits, but the merits of this are citizens of the Republic who acted the way they were supposed to act and that's so that at that time we've completely stopped any social or physical convergence, and that's the effect that stands. The most responsible for this are citizens and therefore, if nothing else, citizens need and have, they must have the right answers to the right question and here the fundamental question is what we will now do after we give in to the measures, which is what we are expected to do, and what this government is expecting instead, we will get parliamentary elections, but I am sure that in these parliamentary elections, and also those pensioners who are now trying to buy votes for 47 and 61,00 kn will think well when they give their vote in July of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202467	Thank you. Prior to continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives of counterparts Hrvoja Zekanovic asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202468	Dear Vice President, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. The minister's gone, and here I asked him a minute ago to answer a question he actually owes me as a minister, and the secretary of state, and here's the secretary of state, as far as I know, it's not a health profession, so he'll be a little harder to answer, but maybe he's headed a little bit like all of us, and I'm calling him to answer me one more time, the question was very exact. How many people died, and if it hadn't, had there been no significant comorbidity in this period? Simple number, we just want to know. And maybe another question that would be nice to hear from the Ministry of Health. How many people, how many funerals, have died since the start of the crown crisis in the Republic of Croatia? That account of mine, as far as I know, if 50 thousand people died a year, 7-8 thousand people died, and 70 people died "from" or "with" the coronaryvirus or every hundred or so, right, man. But here's what I'd like to hear from you as a representative of the Ministry of Health that, if you give me, or to the Croatian citizens I represent here, you say from the coronaryvirus of people who didn't have chronic diseases, a significant co-morbidity died two, three, five, one or no people, why don't you say it, so we want to hear it, and the others have significant co-morbidities to hear it, we haven't heard that number. And I'm going to repeat what I just said. I'm sorry that the minister left the assembly that you as State Secretary and Minister are finally beginning to think about all those victims who are going to die because they were not in the health care system because of this corona crisis and that they are encouraged to go into one normal treatment as soon as possible because people are terrified, they are in great fear. I think this fear that's been done may be even greater damage than it threatened by itself, by the crown itself... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202469	Thank you. Although you haven't said why you're looking for a break, I'm giving you a break until 15 o'clock and 40 minutes that he's been commenting on. It's 3:36 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.40 HOURS]] In front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives of counterparts Rechim Varda. Here's a colleague of Varda's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202471	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. It would be good for him to be a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202472	It's okay, but, I mean, you can wait a minute, here I am, wait a minute. Here, here, you can continue, a representative of the government is just arriving. All right, take it easy. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202473	And now unrelated to the subject itself,... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, come on, fellow MP. Keep your comments to yourself. I'm still a lot older than you, so it would be your turn, secondly, I have to say that here it's the custom of looking, that the topics are being discussed all beyond the subject, then for not wasting time, I didn't lift a three-time bat with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, alluding to the Vice President of the Parliament who allowed to speak exclusively out of subject. But good. But let me say this. I heard today, even with the paper, I didn't see if it was for 12 years, 14 years, a colleague of the Hrelja says for 16 years, he hasn't changed his censorship. So now I wonder what we've been doing for 16 years? Could we have changed that censorship for 16 years? And why are we changing it now? So we're changing it because by increasing, only retirement, and the law isn't just talking about pensions, the law, this amendment and the addition of the law is about all categories that have the right to free health insurance. But the pensioners were a cause. Because an increase in pensions by 20, 30, 60 kuna, since the price has not changed for 16 years, have lost the right to free health insurance and have had to pay a policy of 70 kuna. That's the reason. And why we haven't changed that, we all have to ask ourselves, and me, part of it. Yeah, we say, self-invited union representatives. I'm sorry, it's a bit of a difficult qualification. Either they're not legally elected, so they're illegally representing these largest two retirement organizations or it's something else. I personally signed the HSU proposal to change the censorship. Personally, in which the component was the borders of poverty. However, as the proposal failed to pass in the government, I offered my services as a parliamentary representative at the request of pensioners' associations. Let's look for a solution. Let's look for a possible solution. And most importantly, let's change, not only the censorship, but let's fight that censorship, whatever it is, that it changes continuously, with, when it comes to pensioners with an increase in pensions. And that's the whole context in which this was done. Why now? Well, these conversations, as far as I'm concerned, last somewhere from the 11th, 12th month of last year. Why now? 'Cause there's a new group of pensioners coming in who's gonna lose their right to free health insurance. A new group. We've already kicked one out of it. This bill of law regulates it. We're bringing them back and a new group isn't going to get into it. Secondly, we say coronaryvirus, we say pre-election HDZ activity, I don't care. Whether it's a pre-election joke or not. It is important for me to change the censorship and to change the way the censors are calculated in the future and that a group of pensioners with an increase in pensions of 10 kuna will not lose the right to voluntary health insurance, nothing more. The explanation of the bill in my humble opinion stands, no matter what we think. It says that at this point there are justifiable reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. So, people, as already retired and other categories are losing their right to free supplementary health insurance. They lose right over 20 kunas, 10 kunas. They're losing right. And on the other hand, pensioners who lose that right, we cut their income, don't go to a doctor because they don't pay extra health insurance. They're disrupting their health. That's what we're gonna have problems with. That's where we'll have problems if we don't pass this law. I wrote a normal debate, but under the impression of the debate that they were not actually I didn't read from there. So, let me finish. The Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law, will vote for its adoption and that is all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202474	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, just one small intervention. Next up is my colleague Stephen Curaj. It's a HNS rep club. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202475	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, the HNS Club will, of course, support. I think that this raises the level of social standards, a number of people will be involved in their own reliefs, they will use services, and they no longer have to pay, as the materials here say up to 200,000 or cca 200,000 insurance companies, for this they should only provide for funding of just over 150 and 160 million kunas, respectively, when calculated and ultimately people will have less costs for health care. It's the taste of the whole law. And most importantly, this will be determined from now on by indexation given so far has been on a budget basis, and here this income censorship will be coordinated every calendar year with changes in the average consumer price index and changes in average gross wages, so one fairer system. And I don't think it's a big deal. What I have certainly put in the replica as a question and what is being imposed is, in fact, the sustainability of the health system itself, which, regardless of before this crisis and this pressure that we will see just how much it will leave, is now practically unsustainable, was unsustainable. So it's a health system for us, but it's not just a question for us, it's a question of the world in a European way in which every country agrees. It has already been quite unsustainable for us, especially when we look at what debts are towards the entire debt of the health system, while, for example, the Health Insurance Office is doing business with profits and we have a monopoly over the payment of health insurance. There is no private provider of basic health insurance services. Is this the direction in which we need ic, ate what we have and increased even within the year we increased the tax reforms of higher payments in the health system from 15 to 16.5% on the salary, it was like a drop of water in the sea, nothing was noticed, nor did it happen, nor did I know any particular solution. So this is the time as for everything else, as we are experiencing this digital transformation under some pressure, and not because we have been smart and systematicly prepared, so I believe that we will also have to seriously consider this one reform of the health system is this kind of pressure, especially in the situation now that we release people and pay, when the state covers these costs and directly the HZZO provide those funds where there are no more payments being made, is there more or less all the companies in the problems they have shown have been released from that payment, some will have and will have permanent, some will only have delays and reprogramming. And I think that we will find ourselves under a great deal of questioning how we are going to operate the healthcare system that is now more than ever needed, where health care professionals are now under we can't even imagine what kind of work, system, shifts from morning to night, etc. And all that still under the care of their own health and the health of their families where they're exposed that they can bring that virus home to their children and that's a lot of pressure, and they're doing their job honestly. So, the sustainability issue of this system and we are doing all these measures just to make this system sustainable, so that we can take care of all those when needed and even intensive or already increased health care in due time and with equal care. And that's why we introduced all these measures so that we wouldn't overload this fragile health system and make all the preparations, and that's exactly why it made sense. Of course, this will take as everyone says and that is why it is now time for us to approach one reform and to see how we will function and as a state in these special conditions, especially in the long term as a health system. Now in these measures, when people lose their wages, lose their jobs, they get cut, we have to, and we want to say hello, because this has a social character, I'm increasing social censorship, and really 2,000 kunas per 1,000, as far as 1,939 per single man is going on here practically, 1,563 per member of the family means four-member family if there are 6,000 kunas, and now you can see how someone can do with 6,000 kunas. People live and eat a lot less of the four-member family, and don't give God about some loans, and I don't know what, it's a cruel reality. We need to worry about the sustainability of the system and watch how we will fund it tomorrow and how this system will be as self-sustainable as possible and maintain some level of social standard. And that's why I'm saying maybe the solution is to think about private basic insurance, because, of course, why would you, of course, let some slip and any other way to reduce the burden on the economy again, and to increase the quality of the service of those who want to pay for it because today we all pay for healthcare, and those who afford each other go private and then ask why they pay. And on the other hand, those who don't have money are doomed to have a year of waiting for a list and are practically jeopardizing their lives, and that's something we have to seriously deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202476	Thank you, too. Anka Dark Tarritash in front of the GLASs Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202477	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This afternoon, one rainy afternoon in the city of Zagreb we are discussing amending and supplementing the Law on Joe. And when you get a bill like this, you read and say okay, so here's what we do a little bit, we help something, something's going to be done, it's like that at first sight. And then when you throw the second third, then you come up with a few things and a few topics that open up to you. The first topic that opens is that we now have laws that come in the emergency procedure and have connections with the coronary virus, it's a great unknown and a man when faced with some unknown, then out of fear really reacts in an unusual way and in Zagreb it's still potent and an earthquake, so in Zagreb it's all twice as strong, this law has nothing to do with the coronary virus directly, it might have indirectly, if it hadn't been, HDZ would have decided to go to elections a little later, and then it wouldn't have packed this law right away and put it in the procedure, it might have arrived there sometime in the 6th, 7th, May. Or in the fall. The Corona virus pushed him out of the drawer a little bit, said out, and told my people, we're going to the election in the summer, let's get something out, something we have to say. And here, of course, which has decided to address the most, I am now going back to another topic, which is, we have a report by the Ombudsman we are discussing, one of the big topics in this debate is what is the state of the pensioners in Croatia and that for years we have seen through the report that pensioners are the population that has the most damage there is, or they are in that group of poverty and that the pensioners are in that state. Therefore, if you put someone with 47 kn and 61 in a more favourable position, it means a lot to them, the one who gets it, it means to him and no matter how few, but at the level of perception, look at the good HDZ, he gave it to us. Maybe there was a little bit of a blame on the budget, so they're too few, but it's a message to them, look at that good HDZ that gives you something. So, it definitely has to do with, the corona made us go sooner, or rather made you go ahead with this law than you would, you didn't do it in a way that you did a little bit of calculations because it calculated 200 000, that it was the truth of the calculations of 200,000 people, then it was a serious calculation but it wasn't true or it wasn't seen in that way, but at the level of perception, here, while we were tasked with bringing a strategy against poverty, the strategy didn't even bring "s." It didn't even deal with it, through that strategy one of these elements was supposed to be defined there. We come to another aspect that we can look at through this law, which is the relationship between the ruling and the opposition. The opposition indeed in the situation when the coronary virus was at your door, when an epidemic was declared, or the pandemic accepted and said ok, we have decisions, we will stick to those decisions. Of course, all of us who are responsible to ourselves then are responsible and others, stick to these decisions, do not question them, because if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had not followed them, the results would not be like this, and thanks to the decisions that were clearly heard by experts and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but these decisions that we have, as a relief, you really have a lot of questions from citizens who are in public traffic to the fact that in some situations the number of citizens according to squares or cubics is shown about some in some other way and in some third ways, but that is not the subject of this law, but it is good to mention and to say it is good to say because there we are opening up the topic of health. So, the crown is on its way, and all the health workers on the front line have done a great job, but there are two other things that we need to talk about clearly, we are clearly asking ourselves. During that time the facility, hospitals, health homes were in a cold drive. They only did what was necessary and what needed to be done. During that time, a new hospital in Dubrava did not operate, during which time people did not go to chemotherapy, during which time they did not undergo specialist examinations at other hospitals and during which time they were not diagnosed with other diseases. It will be interesting to see if the story with the crown is in principle a story of what we will have in a year in terms of one health cut in Croatia and what this burden will be for both the budget and everything else. And we have one more thing. At this time the hospitals were working in the cold drive, it would be interesting to see how cold the hospital's drive is. As much as it's actually a budget for the cold drive of hospitals, as much as it was, we'll see the difference, we'll see what was going on, it'll be interesting to see, and so we should do some lessons. But we absolutely don't like that option that history is a teacher of life, absolutely a lesson we don't learn, and we absolutely always need to be the ones who'll start to feel some things on our own backs. And then I have to name it and say what I said and in the replica of the minister. So let's be perfectly clear, this isn't about a law that has to do with the coronary virus, I joked and through sarcasm showed that it actually has, this is the pre-election law of the HDZ, through this law he decided to buy some votes from those most faithful voters who always go to elections, regardless of what the situation is and therefore this law came here. It is also clear in this law that the following is that about 200,000 people who will be covered and that 160 million kunas need to be provided for it. In order to say the other law that came as a proposal for HSU all the other way, that there was no money in the budget, that it was one of the reasons why it couldn't go, that there was no money in the budget for 2021, or 2022. What did the crown change? She may have changed the way Minister Maric thought about it, so when he responded when it was by HSU or Mr Hrelja, then there was no money, and now there is money from the rulings. I'm afraid it's actually hypocritical, because when our laws that the opposition is going to propose something and you don't have anything to object to and say anything then you say you haven't done that third set of arguments or the way you're going to finance yourself. So when we went last week we were also one afternoon in the debate about the law that we suggested that people who were in self-insulation at that time have full compensation, then it was the only explanation that we hadn't predicted which items this would be from. Well, neither are you, nor do you, but you've been paid by a minister who said it's all right. And I come in the end to actually mention this relationship of ruling and opposition, when the opposition said ok, the coronary virus is we have a headquarters we'll support all this together then it was one constructive opposition. And when the opposition says my people are rotten in the state of Denmark, my people don't seem to be right, so give me some lessons from this situation, then it's opposition, then they're populists, then they're saying without any argument. It's not like that. Good solutions would have been if you had taken the elements of the law that you had already been in the process of Mr. Hrelja, that you had sat down and talked and that there was a law that would have really made it possible for you to do what you wanted with this law. This law is populism, this law is not done properly, this law is actually trying to buy another vote for HDZ with that amount of 47 and 61 kuna respectively in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202478	And now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202479	When it's your turn as the last of the talking clubs, then you're in a rather awkward situation that many colleagues before you have said the things you wanted to say. But that's the nature of parliamentary work, especially when you speak on behalf of your side, on behalf of your political option, and when you need to make a statement about an act that has this political option that you simply have to repeat yourself. And in the case of this law, repetition begins with the the thesis with which counterpart Mrak Taritash finished, which is that this bill has nothing to do with the crown. We didn't start discussing this on March 11th, it seems to me that the 11th of March is an epidemic, we've talked about this a long time ago. Among other things, colleagues from HSU and with our support, this bill, far more elaborate, far better, far more appropriate situation, has long been referred to in the procedure. However, nothing was done on this issue. And why is it working now? I find that difficult to answer in any other way than the way my predecessors have spoken about it, which is that they see very clearly the causal link between the choices that come and the adoption of such a law. Don't get me wrong, I don't think this law is going the wrong way, though, I think this law is going in the right direction, but once it's taken a step it just stopped and stayed where it is. And that right direction never happened. What's the problem? It's very simple, censorous and what you're proposing, so it's nothing, it's just a fig leaf for years and years of inaction. In that context, and as the predecessors of my club said, we cannot support such a bill. The colleagues of HSU are essentially in the spirit and content of that law that we have all proposed together and that we are all representing together, whether the amendment is proposed, whether this law should be adopted. And if the Government accepts that amendment, we will vote in favour of the law because then it will make sense. However, without accepting this amendment, you just throw crumbs in front of people, hoping that these people will catch up and that you will draw votes for the elections in a way. If you don't accept the amendment, so we simply won't be able to vote for this bill, we won't be able to. However, since this is one of the few opportunities to discuss Joe, let me point out another problem which unfortunately is not addressed by this law and which unfortunately because of the nature of the Rules of Procedure we cannot change by amendment, but the Government would if it wanted to do something about it could. I was hoping to have a chance to tell the new minister because the problem I think I'm talking about is a great deal of his predecessor's child, and it's about art. 12th century 2. The DPE Act which stipulates that insurance undertakings or institutions are obliged to enter into an insurance contract with each insured person of the institution. What does that mean? That means you get Joe's shelf per article. 1st century 2. The Joe Act must be concluded with any person who has compulsory health insurance, must, it is written in the law. However, is this respected in practice? No, I don't. In practice, this provision is violated and it is broken in two ways. One, especially insidious, fortunately as I am familiar with a small number of insurance companies, is that those who used the insurance policy very much, translated into Croatian, for those who are sick, the policy is cancelled and not extended. Another way, much more often, is to prescribe that insurance will not be concluded with persons over 65 years of age. I have pointed out this repeatedly to the former Minister of Health, several times during the debate in parliament, and for the sake of this, there remains a trail of several times through parliamentary issues, but it is probably because the Minister of Health, the former Minister of Health, had direct links and direct interests in certain private insurance companies, and for this anyway, if the minister is not here, Mr. Secretary of State, I hope that you will tell him, this problem really needs to be solved. It's a health insurance problem, supplementary health insurance. For what? So respected colleagues and colleagues, because in this way direct damage is created to Croatian health insurance and the Health Insurance Office in such a way that private insurance companies buy young and healthy insurance companies, they charge additional health insurance policies because young and healthy are not treated much, they do not have large costs and all persons who pass a certain age or are sicker, leave to HZZO. They let us finance it from the budget. Mr. Secretary of State, and this law and this problem are related to this because we would be much easier to bear the amount of funds for people who are provided with supplementary health insurance from the budget, so that the health insurance fund is better charged. We would then much easier accept the amendment submitted by colleagues and colleagues, or by law, who submitted colleagues and colleagues together with me and HSU and this amendment that is here before us, that these funds were not allowed by private insurance companies to rule out the old and sick from the supplementary health insurance process, but they were let go. Mr. Secretary of State, I've referred three parliamentary questions to the government of the Republic of Croatia, and every time I get the answer that it's okay and there's nothing questionable. The law stipulates that anyone who has compulsory health insurance must have the possibility to make a policy with an office or with a private health insurance company, with whom they choose and these must provide it. And when that private health insurance was established, they knew about that provision of the law. They consciously entered and then with someone's salary, and above all, with the inaction of the current health minister, they changed such a practice from what is in the law to excluding a whole series of citizens and citizens of this country from the supplementary health insurance system and they transferred it to the state. Mr. Secretary of State, I hope that you will accept the arguments that we have made in the debates so far, but I hope that you will accept the amendment sent by colleagues from HSU, I hope that after that first step, we will really go in the right direction, but I also hope that the ministry will change the path a little from what Mr. Kujundzic has done and will ensure that the Voluntary Health Insurance Act is respected in all norms and that of the Art. Article 14(2), which obliges all insurance undertakings to enter into an insurance contract with each insured person of the institution. Otherwise, we're going to have a lot of serious problems with the health insurance system and financing healthcare than we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202480	We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Željko Josic, who will now take his word for it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202481	I thank the chairman. Here's my colleague and colleagues, I've listened carefully to all the debates today and as our colleague Mrak Taritash said last week, it's politically legitimate for the opposition to suggest that the opposition criticises us, and of course it can only bring us good in this assembly because any criticism that comes from both opposition and position can always be welcomed for any law that is being discussed here. What we all agreed on was that the income census had been at rest for many years, and as my colleague Hrelja said, it has not changed since 2004. This law would bring the income censorship in line with the changes in the average consumer price index as well as the average gross salary. We can say that these increases from the income censorship may be minimal at this point, everyone would like them to be much bigger than they are at a given moment but if we compare the years that happened before us, I'll ask myself here why it hasn't been solved many years before. If we look at the composition of our assembly, we know that part of the MPs in this assembly was also an integral part of certain ruling majoritys. So on all of us at this point will be the burden of this income censorship and the supplementary insurance that is currently on this proposal, 1560 kn, it is for families, per member of families or for single people of 2000 kuna. If we were on time dealing with this topic and the supplementary insurance that goes on the burden of the state budget itself, we probably wouldn't be in this problem right now. We are dealing with the subject of pensioners here today, I can agree that at this point it is the most vulnerable group, but we also know that the additional health insurance that is on the burden of the state budget is not only for that group but also for a number of other groups. All of us who are users and we are all users of the health system, we know very well that additional health insurance helps us pay from the supplemental list of medicines, so B drug lists, rehabilitation, stay in the hospital system, everything we use in the health system itself. If we use once a year of course that a certain amount, perhaps 10, 20, 300 or 500 kn, can some of us not be high. But some of our citizens will certainly be. So I invite you to make all your constructive proposals indeed and propose to our Ministry of Health because we are all insurance companies and, of course, we all want the best for our insurance companies. At this point this was the first, I would say, step forward as far as supplemental health insurance is concerned which in some ways part of our insurance will facilitate the use of health care. At this point we touched the pensioner and I believe that part of the pensioner will really benefit. More than 660,000 users of this supplementary health insurance on the burden of the state budget are estimated to receive an additional 200. Of course, all of us who are in this assembly want our citizens to have as high quality health care as possible, so I also believe that over the next year if we continue to use this model or maybe even some better model, we will provide them with better health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202482	Mr. Sagar was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202483	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Josic, your debate was fine, there is no real objection. But you know what the point is? 160 million kuna says the government needs to ensure that these censorships are carried out by the government. But that money is enough for the censorships proposed by HSU, which are much bigger. This predicts a 3% increase in censorship, meaning from 1,939,00 to 22.00 and 1,516.00 to 1,563,00. HSU has suggested a slightly larger increase in census than 20%, which is half the wage growth in the last 16 years. as much as the census hasn't changed. And we're saying exactly that, that the money we don't know right now, says that, that Minister Maric will say he will, but that money is enough to accept the opposition's proposal, HSU specifically. That's all it's about. I don't know why here, there's the secretary of state, Minister, this morning I told him it was just math. He's making some kind of assessment. So where, who did the evaluations and how did you get to the number 200,000?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202484	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202485	Here's my colleague, Zhagar, I'm sure the people who do the evaluations are serious and don't bring any figures past some of the basic laws of statistics. I'm not sure those numbers are just put into this law and they're made up. What I said, so we at HDZ support a better health standard for our citizens, and also in this situation, this is the first time since 2008 that Mr. Hrelja said in 2004 he talks about changes in income censorship as part of additional health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202486	Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202487	Dear fellow Josic, it is known that private insurance insurance companies do not provide older people and that the offers we make on the phone as soon as they see someone older than 65. It's just that when they thank each other and they don't want to deal with them, the insurance policy. On the other hand, the State and the State Institute for Supplemental Health Insurance ensure all and they have one of their social components. And what my question is to you, what do you think in HDZ about is that you need to make additional changes that and private insurance companies provide our elderly citizens, primarily pensioners who have a great co-morbidity and spend a lot of medicines?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202488	Answer, ma'am. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202489	We know that HZZO, as you yourself said, secures everything. Is it moral and ethical for private insurance companies to make this offer, so it could be discussed. Of course, those who are pensioners who are older are also bigger consumers of the health system. HZZO recognized this very clearly and provided them with quality health care, and why private insurance companies do not do so, so it is really moral and ethics for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202490	Now he's got the word, Mr. Hrell, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202491	My respects, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am very, very proud of the HSU Council which has calculated that for an increase of 314,00 kn for a single man and for an increase of 400,00 kn for, excuse me, 400,00 kn for a single man, and 314,00 kn for a family member needs 150 million kuna this year. I'm very proud of them, professional people who know what they're doing. So, I'm proud that they said that it can cover up to 180,000 people. The government is coming against statements by members of the National Council for Retired People and the elderly that this increase in censorship can refer to 10 to 12,000 people, the government is coming out with a data of 200,000 people. Please, I'm not saying that Minister Beros told a lie, no, he told a lie. Why did he tell a lie? What's the difference? Well, because they made him that way, because they made him that way, this is propaganda for people. How can you not understand that this is propaganda? If it is the words of members of the National Council from 10 to 12 000 people, I give them 15 000 people to whom this will apply, then it is 13 million and 100 thousand kuna, then it is not these effects, so do not lie to parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Don't you dare. This is a disgrace to the Croatian Parliament. To have a law like this come here before us. To come up with the synchronization of this censorship comparing last year to last year's last year without following the pension adjustment. Once again and again, there will be a pop out of the census. There's gonna be a pop out of the census. You're saying you need to secure funds in the budget. And for the law you gave last October's assessment, said, there is no funds in the projection either in 2019 or in the '20s projection, nor in '21. So who gives you the right to use taxpayers' money by the way the party says? Well, I guess we're parliamentary democracy, I guess we should rebalance the budget. I guess we should respect the legislative authority in this country. Yeah, and we give you here, the HSU Club gives you one great opportunity. One great opportunity. Since you've confused numbers, confused pots and in a great desire to please the pensioners, to win their votes, so accept this amendment. It costs exactly as much as you were going to spend here funds you don't have in your budget, exactly that much. And you don't have any problems. Accept an amendment that will give you normal alignment where no one will ever jump out of this process again. So you have a great position to get out of this. You won't do it. Then next week, thanks to the support of fellow MPs and signatures, we will discuss the proposal for HSU law. We'll talk about it, so I'll tell my colleagues and colleagues that this can happen. How? I'll tell you next week because you don't deserve to be told how this can be solved because you're being arrogant, because you think the pensioners for you are a promotional coin, because you think it's easy to dance with them, that it's a cheap, cheap sale, and I'm very, very, very scared of HDZ all these years and when he's carrying gifts and just so you know. This isn't the only law. Next week, expect in the procedure of the National Compensation Act for the elderly according to an emergency procedure where you will be told that 136 million kuna will be spent for those who already receive social assistance of 800 kuna. So, no new funding, just gonna get pension status, not more social benefits. Therefore, once again you will be presented with a broad scope law that will cover up to 8 thousand to possibly 12 or 15, if some criteria are reduced. So, don't be expensive pensioners and pensioners, but also low-income citizens, unemployed, to whom this applies, to buy that this is the virtue of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I warn you all together that this is a legal package with what will come, that it's a legal package called pensioners at a discount and a safe announcement of choice. In conclusion, my individual, retired, beware of the virus, but beware of cheap pre-election tricks. Keep to yourself, you're worth a lot, a lot, a lot more than dumped crumbs which, in the outflows of charity, push you under the nose of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202492	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202493	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of the Hill. So we have a chance to compare them with two bill proposals. One bill of law that last year, when the Crowns didn't even know the k, gave you in the procedure and another draft of the law with which the Government came because that the Crown had forced you to go to the procedure as soon as possible because elections will be evident. But what happened at the Ministry of Finance? What happened at Minister Maric's? That he told you that he had no money, that he had neither scheduled for 2021 nor '22, and that now suddenly some money would be found. What kind of magic is that? We have the crown age, we have the economy not working, we have the dubious in the budget, we have a sequence, we have a series of things, and when he sees some magic wand or some magic or something will solve the problem. When the government came with a proposal, but when you came, it was a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202494	The answer, Mr. Hula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202495	I'm afraid that in the finale, this could throw on Croatian society or cause very big consequences because we are now in one process when under the coronary virus money can be spent with this excuse in different ways and without parliamentary supervision. Parliamentary control of spending money is the only budget, that accounts are held here and plans to do something about it. Believe me, this all seems to avoid budget rebalances, everything seems to avoid budget rebalances, and some new government is going to deal with these problems and get cassation out of the fire after a wasteland that's going to come after the coronary pandemic, most of all because we haven't bothered to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202496	The first line was Mr. Mrsic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202497	Comrade Hrelj, we've passed the crown laws, this is the corona profiting law, and you know that at the time of the war, the wartimes, the profiteers are making money, but obviously they're not going to earn pensioners here, but they're going to try to earn HDZ because they buy pensioners for 47 and 61 kuna, respectively. The idea of this government is to bribe as many pensioners as possible, because if he thinks well of the pensioners, in the first place, he refused your proposal which is much better, and on the other hand he wants this by an emergency procedure which has nothing to do with the coronary epidemic. What is also needed to see what will happen to the budget because it is obvious that these funds do not even have a colleague Maric and that is what is the problem of this House, that the problem of the budget will obviously be solved by another government that will form after the elections in July.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202498	Mr. Hrelja, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202499	Ma colleague Mrsic, I understand your concern but I am more concerned about trying to deceive all pensioners with elementary mathematics. They cannot understand that an increase of 47 or 61 kn among pensioners who have 130,000 by 2000 and after 2000 there are over 200,000, including 200,000 people. No, elementary mathematics shows that it could cost 160 million. He can't. A 15 000-dollar procedure, which I consider a plus in terms of the current situation, is always a small plus, but that can cost 15,000 people, so it can cost 150 million kuna, impossible. It could cost $13 million and 100,000. It's a finished story. It's basic math.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202500	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202501	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you're right, so they're not retired acrobats to dance on a wire, so whether this moment or that moment jumps out of the census. And look at how the government treats institutions in the Republic of Croatia. This is a report on HZZO’s business for 2018. Number of valid policies in supplementary health insurance on 31. 12. In 2018, it is 2 350 148, with 1 676 787 persons paying for the additional health insurance policy themselves and pay attention to the sentence "and for 673 361 policy insurance policy should be paid on the burden of the state budget", the whole story lies there. This is just and truly pre-election populist law because the manipulation of numbers, in this case they say 200,000 and anyway neither will there be 200 000 nor that money has been secured, and if you're right, then you can pass HSU's proposal, and the state can always play with this so that even that money doesn't even transfer, just to write it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202502	The answer, Mr. Hula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202503	Dear colleague Sagar, yes, it is interesting that this formulation is because I know something about it, I said in the introduction on behalf of the club that I have been following this very intensively since 2013 and I know that in the last 10 years the state has remained in debt to supplemental health insurance according to what the law is bound by more than a billion and 200 million kunas. And this system works, it only exists thanks to the facts between us and our citizens, the millions and 670,000 that are regularly, each month they pay an extra health insurance policy of 70 kn and each day on a jury account of supplementary health insurance on the left on average 3 and a half million kuna per day. Remember the system of large numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202504	Now he'll have his own debate, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202505	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So it should once again be pointed out that this bill in this form as it came with its reasoning is not good. Why isn't he good? We called it a populist and pre-election law. It's not good because the census provided for in that law didn't set it right. So it is clear what is the poverty line in the Republic of Croatia and it is clear how many people should be covered by this legislative proposal. Also today, we have repeatedly emphasized to you, the secretary of state, that the number listed by the 200,000 insurance companies covered by this law cannot be correct, it is too bloated and congested. If we look at only two documents, the first HZMO report, the second HZZO report, we can use simple mathematics with the help of the statistics shown here, come to the conclusion that this number cannot possibly be greater than 50,000 insurance companies and not as proposed here 200 000. My colleague Hrelja said that this number is far and far smaller, but everything and if it's true, if it's 200,000 and if you have 160 million, then why don't you accept the HSU law that also proves that this censorship can be set at a much higher amount? It has been said here several times that projections have been made, that a serious analysis has been done, but nowhere in the law, why does this analysis not stand in reason? By what criteria? If we look at the schedule according to HZMO, it follows naturally as everything in nature follows so-called "HZMO". The normal distribution that genius Gauss has long defined, then we see that the limit you've set since 2000, which is only 3% increase compared to the current male censorship, actually cuts off most of the pensioners who are at the poverty line. There are about 200 000 receiving from 2000 to 2500 kn and 150 000 receiving from 1500 to 2000. And if we eliminate those who have family pensions, who are not going to get this part of the story anyway, and if we assume that most of them are not their only income, then we can easily come to the conclusion that what you are, what you have led 200,000 people to be a simple deception and that it's just a pre-election promise. What I'd like to tell you, during the course of my time, I've been involved in collecting signatures to increase censorship for additional health insurance. The pensioners collected these signatures in cold weather, it wasn't hard for them, it wasn't just those who, who would be covered by this censorship, were also collecting those who, to whom nothing, actually, won't get their benefit because they, they, and their receipts, come out of these censors. They collected and gave signatures and young people. All agreed that the poorest of the population should not pay additional health insurance. And you know why? That's what my colleague Hrelja mentioned. Well, there's money in public security, now it's in the moment. If you're saying there's 160 million then there's enough to properly increase that censorship, not for this one, for these miserable amounts. And finally, what's most important. Health care in the Republic of Croatia must remain public and therefore should not be played with. I'm deliberately saying play games because this is really playing. These estimates of 200,000 people without any basis are playing with that health system. A fellow coat of arms has rightly warned that private insurance companies are in play here. If we remember that former Minister Kujundzic announced an increase, the necessary increase in supplementary health insurance, which went only and could only be handled by private insurance companies who will not provide older people anyway, but leave it to a public insurance provider who is then more exposed. So, let me conclude this debate of mine. He's got money. We don't see the rebalancing at this point, and I just think that's why elections are announced because the rebalance is gone and probably the rebalancing wouldn't, would it? And you're saying in this case that Minister Maric said that, that the money will be secured. We don't know how and we don't know what position. If six months ago when the coronary virus situation wasn't serious, when the economy wasn't exposed, then the government claimed there was no money. That is why I invite you to accept the amendments. to accept HSU's proposal to increase the censorship that is realistic, which is sustainable and which will not continue to drive the pensioners into poverty and keep them in such a state that they do not know at what point they will come out of, the very censorship of supplementary health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202506	Mr. Mrssic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202507	I don't know if he's lying to a goat or a horn, but the government said that he has these funds, so I'm just going to quote the finance minister who said that the revenues of the budget in the first 10 days of April are a third of the income from the same period last year, and he reiterated that financing will help and solve the consequences of the crisis caused by the coronavirus of the Republic of Croatia in the first step, first of all, relying on the domestic market. And now it's a little weird, contradictory, we don't have money because the budget is filling up weak, and on the other hand we're increasing budget expenditures for that extra 160 million. Therefore, either someone lies or lies to Maric or lies to those who wrote the explanation of this law knowingly raising the figure, what their colleague Hrelja said, that this is far from what is real, and wanting to impress the pensioners to give them a vote in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202508	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202509	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrsic, it is only sad to me that, it is clear that the Prime Minister and the Government and HDZ are going into a pre-election campaign, but it is unfortunate that this assembly is being converted into a pre-election rally because this is how it can be promised, it will be 200 000, 160 million, we do not know any of that data, nor how they came to 200,000, where it is, where it is 160 million, but they do care. So who cares? Who will ask after a few months what you've been up to, and the pensioners will only find out later if they'll get into that one, whether they're in those scissors or not, it'll only be later on, but then it'll be too late. We claim and responsibly claim it here and that, and we can show it to the government and we've sent it to the government in a proposal that many pensioners who now hope to be, that they won't, that they won't pay this one extra, that they're still going to pay it, and that these are the poorest layers of this population, and we think that the censorships that HSU suggested are, that they're just and that they're real.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202510	There's another replica of Mr. Hrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202511	Dear fellow Zhagar, yes, and I was at the stands, we were collecting signatures, also signed by those who had paid, voluntary blood donors, so those who were freed from the payments of extra and students and students, so all those who had, then, more than 18 years ago or more, were signing adult citizens and disabled as a sign of solidarity that poor citizens who had incomes below 2.430,00, living alone or by family member 1,830,00 that they, that they had to be taken care of by the state and given them free supplementary health insurance. A month after winter, in the weather, our older citizens collected signatures with great sympathy for younger citizens, this, the 50,000 signatures the government ignores as if they didn't exist, so does our pensioners, but cheats on them and shows charity, acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202512	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202513	Yes, my colleague Hrelja, the pensioners of the '90s have been robbed and deceived many times. So, I agree. When they collected the signatures, they showed understanding of the problem, they showed responsibility, and they set out in the story. The government has now set off with a completely reverse story and has said that such a small increase will help them. That's not gonna happen. The pensioners will remain far below the poverty threshold with their pensions, and by the way they have to pay additional health insurance in the public insurance company if they will not take them in private, and in that public insurance company there is, unfortunately, money at the moment, and especially because all the tests have stopped, they have all stopped, all the procedures and just those pensioners who are the most exposed and most prone to diseases at this point do not have adequate health care, and that is, that is, one of the problems, and they will be increasingly in the future if they can't, if they can't pay additional health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202514	Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, Mr Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202515	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So these intentions of the Government are very transparent and I will call on all of these 200 thousand citizens, mostly pensioners, that after tomorrow, or May 1st, when this law comes into force to call HZZO, additional health insurance, and to check whether they belong to these censors so as not to accidentally believe that this will happen to them what is written in this law and go to elections and commend the authors, rewarded the authors of this bill. Members of the National Council who traded with Andrej Plenkovic say this applies to 10 to 12 thousand pensioners because they have fallen out of the 250 thousand system since 2012. In the last couple of synchronizations, which this covers, it fell out somewhere between 10 and 12 grand. I'm giving them 15 grand, which means it's $1300,000. That can't cost 160 million. Guys, don't cheat on MPs, don't cheat on citizens, this doesn't make any sense. And I repeat again, for 17 years I've been performing from this stage, 17 years, never, ever, ever this bad law in front of the government of the Republic of Croatia has come into procedure. A law that's bad with arguments, with arguments and with norms. Norma says she'll be harmonising this censorship with the pension growth last year, which compares to the previous one, and there's going to be a crackdown on the censorship again. Guys, can't you see this is a trick? Can't you see this is a trick? I made a mistake on behalf of the club before. I wrongly congratulated Intergenerational Solidarity Day, not international. European Day of Intergenerational Solidarity, a continent that knows what solidarity is between generations. A continent that takes care of its old and poor. You don't take care of the old and the poor around here. For what reason? Because there is no strategy to combat poverty, and in the strategy against poverty, the secretary of state, it is written that one of the basic elements of protection and availability of healthcare is an increase in the censorship of supplementary health insurance. If you had any good intentions, you would have done it in 2016 as soon as you arrived, not the last moment of your term of office. That's not how you do it. But I have to, when I touched 2016, say that the same tricks as 2016 wanted to get the votes of the pensioners, those who had no income because and then there was a lot, a lot of things that didn't work out. And that's when the national pension was promised 1300 kuna. She's not anywhere. It will be, the second week you will receive this bill, so it is announced, in the government's procedure it will be this package of deception and buying pensioners' votes by acting the government's great well-being towards the poor. People, are you believers? Is that how you take care of the poor? You're giving everyone, just not needed. Are those the pillars of our society? No, they're not. Gentlemen, finally, I want to congratulate you on another international day. International Dance Day because today the HDZ dance started for the retirement vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202516	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202517	Next statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 934, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes a higher amount of the preceding censorship for the exercise of the right to supplementary health insurance which is not accepted because this legislative proposal, in line with the financial opportunities, ensures an increase in the income price for the achievement of the right to additional health insurance from the State budget drop and continuous indexation, which will each year, and according to the revenues of the previous year, establish the right to a policy on the burden of State budget funds. This legislative proposal covers all categories of insurance and not only the category of pensioners representing 1/3 of the total number of insurance undertakings eligible for payment of the premium of supplementary health insurance from State budget funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202519	Affidavit... Amendment, Your Honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202520	I've known for many years, I've been listening to this parrotic approach to the defense of the law, and unfortunately you've had a wonderful opportunity to harmonize with the amendment the reasoning of the law and the reservation of the funds you're planning to make with the censors. You have the wrong math in law. I said that this pay phone never came before the parliamentary deputies, it's an insult to this parliament, it's an insult to the pensioners, because you forgot one thing to say, 2/3 of those whom the censors refer to are pensioners, of course, free supplementary health insurance covers and voluntary blood donors and students and students and disabled people, we all know it, you don't need to teach us, you don't need to teach us, we can teach you. I've been dealing with this since 2013, I know every detail about supplementary health insurance. When I wrote this law with censorships 300 and 400 kn, we went with the logic that 15 years didn't increase the censorship, that at that time 42% increased the salary and we increased the censorship by 20.5%. So we were fair and correct. This is what we suggest as an amendment to reconcile the two nonsense you wrote, that an increase of 47 and 61 kn will take 150 million and that this will apply to 200,000 citizens. It will be applied to a maximum of 15,000 citizens and will cost up to 13 million, please explain that. I'll call you if there's any luck and opportunity the first time we meet here to see who was right, I know that I am and that you're doing stupid things. I'm asking for a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202521	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202522	Before that, before we move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, we have two hands in the air, dear colleague Mrak Taritash, here's a third, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202523	Thank you very much. Since we have a slightly different situation here today, I'm reporting before the point that I want to say and it's about the 27th point today that we're going to vote on, so it's about two bill proposals. One bill came from the ruling ones, and this is about the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which is not the crown of the law, it's indirectly the crown law, it's actually about one pre-election law, one campaign in which HDZ is tied to the elections and where it decides with a small, small shift to reach the pensioners and promises them a better fate. In doing so, there was also a bill from a colleague of the Hrelja, who was in October 10th and in October last year when the government responded that there were no finances, so there was neither in the budget for 2021 nor in '22. funds. In the meantime, a magic wand was obviously found and decided to go with this law. It is in the debate last week, and today at the vote and the proposal by GLAS that we have proposed that people in self-insulation receive full compensation during this self-insulation. The only reason the government said it was refusing our bill is that in the budget we did not exactly specify the way in which finance will be planned at that time in self-insulation there were 1,800 of our fellow citizens. So we have two suggestions. One proposal you will refuse, it is about the crown, it is about our fellow citizens who are in self-insulation with an explanation that we did not exactly specify an item from the budget. And the second proposal that the government, which the government proposes where what in the budget is not known from which items it will be, does not matter. Well, I'm asking nicely that when they vote to take care of the elemental decency. One will bounce off the same aspect others are proposing to vote with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202524	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202525	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am speaking to you and may I have your attention? Today you will be complicit of a great deception that with a minimum increase of 47 and 61,00 kcn of census for an additional health insurance policy, this will apply to 200,000 people. He won't. It's going to affect up to 15,000 people. It's a dilettaneous law written. If it is fake or dilettaneal then both are very harmful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and very harmful to the efficiency of the Republic of Croatia. It won't, it won't cost 150 million kunas that the government intends, I don't know where, but it'll cost the most 13 million kunas. Guys, it's lies, delusions. It's a cheap purchase of retirement votes with promises. I remind you that 50,000 citizens signed a petition for censorships of 1,830,00 per member of the family or 2,340,00 if a person lives as a single person. Among them were 58 MPs, of which 14 from the parliamentary majority, I will not name them. I ask you, you have a chance to vote for the amendment I gave in front of HSU, in front of our club, and to shed light on yourself and show respect for 50,000 elderly citizens who were collecting signatures in November last year for the necessary censorships for additional health insurance. Therefore, please, I call you to your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202526	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202527	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have passed a dozen crown laws and this law that today will vote has nothing to do with the Coronal epidemic, we can call it the Coronary Profit Law. Apparently HDZ is going with it and we're going to have more laws like this until the assembly is dissolved. In the reasons for the laws submitted by counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash and who I have submitted to the Pension Insurance Act, the Government has made it very clear to us that we cannot approve it because there is no budget for this year, nor in budget projections for 2021, and today in this explanation, in the light of this law it is very clear that there is money in the budget. Obviously or money is in the budget on some item that you can't see, so we need a rebalancing, we expect it to be in the assembly very soon because as far as we hear the rebalancing is done, or this is a lie and a deception that wants to buy pensioners for cheap money. The difference between what is now and what is proposed by the Government is 41 to 61,00 kn, 47 to 61,00 kn and is not 200 000 pensioners but 15 to 20 000 pensioners, one big colorful lie and I don't think it should have been in the assembly at this time, but parliamentary elections are coming, and apparently HDZ wants to stay in power in any way, so I expect there will be more of these coronas of profit-making laws with very nice explanations of the government. The government has been saying it's credible all along, and with an explanation of how this dilettane law was written and with the arguments that are inside it it's very clear that the government didn't have that credibility then, and neither is it now. Retired people don't succumb to cheap populistism, don't let HDZ buy you for 40,00 kn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202528	Comrade Vard, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202529	Yesterday in the debate, I was talking about the fact that this law is not just about pensioners. Therefore, there is no lie, no deception. It refers to all categories of population who, so far compared to low censorships, and especially pensioners who, through an increase in pension of 20 or 30.00 kn, came out of the census and had to pay additional health insurance of 70.00 kn. So it refers to all categories of users, not just pensioners. Secondly, and now in increasing pensions, so from 10, 20, 60,00 kn pensioners, as is usually said, the poorest part of the people loses the right to free supplementary health insurance. I appeal to you to accept this proposal because this government has shown social sensitivity and, let's say, with the Royal Insurance which the Government, which was Minister Mrsic, did not want in any way... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202530	Just a little bit of a colleague Varda for a second. My colleague, Varda, probably didn't agree with what you said, so he didn't vote... I'm asking you to be parliamentary and let us have different opinions. Don't be nervous, everyone has the right to express their views, you don't have to agree with him, but we stick to the order. We're going to vote now, actually no, first we'll settle the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent MPs and New Politics. We had a statement on the amendment earlier in the session. The amendment was not accepted by the applicant. I am now voting on amendments to the HSU-SNAGA-independent advocates' club and the new policy that the government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Here's the score. 119 voted 44 for, 1 abstention and 74 against, so the amendment did not pass. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes are 79 for, 11 abstentions and 24 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Joe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202531	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 844. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 199th, 190th Pardon, Rules of Procedure of HS. The amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? She's with us. State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman of the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. Here, let me present to you in short the Final Proposal for a Law implementing a Regulation on cooperation between national authorities in the area of enforcement of consumer protection rules. Introductoryly, I would like to say that this is not, so this is an implementing act, not the first act, but it exists, so there was a regulation at EU level that regulated cooperation between national authorities in the enforcement of consumer protection regulations. In particular, Regulation 2006/2004, however, the development of the Internet, the development of new forms not so much new now, has led to a greater number of violations, cross-border violations of consumer rights and, of course, this affects the distortion of competition. And it is also important to say that it is, of course, not correct and against those traders who regularly and properly respect the laws. There are therefore situations where traders from one Member State violate the rights of consumers in another Member State or in several Member States and, to that end, this regulation, which we are now implementing through law, is being implemented in our legislation. Therefore, the primary objective of this Regulation is to strengthen the existing system of cooperation between Member States and their national authorities that are responsible for monitoring and enforcement of consumer protection rules, as follows. First, the conditions for effective coordination and cooperation between competent authorities are ensured through the already established network, so the network set up by that regulation. Here may be just one example, a very specific example, if we have an Italian trade chain that sells the product via the Internet in one of the other countries in Croatia, Spain, Portugal anywhere, while not respecting the rights of consumers, for example with a material deficit within two years, but only within one year then, in that case, the inspection body of the Member State in which consumer rights are violated through a network of national authorities is required to monitor the trader who makes such a failure, investigations are carried out, such business practice is prohibited, and, where appropriate, the trader is sanctioned. The second element that is important for this implementing law is that the establishment of single liaison offices is just incentivised by such effective coordination in such a way that each Member State establishes such a single liaison office, and in the case of Croatia, it will be the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. They shall also be determined in art. 5. Other bodies responsible for the implementation of the Regulation, in accordance with their prescribed scope, are the names of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Electronic Media, the Agency for Coastal Linear Maritime Transport, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, HACOM, the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the CNB. They are therefore granted minimum powers for the investigation and for the enforcement of the measures prescribed by the regulation itself. The aim is to enable faster and more effective cooperation between those competent authorities at national and cross-border level and to ensure what I have previously stated, which is to take measures to prevent consumer injury. We expect that this kind of cooperation will affect the deterrence of traders from committing injuries and ensure that those traders who do not comply with consumer protection regulations do not use legal gaps in such a way as to move their business to those Member States whose competent authorities are not equipped to resolve illegal practices. It is also necessary to say that the regulation lays down bodies which act as bodies issuing external warnings in each Member State or which have the necessary expertise and information on consumer rights violations and cooperate with the aforementioned ministries and agencies in the implementation of this Regulation. In the final proposal of this law, the European Consumer Centre, acting at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft, shall be designated as the authority responsible for issuing external warnings. Finally, this Regulation or the implementing law provides and determines effective proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in the event of infringements of the rights covered by the Regulation, and thus we believe that there is a mechanism by which, in the event of infringement of the right, traders will be able to properly sanction themselves. It is essential to say, by implementing the regulation in Croatian legislation to remove barriers to cross-border trade, it contributes to increasing consumer rights and trust in electronic trade at the level of the single market and following all these, I propose that the Final Proposal for a Law on Cooperation be supported between national bodies responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202533	Replica, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202534	Thank you very much, Vice President. One question for the secretary of state. The proposal for a law implementing this Regulation lays down bodies to implement it. The Ministry of Economy is not designated as the competent authority for the implementation of this Regulation, is there any reason since this ministry is proposing this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202535	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202536	You got it. Thank you very much for asking. The Ministry of Economy or the European Consumer Centre, as I have pointed out, has the capacity to issue an external warning to the competent authorities. It is therefore the body that knows consumer legislation best and has the possibility to obtain timely information on the infringement of the right through the established body network and to forward this competent information to the competent authority which, within the course of its activity, has the opportunity to carry out the investigation procedure and take appropriate measures. So the ministry is definitely involved in that network.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202537	Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202538	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Zigman, my question is related to Article 5, as well as to colleagues of Klisovic related to the competent authorities, for example, to explain what if, for example, it is a case that is a threat to consumer rights, which affects between two competent bodies, such as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, it is concrete. What, in that case, is the authority responsible, and what is the further hodogram of steps towards the State Inspectorate? The second question is also related to Article 21, or 22, which regulates actual criminal provisions and fines. Is monetary punishment proportionate in all Member States or is Croatia perhaps less in proportion to other Member States? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202539	Here's your answer. You want an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202540	Thank you very much for this question. Therefore, as regards Article 5 and in the case in which 2 bodies, it is therefore a liability under 2 bodies or under their jurisdiction, it is certainly this way that the network and cooperation between the bodies that enables the sanctioning of consumer rights to be as effective as possible. Therefore, each body shall act within its jurisdiction, and where the State Inspectorate is to act on the basis of a breach of the rules, then the case shall go to the inspectorate and, if necessary, shall be sanctioned by the trader. As regards the sanctions provided for in Articles 20 and 21 of our knowledge, they are comparable to what is therefore happening or sanctioned in other Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202541	Third replica, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202542	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, especially at this time when the intensity of trade is growing on the Internet, what is actually the theme of this proposal for the inclusion of this regulation to be operational. The question arises whether the State Inspectorate is really the best organization to address when there is a problem. Of course, before they were regional centres that took care of consumers, you have yourself within the consumer protection centre, they were somehow much closer, and now that we are looking at the credibility of the State Inspectorate itself with these latest actions, I ask the question whether consumers are going to say directly to them and think that it will really help them because the model that was with consumer protection centres is much closer to such, for such needs, and I consider the personal and experience we have, you have, too, that it would be much more appropriate for them to be the hand that represents interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202543	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202544	Thank you very much for asking. Consumers can also contact the European Consumer Centre directly, so it is not excluded. However, many of them are also addressing consumer centres directly because they can, through a network established in 30 countries, be the most effective in cross-border infringements and give information to.../incomprehensible/... in another Member State that there has been a breach of consumer rights. As far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, I can only say that the inspectorate is acting within its jurisdiction. I am sure that there is, of course, potential and ambition based on the implementation of the rules and to strengthen its function, so that each Member State continues to improve its function and ultimately works within the competence of the bodies which are, or competences given to certain bodies. So maybe in the end here is finally just to add that this regulation and implementing laws actually enables that rules laying down the competence of certain bodies over the implementation of the rules may also be supplemented and upgraded to ensure that the regulation itself is implemented as successfully as possible. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202545	Thank you very much. The last line on that one, in the opening part there is, is Mr. Bulj's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202546	Here, I will start with the most favourable part means a number of regulations, a number of directives, a number of orders from Europe did not bring anything to Croatian consumers, they brought multinational companies that trade abroad, much more unquality goods in our territory, to the detriment of Croatian consumers, all consumers, and, of course, Croatian cashiers and those who work in that store because they work under the minimum, now in the coronary crisis they worked up to 5 hours, and from 5 to 8, 9 hours our wife worked hard, lying, moving, storing this burden, and no one cares about it. So this regulation can't be regulated by Andrija Mikulić because he doesn't care, it's important for him to shut down domestic economic, catering, and not to protect domestic consumers. Therefore, I think that this copying of more of these directives, a EU regulation full of everything, has not been protected by the Croatian people and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202547	Thank you, thank you. State Secretary's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202548	Thank you very much for your observation, so I'd say he's a line store something that's going on, so people buy across the border. Surely we will not be able to prevent regulations, so both our citizens and other citizens, of course, from buying in our home. Finally, it is in the interest of our traders to sell their products in other countries, and this regulation and one effective coordination between bodies that are responsible for protecting consumer rights and sanctioning the unfair treatment of traders, we allow our citizens to be protected from such cross-border trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202549	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? I can't because they're gone. That's why I'm opening the debate. The first is Mr Tomislav Panenic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202550	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, of course, that at this time when more and more people are turning to online trade, what we are saying is, in fact, the most important thing about cross-border trade is that not only by physical departure but also what we are getting from any other country, that our consumer has the most possible protection. And the protection is in the sense that the price that is being pointed out somewhere, that it is the ultimate price, that it is not certain hidden elements, that the delivery deadlines that are indicated are appropriate, that the return of goods that is within 14 days can be carried out, that the costs of return, we have a lot of elements that we talk about when it comes to trading with another country. And at the end of the day, we are a member of the EU, we can trade with whoever we want and we just want to, here's my colleague Bulj said we want our Croatian consumers to be protected and we need strong mechanisms there. It is not just that, fellow Bulj, those mechanisms in the Croatian state, which should be the inspectorate, colleague Andrija Mikulić, who should really be the one who leads it sovereignly in a way that everyone feels protected from our entrepreneurs and to the consumer because they depend on each other, and between them is the inspectorate. And if the entrepreneur feels insecure under the supervision of inspectorates under the management of Mr Andrija Mikulić, then he probably carries it on to both those and his consumers because dissatisfaction is growing. Now we should not only protect our consumers, but we also have examples of where from other countries trading with our entrepreneurs in possible situations a state inspectorate should appear again to help even others. So somewhere we just have to say that it's us who are really protecting, helping, it's not just the letter of the law, it's someone who needs to recognize a situation that we don't recognize right now. We found this for the first time under the conditions of the crown crisis, our entrepreneurs, our family farms for the first time sold some of their, many of them even, their products via the Internet platform, they managed to do so and of course they needed help. And that's actually what we expect from all institutions, first of all, is help, when you talk to someone about having time for you, that they want to commit to, that they want to protect your interests so that we don't get someone buying on a website that's from England, Hungary, I don't know what possible country pays for something. So our people also paid tractors, paid tens of thousands of euros and were eventually cheated and had no one to turn to in Croatia, had no international protection, and there is no one to tell another country that we are partners with even in the EU that it can't do that. You can't simply have entrepreneurs who will cheat in other countries and that in the end you can't contact him or that the site that sells a beautiful car at a price that's slightly lower than marketable is simply a fraud. And our people remain deceived and they feel they're not protected enough. Of course, what I mentioned to the secretary of state, the question of the consumer centre, is something that should be very accessible to them. I know that you have open lines, that it is not controversial, but let's ask our citizens how many of them there are in some aspect of the number I can call? How many are there? Let's ask them, in fact, we're bringing laws here, but let's ask them after we've passed the laws if you know which rights you're guaranteed, what can you do or simply leave them to see ok, as they say now I'm on it so what am I going to do, it's my own fault. Now, that's bad, when our consumer thinks he's being played and he's guilty, he hasn't paid enough attention. Should we have such a system that simply does not pour confidence, and should be for the smallest bit of consumer fraud? It has to be a reaction and it has to be not only a reaction but also publicly proclaimed which are all, what's happening in our environment, that sometimes even something that isn't a fraud is a commodity or service that's sold in one way that's been faked. As far as we're concerned, we haven't even resolved in the Croatian state, the secretary of state, to have someone come into a nursing home and sell them a package he's calling, we're from Telekom, what do they all think first? Croatian Telekom? Croatian company? In the end, the thread is Croatian, neither is Telekom but someone else from the competition who handles people in a nice way and then needs to arrive in those 14 days first to understand what happened to them and to react, so eventually it turns out if they have someone in the neighborhood or in the familiarity that they can address and believe that help will then exercise their rights. But in many, many cases simply fail to respond, so when they somehow come to it all together then they just say but it's past your deadline, 14 days have passed, you have no right and only the financial damage in which they've been led astray. And we're going to say, and you need to know what you went to negotiate, the law is like this, and we're going to find a million excuses and we're really going to find an excuse. And then the question is now that we are setting up one consumer protection network at EU level, when we strengthen it, whether the whole system will address it and tell us, and we are sorry, but you should have reacted earlier. Being deceived is your own fault. The 15th day all belongs to you and there is no one who will take more because the law is the hands, so the State Inspectorate will never, if the consumer of the 15th day turns to them and says I think I'm being deceived here, they'll say we're sorry, 14 days is a deadline, we can't help you. And they won't come out with a statement saying here's the case going on, what don't do, they'll say you should have reacted sooner. And I know you can't bring back some, which is legally defined, but such a trader, such an entrepreneur who does so, must be publicly called that it is unacceptable. Did we have anyone with us that any company, especially these big ones, I've just mentioned certain companies dealing with telecommunications, did the state call them that they just couldn't conduct this kind of behavior? It's still being played. We have something that appears in the media, and that's why it's a question of whether it puts inspectorate in the media, I prefer to believe it will put a consumer centre. I rather believe that it will put a consumer centre because it is a real location and there is understanding and this is the responsibility of the ministry and this was a legitimate question, why it is not more pointed out that it is the first point that ultimately not only through expertise but through that availability it can urinate not only by sanctioning but also by preventing it. So you have to warn if in this time all possible offers, shops on, that go through a certain internet platform where a lot of things are in need, people want to sort of sell their product to make income, that they can survive this and they need help. They may make some mistakes, but it should be said, they will come out in some way, they need to look for the model to meet their consumers to solve a possible misunderstanding that has happened, but we also need to be aware that there will be a lot of important entrepreneurs who will take advantage of this situation in order to make a quick profit on what they are actually going to offer, which does not correspond to reality or in some way promote goods in frames that do not correspond to real characteristics, and we need to be much stronger there, so that it does not fall out of an initiative that comes from a number of local self-government, regional self-government, and, finally, here, the Ministry of Agriculture has brought out as one measure of establishing such, such a portal that it is not ultimately, that we have negative consequences. We must defend if we go, support, if this is politics and these governments, then there must simply be protection at the maximum level that will ensure that there is no situation that is damaged by a party and that there is no one to turn to or anyone to whom it would address is simply so discredited by its actions that people do not believe it. And that is why I once again mention the question of the State Inspectorate that you have listed, I would say that it was a mistake to be the Ministry of Economy, and all others can be implemented, but the first body that not only coordinates but also accepts the remarks de be the body that really has the power to implement it and which will not be called for improper treatment as we have in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202551	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Ivan Šipic to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues, colleagues, here in February we discussed this important issue about many of our colleagues and the insignificant in view of this kind of interest we have to conclude our colleagues in the assembly, but in the first reading we discussed in the second month on this topic that is too important, which is, for sure, consumer, consumer, consumer, and we are in the nature of things, in real life, essentially all of us. Therefore, persons who purchase, produce or consume services offered to them on a particular product or service market at a certain point. Consumer protection is a legal area dealing with the protection of citizens' fundamental rights in the role of consumers in a wide range of businesses in which they supply products and services on the market. In the Republic of Croatia, consumer protection is regulated by the Consumer Protection Act. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has become a single market. The aim of consumer protection policies in the EU is to guarantee consumer rights in relation to traders and to provide better protection to sensitive consumer groups. The EU lays down rules for the protection of consumer safety and rights, including in areas that are rapidly developed such as the said Internet trade, energy supply and financial services. I also support the European Consumer Protection Centres, which provide assistance in cross-border disputes as a result of the internal market established, but also technological innovations over time, the need for consumer protection in relation to products, services purchased cross-borderly and increasingly and through digital communication channels is developing so quickly and extensively that the relationship of supply and demand is significantly changing and thus affecting competitiveness across the European market. The data that says that internet purchases in the EU grew faster and faster, on average at an annual rate of more than 20% is something that further contributes to the need for this law and this regulation to be harmonised. must be brought and revived as soon as possible. Today, when faced with a coronary crisis, people around the world are accustomed to spending a day in their homes. The last few weeks our real world has become and moved to virtual. We spend more time in front of TV, laptop, cell phone than in contact with real people. The adjustment thus involves giving up some day - to - day activities. Besides drinking coffee in the open, hanging out with friends and shopping. He has been shopping for years is an integral part of most of us's lives, and such purchase has only won importance during the pandemic of the coronary virus since many rely on the supply of groceries, home supplies or clothing. Before the beginning of March of this year, the categories within which the most bought via the line trade were shoes, clothes and fashion accessories, almost 77% less than 80%. Informatics, white technique and home appliances more than 50% cosmetics, perfumes more than 40%. Various offers produce for cleaning and personal hygiene almost 40%. Sports props and equipment almost 30% and could thus list percentages in each area. Although in the first week of March, the number of users on the line of purchase fell from 84% to 48% according to the intention of this type of purchase and respondents in the recent future expected total growth of more than 5% in the total use of the line purchase. This proposal, which is partly and most important for us, sets out that the State Inspectorate, as a single liaison office, shall be responsible as the coordinator of the implementation of this Regulation, determines that the authorities responsible for the implementation of the regulation as well as the powers of those bodies, along with the State Inspectorate, shall also be the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture, Health, the Agency for Electronic Media, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activity, etc. In all, it is determined that the authorities, the body responsible for issuing external warnings to the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation, also lays down infringement provisions for the conduct of a positive, i.e. determines and manages the processes of whether or not someone adheres to these envisaged legislative regulations. One of the objectives of the smooth functioning of the internal market is to ensure mutual cooperation between the competent authorities, as well as the cooperation of competent authorities with other public rights bodies, and all to prevent infringements as the possibility of breach of the rules protecting the rights and interests of consumers. Consumer protection holders are, of course, the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Consumer Protection, which is here the Resorient Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, the competent inspection bodies, then the National Consumer Protection Council, the Consumer Protection Association, etc. All units of local self-government in this area must and should take certain measures and activities under their jurisdiction for this important issue. We can also highlight some of the steps that each regional and local unit should take into account and implement. First of all, inform, inform and implement consumer education, organise consumer advice, initiate and support projects of associations, associations dealing with this important issue and participate in a specific way through projects in the implementation of the national consumer protection programme at local level. Finally, this proposal will satisfy, harmonise and meet the obligations and obligations arising from EU membership. So I would not say that it is only one way to accept these regulations that many European countries have adopted, but it is also a follow-up and a step with the co-existence of every consumer in the EU. For each commendation, the attempt of the resolution ministry and of all the bodies mentioned is that through one single, whole approach, it is responsible in every way to help all those who are consumers in any area and make it easier to curb the illegal market as much as possible because the illegal market at the same time reduces any economic growth and development. And also when we see everything that is offered through various different on-line offers, trades, what everything wants to sell then and how many of our people in one way are naively and come in to say so in such purchases, then it is even more necessary for someone to be in charge, to tie up and secure, secure one quality, fair, fair, legal, so to say and monitor all the associations that, all those who are therefore on the market. And surely there will be more significant, when it comes to life, more significant suppression of everything that is illegal, illegal and that reduces how we have said every attempt to develop Croatia in the first place as an economically stable country. Here, the HDZ Club will accept in, this regulation and this bill as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202553	Mr. Miro Bulj will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202554	Thank you very much. Dear citizens, representatives of the Croatian Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, consumers, consumer protection, consumer rights, etc. the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia with all orders, regulations, directives we prescribe are absolutely not the same as in other EU members, and we can talk about this, and already colleagues have already said the meanings in their presentations. I would just say here briefly that, on all matters, if we talk about the on-line trade that regulates this as reportedly edits this area, I think that in the Republic of Croatia, consumers are damaged, and so those of us who work in foreign chains, these are mostly our cashiers and merchants, mostly now in the crown crisis when we have that crown of crime where something that was 50 lip from the protection of equipment was now even 20, 30, 50 kuna. That didn't matter to Andrija Mikulić, it's important for him to shut down our domestic businessmen. the caterers who care and deliver food, from, to survive, obeying all the rules, and he doesn't care that he defends McDonald's who delivers the day of the night, whatever he wants and however he wants GMO products, he doesn't care about this side, you don't care about foreign banks that raise huge capital. No moratorium on loans or interest. It is much more important to bring this regulation here and boast about how many of these regulations and regulations we have made within our assembly. I'm interested in basic questions. How is it possible in the Republic of Croatia that we have these teleopers that have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, we have the most expensive Internet, mobile phone, and we don't exactly have this one that we're very well covered with Internet services. Of course, what they do, they do illegally by setting up base stations without paying for local self-government, not respecting these spatial plans, so that those who trade in our area don't behave like they behave in countries where they come from. And it is all on the burden of our citizens, our local self-government and of course the entire people of Croatia. And there's no philosophy, there's one, there's no energy. When we talk about energy, of course, that we gave the Croatian government its decision for the time of Ivan Vrdoljak, during Milanovic's government, Vrdoljak brought a redundancies, that the incentive of the wind power plant, the wind power plants get who gets, foreign investors that our citizens from their pockets pay subsidies and go money in their pocket, and they didn't accept the microsolars that on our roofs we have the possibility of our families being this one not only socially but socially independent. It means they're independent families of energy. We have a water lord problem, drinking water, which wants to privatize the water. So we have in the Republic of Croatia sources privatised again by Milanovic's government. The Cetina source is given for 5,000 kuna per month at 30.5 kuna per month on 30 years of concession. For 5,000 kuna, 37 seconds lasted a debate. It is the same with Jamnica, St. Rok, so we have water lords and therefore we have proposed a stronger number of laws to protect our people because in Croatia, the tribal would be free water. I'm disappointed to see that in my Cetina region, it's collected water. Here's my colleague, Šipic, who's in front of me, the mayor of local self-government, when I see him collect water, and we're all around us. Of course, there are other structural problems for which he collects, and no one is protecting our consumers, either. And that's funny to you, of course, you're laughing at what I'm saying. It's important that you bring the regulation here, if you've copied it from "a" to "z", it could translate whoever it wants, you have an Internet app and we vote it out. Well, agriculture was destroyed because of unfair commercial practices because our consumer is not protected again by the manufacturer. Harmful food, GMO products, I've been giving laws here, you're laughing at government representatives, to ban imports, transportation with, production of GMO products and trade, foreign trade, to encourage domestic production and domestic food on our shelves. To develop the village, not to have 2/3 of Croatia empty. And it's not a consumer's protection, but you know where that consumer is? The consumer is currently in Ireland, Germany because 6% of the GDP of those people who have been evicted because of what has been done towards both the consumer and the farmer and the craftsman and the caterer. It's all tied up, we're all consumers. Al croatian politics is important that we have been here for 3 months discussing 52 laws to make Andrija Mikulić a central inspectorate, so that the Agency for Network Activities will please teleoperators for a long time, even in the same building, Croatian Telecom and Network Agency that should control this HACOM. And of course we have problems. Who's protected in the Republic of Croatia, in what way? And now we're talking here that, to protect in this case when we're talking about the Internet, about online on-line sales, about how we're protected, so we have examples in the Republic, people who out there were ordering agricultural machines that were worth several hundred thousand kunas, they didn't get them. That's the facts. It is not enough to rewrite the regulations, to appoint Andrija Mikulić, to appoint brothers from the culture minister for the head of HACOM and those other agencies and inspections that must be there is not enough. We have a problem in the Republic of Croatia that is not protected consumers and our traders, it is suitable for large trade chains that import a side of goods that is much worse quality than in countries where they produce and where they consume and buy their consumers. And if we are called on to be the same within the EU, it is a lie, and it is a deception, regardless of what we are chairing the EU, no one mentions it anymore, of course that Hungarians are now getting more funds from the EU than Croatia. What do you mean, who's going to explain it? Why will the Hungarians get more per capita than Croatia? And as chairman of the EU, no one mentions it. Why? Because he's minding all his business. We're not first self-sufficient in anything, we're not protecting domestic producers, we're not protecting these consumers, we're not protecting producers, we're not protecting people who work in stores, for example. We who, so imagine where we live. In the second or any other trading chain, how can the cashier have close to us in another EU country, EUR 2,000, or EUR 1,500, or EUR 1,000, and in us EUR 2,800? And then in this crown crisis, they work from 7 to 5, and they still have to be left with 3 to 8 unloading trucks and our women, and that's what nobody pays them. That's true, that's what you ask these women when you go shopping for the way those trade chains treat them. So, we haven't protected consumers, we have this regulation that you have adopted, we will probably pass it, like all regulations so far within the EU, we are absolutely with these regulations, except what we are voting for it and what will, at the end of the term of office, now the president is soon to praise how much we have passed the regulation, how many directives, how many laws, and that is it. As far as implementation is concerned, we are absolutely not working on this issue, nor are we protecting the Croatian man, we are working for foreign multinational companies, it is much better for McDonald's than for our man who is selling our domestics, who is fighting here to keep our people alive, the triba closed by Andrija Mikulić, Lex Mikulić, be careful we have been here for four months to discuss Andrija Mikulić, 52 laws we had to pass in order for Andrija Mikulić to become the head of the inspector. And what does he do in the end? In the greatest crisis, he tramples and spits on the masters who fight for the survival of every minister. That's why we have 6% of the GDP of the people we've evicted on the basis of the evidence. That's why 20 billion kunas a year these people send us that report from the CNB. Because we have not protected anything, nor producers, nor peasants, nor farmers, nor entrepreneurs, nor consumers, but you are only working in the interest of lobbys that do absolutely nothing good to the Croatian people, but you have brought on the contrary that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202555	Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, he is not, he is losing his right. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, is missing, losing his right. Mr. Josko Klisovic is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202556	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman with an associate. I have to say, I think this regulation is important and it's not just as redundancy as they say. We are talking here today about consumer protection, which actually comes down to the economic rights of citizens. Both the citizens of Croatia and the citizens of the EU as a whole. Of course we don't want citizens in Europe first category and second category. And here we can agree that the whole story depends on how we implement it. Of course the regulations are necessary, of course that one system is designed also in the Republic of Croatia and that it is for the benefit of Croatian citizens. But if it's not going to be done the way it's supposed to be, then we have a big problem, but we're already talking about something else. We're not talking about the State Inspectorate as an institution, but we can talk about the people who run it. But on the other hand, this assembly is the one who chose him and who could change him. So it certainly isn't the State Secretary, and it's up to us to initiate such a procedure if we think we should. The government representative is here, that's right. In any case, what is important in order to achieve citizens' rights is the need for the effective functioning of the common European market. Now this is one of the elements that we are trying to make functional, given that if we do not coordinate the application or implementation in the same way in all Member States, we will get a fragmented market that will not achieve what the EU exists for, and as it is, in fact, a European economic community. Unfunctioning the implementation of such regulations destroys consumer confidence, which is certainly not good or healthy for Croatian business, but also for European business as a whole. The non-compliance and non-implementation of such regulations, which are advocated for consumer protection, certainly also encourages debate on the purpose of the EU itself, because it is its purpose to ensure equal rights, including economic rights and the protection of consumers of all EU citizens. And therefore the functionality of the European market, the common market must be one of the priorities. Especially if we are talking about the development of a common digital market. We know the data we currently have that 61% of people living in the EU are using the Internet for online shopping. 61% is very important for the economy. But we also have information that 38% of these same people do not want to buy beyond the borders of their own country. Now why don't they want to buy? They're obviously in fear. They're afraid they won't exercise their fundamental rights. And what are the fundamental rights of consumers? Well, the right to fair treatment. Therefore, to be treated at home as well as abroad, the right not to be exposed to unfair commercial practices and against them must all be fought equally, and it is therefore very important that the competent consumer protection institutions that are mentioned in the law exchange information, exchange evidence of violations of the unfair, infringement of these regulations, or unfair commercial practices, in order to prevent them. Of course, we want to ensure that products sold across the EU, so they come to the Croatian market to be equal quality, uniform standards and prices. If that's not the case, then we have citizens of course of the first and second categories. But what is the right of all consumers is the right to compensation for damages. In the event that their claims or rights have been violated, that the rules guaranteeing them economic rights have been violated, they have the right to compensation for damages and that must simply be ensured. If that is not available, there is no trust in the system, no trust in protection, no protection of citizens' rights. And, of course, it is also necessary to prevent such unfair practices that individual entrepreneurs also use to exploit legal gaps in certain Member States to move their business from one another to another in order to fool consumers and make a profit. And then it turns out I'm the only profitable business or most profitable one that includes unfair commercial practices. In order for that to not be so necessary, cooperation between the competent authorities and this regulation that we are transposing in our legislation is exactly what it is and that is why I think it is extremely important. But what I find still a little vague is that. 5. which lists the national authorities responsible for the implementation of this Regulation or the law, which does not mention the Ministry of Economy. I see that it is listed as the body responsible for issuing external warnings to other bodies, but it is only one segment. What about all the other parts of this bill? Does not the Ministry of Economy really have any segment of jurisdiction that would not be mentioned in Article. 5. I understand that it is listed in these other articles, but art. 5. I was so just a little bit interested in it, especially as it is the European Consumer Centre or the European Consumer Centre within the Ministry of Economy which I think is very important to me, I don't know how much our citizens know about it, especially about the possibility of a quick settlement of disputes that goes over the Internet and very simple, very userf frindly and we should certainly popularize it as much as possible, because here I guess my colleague Bulj doesn't know it and that's why it all doesn't make any sense to him. In order for this to really make sense, citizens must learn about the solutions that already exist, which are working, but may not have reached every citizen and that is bad. And if we were in unfair commercial practices every day, here I was convinced yesterday when I was in a chain of commerce that I was publishing on the Internet that there was an action of a particular product, it turned out that this product was not even there, so it wasn't sold, it wasn't even there, and it was obvious that it was being dragged into these moments of the coronary crisis when there wasn't a lot of consumption, people in the largest number in that trade chain. Well, then you're attracted to one commercial about a non-existent product, and of course you buy something else, because you're already there so you don't waste time not going five times in gloves and wearing a mask over your nose. These are unfair commercial practices that we all need to fight together, whether they either restore trust in institutions or completely wipe out trust in institutions. But it is regrettable that what we call socially responsible business is becoming less and less present in the Croatian economy and that really watch ways to get faster and easier to profit by neglecting any responsible ethical, primarily business norms, and unfair commercial practices are becoming very interesting because they can be earned through them. Once they are banned through legal regulations, then they are no longer interesting and simply abandoned, they are looking for new holes in the law, and that mentality is trick-or-treating just crossing and looking for a new opportunity. I don't think these laws and regulations will be fully able to stop unfair commercial practices. What should really include education, including children through civic education, is not what we need to benefit from but what needs to be done in a different, fairer, more ethical way. Therefore, in addition to such regulations as are certainly necessary, it is also necessary to include in education programmes precisely the importance of ethically responsible business that is already being formed in childhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202557	Thank you, too. Mr. Goran Beus Richemebergh will speak in front of the GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202558	As counterpart Klisovic said, one of the EU's fundamental tasks as a community of people and states is to unify the rights, above all economic rights of EU citizens and achieve standards that will provide security in real life to all EU citizens, not only in protection but also in consumption, so it is right to consume all possible services and goods that are not only produced in the EU but traded in its area. Therefore, the EU has taken a great deal through several levels of regulation, which is another document to raise awareness of all Member States that protecting consumer rights is one of the most important in this regard in order to protect citizens from unfair commercial practices and, on the other hand, to enable them to make the most of the opportunities given to them by the European common market as easily and intensively as possible. The EU has never imagined that Member States that are the fundamental actors of this process but only those who implement or monitor the implementation of consumer rights standards. They must ensure, by their national legislation and practices, that universal recognised rights are applied equally everywhere and that infringements across the EU are combated equally effectively. In this relationship, the EU, governments and citizens as consumers are extremely important consumers because this whole thing exists because of them. It comes from a fact that unfortunately will not change so soon that citizens as consumers are not informed about their own rights and about the possibilities of protecting their own rights. It is therefore stimulated in all possible ways to inform, educate and organise. Croatia is one of the few countries that kills the organisation of consumers and does its best not to reach it. That is why speaking today in favour of this law by the Ministry of Economy is hypocritical and rude because they have been systematically working on the destruction of consumer organisations for three years. The coronary crisis shows several important things in this topic as well. There's something going on that we didn't expect so quickly, we knew, we were able to Anticipated that this process would go in that direction, but the fact that this crisis that made people stay home in different aspects, whether they were working from home or they had to be in isolation, self-insulation, quarantine or simply be kept, so for that reason digital communication became the primary regardless of whether it was the communication of a citizen with the public sector, so the state, which until yesterday the state said it was difficult, complicated, that it couldn't, and now overnight, because red tape is afraid of its own health, so now it doesn't allow citizens to enter the city and municipal administrations and county administrations, rather than instructing them to solve their problems online, and until yesterday it couldn't because now when their health is concerned then everything can. But until yesterday, they tried in all-powerful ways to remain the main player in the process to show their importance and the fact that without them, and that this country cannot cut off one third of the red tape, and a non-worker, earful mass that only came to that place where it is because the father, uncle, godfather, brother or sister knew someone or had a particular party card. Now suddenly it shows that one third of people in public services and in the state, I will say both in this House and in the state agendas, in the county, municipal city administrations that tomorrow does not come to work, as it does not come to work because of this crisis, no one would notice it alive because it does not produce any new value in terms of providing services. The other thing we discovered in the crown crisis is that we can buy online and things that were completely illogical to us until yesterday. Imagine a green salad to buy online, let's talk about something and we've been buying things that are produced somewhere else, far in larger serial quantities so it's cheaper, so it means that even with the costs of transportation and delivery it'll be cheaper like information equipment or anything, even clothes, fashion details, perfume of everything, now we can suddenly buy an egg. Great thing, of course, it's one forced education for us as a consumer of what we can and what we could have done yesterday if that market had been sufficiently developed. How much does our government care to regulate these things in time and quality says the very fact that this regulation was adopted in December 2017, and we are in the first reading of this law that followed in February of this year, even though the regulation came into force in January. So, you hurried slowly it's a miracle one, and thank you so much for giving it up. We put the State Inspectorate at the centre of attention, so one institution that should be protected and that should protect citizens' interests in one normal, cultural, democratic way, but also that must and must serve as a service through which to educate, warn, correct bad practices and those who are small, do not have enough capacity to follow any changes to regulations or have no knowledge and skills for that, but therefore there must be this service that will show them no such opportunities or needs. The state inspectorate has now turned into some kind of bogeyman who actually serves to intimidate people. It is not and must not be his role, nor in dictatorships. Go back to that thesis about destroying consumer associations. There are nominally more than a hundred, says the ministry 30 of them are alive, funds intended for the work of associations, for their work with consumers in three-and-a-half years have been reduced by three-and-a-half times from 2 million to slightly more than 600 thousand, and only for the education of them as an association, so without any possibility that they further transfer their knowledge to consumers. We said we had a new portal, we have a free phone. It's free since we've been screaming here that it's not normal to charge a phone call service, but that phone still only works from 10 to 14 hours, and as far as the portal is concerned, it's got a manual from which we'd have to find out all about our rights that haven't been accredited since 2015. One more question. Has the state ever done anything to determine the difference in the quality of the products sold here in Slovakia, France or Portugal? It's not. Representatives in the European Parliament had to raise the issue, engage independent laboratories and make an analysis to prove that a certain product a, b or c of three different producers is not equal in Portugal, Germany and Croatia or Slovakia. Our country has never done so, it does not know what it means to actually work for the benefit of its own citizens or consumers. Why not? What have we done now in the wake of this crisis when, say, in a situation where prices of safeguards are rampant? We have a situation with disinfectants, gloves, masks. Have we heard anything about it except maybe one news that someone was responsible for it? How is it possible that a liter of disinfection is more expensive than a liter of whiskey? Does that have anything to do with the brain? How is it possible that the things that are produced and ultimately cost one lip in our country cost 60? So that's the job of the state. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We won't give you any support. This is a law that follows the regulation, so of course we support it, but we also know how you do your job in a way that's not good. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202559	Thank you. The next debate is an individual, respected representative of Sasa Djujic, who is not there, losing his right. The next debate is Irena, a respected representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202560	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues will say briefly what is most important about this law, and in this law the emphasis is primarily on on the line of consumers and their protection and on the international on-line purchase. We know that each of us today is a consumer, when we speak in the context of this law, then older generations, our grandparents are not mostly consumers, or they are not participating in online shopping, honors the exceptions because there are always exceptions, they are usually younger generations, but we are all consumers and we all depend on what we are offered on the market and here we do not need to make a distinction between the on-line consumer and the standard consumer, so on the standard market, because in fact we need to make a sign of equality, and that is also the goal and instruments of the EU and regulation, and the aim of this law. The obligation of each Member State should, in fact, be a person who is in this case, such as the EU, to help Member States network each other, of course Croatia is also participating here and by introducing unique standards so that in one country they do not apply one standard, so when we talk not only about the line to consumers and on the line of trade but also about standard trade, and in another country to apply other rules. Also common bodies are important, above all, to detect fraud, Internet fraud that is growing rapidly, especially in modern times. And it's also a matter of prevention. So there is no prevention without the cooperation of the joint bodies. The better co-operation of joint bodies at EU level between Member States, the better prevention. And not only when it comes to the line of trade, but generally in the repression and crime and drug trafficking and drugs and alcohol and all other crimes. So, the purpose of this law is, first of all, what I said, to help each other Member States introduce uniform standards. As every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to freedom and forced and compulsory labour is prohibited, so every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must have the right to protect when on-line purchase as a consumer on the line market and this should be the meaning of this law. I don't see this law being controversial in that sense, it actually brings a lot of benefits. The only question here is that the pace of laws does not follow the pace of Internet technology or the adoption of new tools. So we can't expect the law to change at the weekly level, and right at the weekly level there are new online tools, new on-line technologies, which are used by one part of them and actually for malfeasance, for counterfeiting and for cheating customers on the online market. And that is literally at the weekly level, and also at the weekly level, we are not passing new laws that serve to prevent these phenomena, and it is impossible to say that the faster development of fraud is global, I am not talking about Croatia here, I am talking about the global Internet market than our legislation, not only our own but global legislation if we are watching and the Member States are therefore monitoring this development. It's always regrettable that first someone has to be deceived, it's almost become a rule in the world, to then develop some new technology and some better regulation and this would be a case here and it's understandable that the Internet world owns many of its dark sides and many people are actually working in the interest of making as many of us as online consumers as possible. On the other hand, there are responsible members of society, there are various agencies and institutions and legislation within the Member States that are working to prevent this. If we as consumers do not react and participate in our rights, then we ourselves are somewhat to blame for why we do not do so, then the laws are pointless. So we need to use our rights that allow us laws that cover the domain of consumer protection, and this law is one of those instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202561	Thank you. Here, on behalf of the motionary, the esteemed Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202562	Thank you very much. Here, I would like to conclude to thank the esteemed MPs, the esteemed representatives for all the observations made, for the opinions you have made regarding the final proposal of this law and to refer to several elements that have been presented, which are related to the content of the regulations that we propose for adoption. One of these topics was Article 5. That is to say, the Ministry of Economy as a body which is not explicitly mentioned in that article. Namely, as you know, the body involved in consumer protection policy, which is co-ordinated by other bodies that are sectorally responsible for individual segments of consumers such as the Ministry of Agriculture in the food segment or the Ministry of Telecommunications and HACOM in the telecommunications segment, so we are those who propose regulations that care about consumer information, their rights, co-ordinate work with associations, and by the time the State Inspectorate has been detached from the Ministry's composition, of course we have been in charge and for the implementation and supervision of the implementation of the regulations themselves, and since this is now the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, this is actually the reason why the State Inspectorate under this regulation therefore has jurisdiction to monitor the implementation and to act, in fact, within the framework of their respective competences. Furthermore, it was a telecom question, a teleoperator. I would like to remind myself that the amendments and additions of the Consumer Protection Act that came into force in August 2019 have just been made to the consumer protection system in such a way that, according to the previous regulation, it was possible for a telephone conversation to conclude a contract on telecommunications services, however, we have just made it impossible for the amendments to this Act to prevent, therefore, that in one phone conversation, in particular with persons who were not necessarily referred to the possibility by telephone to conclude a contract, so since 1 August for all contracts on services concluded by telephone, the trader is obliged to make an offer to the consumer on a permanent medium, so from which point of view is that the moment of receipt and the offer of contracts and that contract is considered to be concluded only at the moment when the time when the consumer accepts and gives its consent to the conclusion of such a contract, which is protected in the period of time of time of time of time of time when the consumer's pre-determination was made. In the framework of the ministry's competence, given that there have been a lot of words of information, on working with associations or with consultants, on how the financial support for the work of the consultant itself has been reduced, here I would just like to point out that during 2019, therefore two competitions have been opened to support the work of consumer protection associations, those who, of course, are active and who are working in this segment, are not, there are many more that are registered from organisations that are really active, there are allocated funds for 12 projects that are currently being implemented. The total amount is slightly less than a million kunas, so not 600 thousand more than that. Unfortunately, given the situation with the COVID-19 epidemic, we have been given the means that were intended for further tenders, so I must now point to the resolution of the consequences caused by this disease, but of course, we intend to further encourage the work of consumer protection associations, and in terms of the consultants themselves, I must say that the survey we conducted on 1000 respondents has shown that, 1.7% of respondents actually used the services of these consultants and, for this reason, the ministry has decided on a different mechanism of financing for consumer protection organisations and precisely through these tenders that I have previously mentioned, works with associations in a way to finance their concrete projects, and many of these projects are just being financed in a segment of smart and new technologies, i.e. digital and internet trade, which is actually a clue to this topic that we are talking about today. We've been with associations so far, or during '19. 6 cycles of education are also held in order to provide representatives or members of associations, as best as possible to advise and inform about certain consumer rights regulations. We have also established a system of attending an expert exam so that actually those people who then work further with our citizens as consumers and who give them advice, are certified and sufficiently educated to provide such advice, of course, that our consumers, or citizens, expect of them. On the other activities carried out by the ministry, I would also like to say that the web site mentioned earlier has been updated and since 30 April of last year is therefore established as a central portal connecting more than 30 institutions that are actually engaged in consumer rights and regularly publish news, educational brochures and any other publications that serve to protect or inform our citizens as consumers. We are aware that such activities should be strengthened and intensified and, of course, the intention is further continued to work on it, but I certainly think that one of the activities that this ministry has started and which it has continued to work on is precisely this stronger inter-resorial cooperation between the bodies participating in the segment of consumer rights protection. Maybe here are just a few figures, through a free consumer phone that we have available for consumers and which, yes, was opened in the time of 10-14 in '19. In the year we received 8900 calls, so to which it was answered. Through the Central Consumer Protection Information System, 2641 complaints or questions have also been received by our citizens or complaints have been forwarded to competent authorities which then sanction a proper violation of consumer rights, and in the context of the COVID crisis, we have received about 600 questions from citizens, which via the telephone, through the Central Information System. Many of these questions really refer to the topics that you highlighted, so the increase in the prices of protective masks or disinfectants, the cancellation of tourist packages, arrangements, transport, etc., and in this context I would like to note that the government has made a decision on the restriction of the prices of products that are relevant for the supply of our population and for the provision of food products and medical products in such a way that prices are returned to those that were in force at the end of January of this year and the State Inspectorate is acting on that decision in a way that sanctions those traders in which there has been an excessive increase in prices, including protection masks, disinfections that are important for this period in which we are now. Here is so much in response to your esteemed questions and remarks. And in conclusion, I'd like to say with regard to this, I see that Representative Bulj has a replica, that indeed the representatives of the government don't take your remarks seriously, and it would be really inconclusive on my part and very unprofessional to smile at it, so here's really not the case, so I guess maybe you've seen it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202563	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202564	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representatives of the Government. One question, I will no longer repeat what I said on behalf of the club about consumer insecurity and their rights is that we are all consumers in the Republic of Croatia it simply does not work. I'd ask you a question about the crown crisis means in this situation, do you have any information about how much those profiteers who, with 0.50 lipa, have collected, say, protective masks 30 times, 50 times, 100 times, do you have any information on whether it was classical profit, it was disastrous to suddenly jump not 100%, not 200 percent, is it not a market based on but it was a crisis. How much do you have on this mask, protective suits, gloves, do you have anyone being punished for that profit he's won in this crisis where the whole people are stressed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202565	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202566	Thank you very much for asking. I don't have the numbers on me since the inspectorate is actually acting under that regulation and sanctioning traders who have increased the price of margins. What we know really happened on the market is that there was an increase in prices, sometimes hundreds of percent compared to that original price and what we know the inspectorate did in a way that sanctioned such traders. I don't really know the number. I don't have it on me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202567	Thank you. Here's the deal with this. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, please the proposer's representative is shown about the applications submitted, State Secretary Natasa Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that the formulation referred to in Article 1(1). 18. which reads as follows: ‘but an administrative dispute may be initiated unless otherwise prescribed by the provisions of the law governing the conduct of the competent authority’, so that formulation is replaced by the wording which reads: ‘but judicial protection is secured’. That formulation has been amended for reasons that no administrative dispute can be initiated against certain decisions by certain competent authorities but, for example, a litigation procedure can be initiated for which the wording ‘judicial protection’ covering both proceedings is used, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202570	Amendment holder, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202571	Thank you, Vice President, we accept this amendment because we agreed to it together, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202572	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202573	The final proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national bodies contracted to implement consumer protection rules and to leave out of the strength of Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, which, during its declaration on amendments, the applicant accepted in the amended form by which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law in an amended form. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes 114 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202574	The next item is: - Final proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system under Article. 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202575	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of HS, gentlemen of the Parliament, because the lady is gone. Here's what I'd like to say very briefly is a few facts. So, we are all aware that Croatia faced an epidemic of a disease called covid-19 caused by SARS-cov-2 virus, which of course affected all aspects of life in Croatia, as well as the work of the Croatian Parliament where it had to be regulated in a different way than it was until then in order to protect health primarily and the lives of parliamentary representatives and all others participating in the meetings of HS, committees, etc. On 19 March this year, a meeting of the HS Presidency was held with all representatives' clubs, which decided on a special way of working at HS meetings to bring together the work of HS and with recommendations from the Ministry of Health, the Civil Protection Staff, and, of course, I repeat again, in order to protect the health of representatives and all others involved in the work of the plenary session and the Committee from the Coronary Virus. At that session, to remind ourselves, it was decided that the work of the Parliament would continue, that it would be done by two points each day, and that it would be a matter of taking a stand, but that in order to maintain a social distance, to prevent a health threat that two representatives from each club would be able to participate, and then there was an earthquake, so you know that we moved to the INA building and worked there for a while. Then there was a session of the Bureau held on April 14th in which it was decided that for some time, when we moved back to these rooms we would be working on such rules, but that we would approach the amendment of the Rules of Procedure to arrange the way HS works in a more even manner, so that it would not be a catcher, so to speak, that each club had two members only, but to make some proportional relationship. And then the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion on 23 April, which established the text proposing the addition of the Rules of Procedure as the basis for establishing the proposal for a supplement and was sent to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee discussed this proposal, certain comments were made on it and most of these remarks were incorporated into the final version of the proposal, and I must say a high degree of agreement. So the final proposal that you get about this point is actually accepted practically unanimously or with just 1 vote against. What's different from the way we've done it so far is that the calculation that I'm going to do is, I'm going to make it very simple because it's beautifully written in legal language, but I'm going to simplify that calculation of the club representatives that's been going on for a number of years on the occasion of determining the number of issues in the current morning. Those representatives who are not members of a representative club in accordance with this proposal shall, for the purposes of the calculation, consider all of them exceptionally to be a representative club and then apply that provision to them. National minority representatives shall exercise this right to attend the meeting in one way or another. So they have to decide whether to be representative of a national minority club in a way or to be representative of another club that is members. What is also very important, and this is that it is possible to exchange members of the club of representatives and thus has actually been made possible to all, all representatives literally 151 MPs to speak at the meeting of the assembly, of course according to the determined number of representatives who, at the same time, can attend the meeting of the assembly, taking care of the protection of the health of parliamentary representatives. Here, I would stop there and it seems to me that everything else is actually, being related, is practically the same way we've had since the beginning of this crown crisis and according to the decisions, in accordance with the decisions of the Croatian Parliament Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202576	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202577	Thank you very much. The rights that Parliamentarians have, and the obligations must not be diminished. Regardless of the social distance and the way it is deployed within the assembly, all MPs, today's technology, the prominent promoter should have the opportunity to discuss. We have no right to take the right to those who are not currently in the hall, the right to debate. That's the first one, and those who can't be there, because either the crown or I don't know or the virus needs to enable video, we have TV here, we need to give them video links. Today, some trend has become that ruling in Slavonia can have pre-election meetings with false promises, and we cannot have a county congregation in Split at the same time, we cannot have it but some mail so answer and we cannot discuss anywhere. So we just can't turn this into a dictatorship, as long as it's a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202578	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202579	Dear Representative Bulj, I have just pointed out that this proposal allows everyone to speak, all 151 MPs can participate in discussions on all points if they wish. So I don't see what the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202580	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202581	Thank you. Dear Vice President Reiner, I do not understand how all MPs can, if at some point here in the assembly there can be a certain number of representatives present at the presentation of the Government's representatives, these representatives cannot give a replica, so they cannot participate in the debate and this proposal is counter-constitutional. I know he's responding to two of the biggest parties, but he's anti-constitutional and can't mean all the MPs participate in the debate. I can't when the prime minister comes, I can't when Minister Beros comes, so I can't ask questions so not all MPs are in the same position and this is a counter-constitutional proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202582	Replication response. Dear Representative Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202583	Well, I'm obviously gonna have to do this for one club representative repeat the same thing several times, but this one, of course, is not anti-constitutional and of course I can participate. It's the institution that changes MPs, so I can participate, but at the same time for health protection, we can't all be here. As far as technology is concerned, it is theoretically possible to hold video meetings, however, in a specific case, and we are talking about a specific case, a specific assembly, concrete possibilities, at this time simply technologically, cannot be done. I'd be the first to do that if this class could be done, but it's not possible to do this class. Therefore, we found the best way for all 151 MPs to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202584	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a whole series of objections, first of all, this is a serious reduction in the rights of parliamentary representatives. Secondly, this proposal was not agreed among the clubs of MPs, he was drawn to the narrow presidency, he was not even sent to clubs, he was finalised on the Committee on the Constitution where not all clubs are represented. We didn't have a chance to talk about it the right way. Second, what do we do when the club's a proposing? So only one person can speak on behalf of the promoter, no one can discuss on behalf of that, so the applicant must not leave the session as long as the applicant is, therefore, the first thing. The second thing is that workers do not have the right to be in the assembly because of this quota, because it is already inside their party, and the possibility of a working body rapporteur to say something exists under the Rules of Procedure is not to be denied. And further, why with a better organization you didn't put eight more chairs here without any problems being possible, calculate the distance from two meters was respected that both clubs and the SDP and HDZ get four more seats and there's no problem. Why isn't there a microphone upstairs that could still have 10 people sitting up there? It's not a technologically big challenge, it's words in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202586	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202587	I'd just answer, it's interesting how so far no one's bothered when they were supposed to be two representatives from clubs, and now that they can get more representatives, everyone can change, now it's suddenly becoming a problem. Very interesting. It's obviously some other stuff, not what's said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202588	Thank you. The last replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202589	Thank you. The proposal adopted on the Committee on the Constitution was a revised proposal from the Bureau of the Parliament and removed some of the objections our opposition colleagues made. But it is true that, compared to the current situation, this proposal, which is very justifiable and correct, corresponds to two of the largest clubs because the restriction that the SDP club had was only 2 out of 29 MPs, was disproportionate. Now we're going to have 6 or 7 as much as is calculated and in that sense it's a fairer proposal and that's why we supported it. I'm going to say something about the other remarks that I agree with in part in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202590	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first was registered by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative of Grmoi Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202591	Have we already started working on the new Rules of Procedure or are we sticking to the old rules since the three HDZ colleagues are here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202592	No, I don't. Here is the representative of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and he is the Proposer. Thunderbolt, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202593	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. So, I disagree with the exposure of Vice President Reiner, who claims that at this point technologically, it is not possible to include through a video link in the debate here at HS any representative who, either because of his age, is afraid to come here to participate in the debate, because of the danger of the coronary virus, perhaps because of a poorer health situation, it is possible at this time tomorrow night to implement here, so by means of these televisions that everyone will report, not only to report and have a debate on behalf of the club but to even have a replication and after the exposure to include it exactly when they reported for replication. That's possible tomorrow. I've given it maybe already in the morning, but by evening it's possible to implement here. So technology has no problems, it has various apps from Zoom, and then it's quite possible. So don't deceive the public that it's impossible, it's possible, now it's a matter of political will whether you want to implement it or not. I once asked here to be released during my debate here on behalf of the Free Speech Club, to play over this television one video clip that explains our public administration reform. I was not allowed by the Secretary of Parliament, it's only a matter of political will. There's no problem in that. After all, Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic had a PowerPoint presentation, if you remember, and some even made fun of it, although it is the usual way for any presentation if we talk about the state budget completely justified and quite fine. So that's possible, it's a matter of political will. So, I was going to read here the remarks that our member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure made, some of the remarks that I understood were accepted, now I don't know what was accepted, but what certainly isn't good, it's not good that all MPs don't have equal rights. You say, we'll be able to rotate, but that will mean that fellow Bulj will have to give a replica, come out quickly, and I'll have to run in to replicate to the prime minister. Why can't I be in another hall or anywhere, sign up for a replica and maybe video link comes up, and especially here is our representative of Ines Strenja, who is in a worse health condition in fear that she might not catch an infection, why wouldn't she also be president of the Health Committee on some issues here be able to include and hold a debate on behalf of the club, even replicate or anything else. So there are no technological and technical obstacles to it, it's only your political will. It is as you claim all the time that it is not possible to implement an electronic or correspondence vote. It is possible, it is true that the electronic vote has one EU country and that it is something that is technological news, but the correspondence vote has everything. Bavaria has now held local elections exclusively by a letter vote. So she's always had the possibility of a letter vote, now it was only possible to vote by letter, you couldn't come to the polls. And you'll argue all the time that it's not possible, and it's possible. The second thing is that you don't have the political will to do it and what are you going to do? As you put us MPs in an unequal position here, so you'll have the same elderly, the sick, the whole time you've told them, be at home, stay home, now you'll call them in polling stations. Wait in line, put on cream, it's going to be 7. Uh, put on some cream, bikinis, and wait in line for you to go to the polls to vote and you'll risk their health. That's what you say you're afraid of, but we're not afraid of choices, I'm looking for elections right now, so elections are needed as soon as possible, but you're the ones who scared us all, you've been scaring us all this time, you're not supposed to get out of the house, all the prisons, the strict quarantine, oh, good polls, let's go to the election right now, let's go to the election and do it in the 7th month. And I'll remind you here, although politically pragmatic to MOST was after you brought down Prime Minister Oreshkovic, we had a meeting of the club, Professor. Podolnjak said, no democratic country is going to the summer elections and we must not do so even though it is politically pragmatic for us. And that suits you, but we weren't watching our ratings, but we were looking at the best for young Croatian democracy, but you're constantly going against democratic, democratic havens, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going against what's actually constitutional right, you're being represented and the Croatian people. He's got something to say to my colleague Bull, he hasn't said everything he thinks today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202594	I think it's a shame that my colleague Bolt broke up when it went so well, he actually got fed up, that's all. He compared a number of situations where technology can be used and it would be the order to be used when it is now here, we see that public administration, everything can be done online, so it can also be possible in this way to enable our representatives who are in danger groups or who are not able to be able to enable video-linking here reporting, replication and I think it would be a very significant shift because the parliamentary representative also has a constitutional obligation, the Assembly and the citizens' obligation to be active, to report and to perform all obligations, but we have made it impossible for him because of the social distance or physical distances for MPs to participate. We have to use these instruments, however, and I would, too, be fed up, not this first blow to the Rules of Procedure. This House will be remembered as a Parliament that reduced the right of speech to parliamentarians, that was in March 2018, so it's been 2 years. It was the longest debate until then, it lasted all day and all night, then, if you can remember, when certain things had been abolished that had been right for MPs who chose the people to open certain topics through certain breaks or what had already been called. So you've already alienated the lawyers' rights without any kind of threat, some kind of crisis, some sort of state of emergency, so simply most of it is then, i.e. both parties, I think both HDZ and SDP... You did wake up, but in the end you voted me for this proposal, you can't,.../incomprehensible/... or you didn't, something you were... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Some combination is similar to the Constitutional Court and the HRT, it was some sort of, but Branko Bačić could explain better what that game was played under the table. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But, mostly, you stayed up that night, I remember coming with the patches here because you kept that story basically, that point to run in the middle of the night. But, really, we're at the end of the term. No matter when there's an election, whether there's gonna be a bikini election or there's gonna be a bathing election or there's gonna be, it's probably gonna be a bikini election, so we'll all be in bikinis there on, waiting lines, regardless of the crown, everything's gonna be okay. Of course, in my down county, the constituency will be waiting for trucks, buses, peddlers, the voters will be driven to the electorate and they're dead and they'll live, it'll be such a time, so there won't be much crisis at that moment and not all will die of the crown, that, in that time will stop the crown. I believe democracy must not be thrown under the feet because freedom of speech, which is in democracy, why do people fight for freedom? For freedom of speech, freedom of correspondence, speech, expression of different attitudes, and this Parliament did not do so well that for the chairmanship of this Mr. Jandrokovic, this Assembly as a Parliament that was for freedom of speech, and it tried to contradict us here even something that was from those times of the totalitarian communist regime, it is an electronic monitoring, i.e. Through the mobile tracking of our citizens, it is in collaboration I think my colleague Bačić better explained it, I guess Kopal, Bozinović has experience from the former system, and Plenkovic accepted it. I don't believe those people who have such intentions. I don't think so. I believe that in the future, the right of speech will be returned to the parliamentary deputies because the people have chosen them to talk about it. Otherwise, the trend is, here's Split-Dalmatia County is tomorrow, we have no debate, it sent an email, you can be in favour or against. And we have very key questions. So for or against, so who, Mao Tse Tung would envy in a way, here's counterpart Sanader and club president, I'm... Most, HDZ, I think that this Mao Tse Tung would be amazed at how you want to get past points that have any meaning at all, are neither measures nor anything, but there are many more important discussions that should not be discussed or asked questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202595	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Željko Reiner. Excuse me, okay. Did you mean on behalf of the promoter or something? On behalf of the promoter, did you want to? Here, you won't. You're giving up? Okay. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202596	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Here, I'd just briefly look back at everything we've heard so far, as suggested by the Rules of Procedure's supplement. In fact, I think that we should all be happy together because the Parliament has done pretty well and organized in these conditions that we've never had and we've worked well under these conditions. What I must point out as a kind of replica, to colleagues who have said here that there are fewer who will now have fewer representatives in the club according to the new proposal in the Assembly. Then, as counterpart Bauk said, the two biggest parties and SDP and HDZ should be dissatisfied all this time because we actually had the same number of representatives, by 2, each club, and in this way we can say that this whole time we were somehow damaged because we are being represented by the club most. However, I think this is not the time when we have to talk this way, and I was first of all convinced that, most of all, the Presidency had reached an agreement on how we will work during these situations, and I also confirmed this thinking because the majority of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system accepted this proposal. Of course, we're talking, this is where we talked from fellow Bulls and I don't know if he's a colleague of Grumoja, it seems to me that he's talking about democracy and violation of rights. Democracy is a wonderful thing. When we talk about democracy, of course it involves different opinions, we don't have to agree at all, but also democracy implies that everyone has to accept the decision of the majority and the agreement that most have reached, and I think that this agreement that we have reached on the addition of the Rules of Procedure to such exceptional, extraordinary situations as this is caused by the coronary virus, however appropriate to this situation. I think that this way of working as it is proposed is good, it is good that we will, first of all, regulate it to the Rules of Procedure, so that there would be no future controversy as to whether or not, because it is only a deal, it is not determined by the Rules of Procedure, what opportunities we have had to hear from certain representatives of the objection, and therefore I think it is a good idea to arrange it for the Rules of Procedure. I would not say in detail everything that has been proposed to these supplements because I have said so, not to repeat myself, but here again, I would like to say that I believe that this proposal, this kind of representation of representatives by all clubs, and also those who are not at the club, is good and will really allow everyone together in these extraordinary situations to still work in a democratic way and that each of us brings out the position of his club, but also has a chance to show his personal position as a representative. Here, thank you very much. The HDZ advocates' club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202597	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, he is missing. He's losing his right. And on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the next speaker is the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202598	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that in the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS there were no provisions that would provide for the Croatian Parliament to act in the situation of an epidemic, a pandemic of infectious disease. It's a fact. For this we bear the responsibility of all, personally at a time when I proposed the current text of the Rules of Procedure, which was later changed, I did not think at all that such a possibility might happen. That's a fact. It is also a fact that in a situation where unforeseen circumstances occur, we must react to ensure that their consequences, if not already prevented, are reduced to the least possible measure. And as if the epidemic wasn't enough, HS was, the HS building died in an earthquake, and apart from having to limit the number of people in the assembly, we had to move. Of course, the solution that was proposed, which was adopted and finally agreed, we had objections. We had because what seemed justified to us at first glance, that each club represented two MPs, basically not just and not just for a very simple reason. Because it doesn't reflect simply doesn't reflect the election result. In this context, we from the SDP Representatives Club welcome these changes. First, because it will respect the fact of the election result, but second and equally important, because we will bring HS's work into the business frameworks. And the fact is, we don't have to run away from it, so far, we haven't been working on the Rules of Procedure. Now that we adopt this, when this comes into effect, the presidency of HS will decide that the measures of its own that need to be conducted in such a manner have taken place, let us call them limited conditions and we will act again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Is this in accordance with the Constitution? I believe that, I believe, it is because every MP will be enabled and I am glad that this suggestion has been accepted at the session of the Constitution Committee, even if it has been by e-mail, because it will allow each representative to participate in the debate on each item of the agenda and it is extremely important because we are all equal here, we are all equal, we all have to be in the same position on certain topics to be discussed. However, he is also right, colleague Beus Richembergh. I deliberately intervened on the situation where my colleague Reiner is present here, although there are two other members of the HDZ Club, because as provided for in the proposal that we have referred to the procedure, such a situation would not be possible. He'd be counting on the quota. If everyone were here, let's call them that, Mr. Rainer's allowed representatives of the HDZ Club would be excess, and that's, you'll agree, wrong. So here we are, my colleague Bauk and I have agreed, and we have referred to this proposal an amendment that would apply to that very thing. If the representatives of a particular club had proposed an act or representatives themselves, because the club proposed an act or a working body of HS, the act would not have been considered, as is the case with respect to the case. Vice-President or President of the Parliament who runs the session. I believe that we have plenty of room for this in the hall because these MPs would not necessarily have to sit in their place which is not namedly defined right now but could be sitting where the proposing representatives would normally sit if necessary because of the place in the hall. Here I will conclude on this proposal of the Rules of Procedure for which, as I said, the SDP's Club of Representatives will vote and support it because we consider it progressing in relation to current practice. And I'm just going to ask that one practice be changed, and that's the work of the board. The Croatian Parliament of course, while we were sitting in INA's building couldn't secure the work of the board because there was simply no spatial conditions there. However, now that we have returned to the HS building, it is clear that here, on the one hand, there are halls in which a board meeting can be ensured, and that we are not putting agents at risk, who will meet neither professional services nor media representatives, if they wish to attend. And also, if you say for the HS session that there are no technical conditions for it to be held at a video conference, then it certainly exists for committee sessions. If for no other reason, then to ensure that the public sees what is happening in the legislative process, but also, because I, as an agent, see how difficult it is for me to prepare for a particular debate on a particular agenda point when I cannot speak to a proposing representative before the meeting, which we did at committee meetings. Here, for example, today when we discussed intervention measures in the Executive Act, I believe that the committee would be a much more appropriate place for us to talk to ministry representatives about whether the law should write "propose the opening of a bankruptcy procedure" or "open the bankruptcy procedure". And then we could clear up this situation and probably come up with some kind of solution together that would be good for everyone. The committees are an important part of the legislative process. By e-mailing them, we took away their role. I will repeat once again, we support this, but we ask that from next week, we appeal that since next week, the work of the Parliament is still as normal as it is, at least in this section of the Committee's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202599	Thank you. Here on behalf of the proposer. .../incomprehensible/... so I said on behalf of the motionary, the esteemed Agent Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202600	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I found myself invited to this presentation by my colleagues to say that I agree with him and that I think we can do committee sessions, I can talk about the Constitution Committee, but it seems to me that most of the other committees are about the same number, to find a moduso that maintains social distance, so that we can really be at least 2 meters away from each other, and in vivo, so to speak, let's say, keep these sessions and I think there are halls that make it possible. But, referring immediately to that, there were talks about things that were completely incomparable. So I think it's important, if nothing, then because of those records that remain, is comparing one presentation of PowerPoint to a video conference between 151 people. It's a comparison of apples and billiard balls. They're round each other, but it's completely different technology, it's completely different, it's really the basis of such communication, it's one-way communication, it's a display of PowerPoint, so those who said it obviously have no idea what PowerPoint is, and what he saw a conference with 151 participants. It's not, I repeat, the same video conference with 20 participants and 151 participants. However, what I must admit to me in some way upset me and saddened me to hear from a colleague here, that he said that he did not know what was built on by the remarks of a member of the board, but he did very much comment on the text in front of him. Well, now, he had the text of that board member, so apparently that's where he didn't even read this proposal from the Rules of Procedure on the addition of the HS Rules of Procedure. And it's actually worrying that people come here, talking, and they haven't even read the text they're talking about, and since I'm going to use a few more seconds just, I don't want all the time, there's also some stories, making fun of it if, yes, I don't know, theoretically, obviously they know better than others, ruling, when there's going to be elections, but in any case, about some bikini choices and I don't know what, I just want to remind myself, four years ago they were teaching lists, it seems to me either to the Great Lady or to St. The deadline, therefore, was either 15.8 or 16.8. It was an election. So there was summer and there was still elections, no one was surprised, so I don't see why it should be surprised at all, and when there are elections, whether they're going to be in 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. I mean, it's theoretically even the 6th possible, but, but it's probably better known by those who talked about it than those who, who should decide on it, and that's the majority of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202601	Thank you. We have two replicas. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. The fact is that this is the circumstance in which none of us wanted to be, none of us expected it to be and the fact is that there were certain discrepancies in the management of procedures and in many situations, including the search for the right path. I'm glad that now with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we're actually finding that right path and that this way through a debate where we're all going to try to find a common language together, we're defining in which direction that right path should be. Keeping committee meetings, as you said, in vivo is definitely the right step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202603	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202604	Thank you, Vice President. I listened to you at the club, and I have to say that I'm not comfortable saying that one academic doesn't understand anything, but you really don't understand anything. I didn't mix pears and apples, I didn't compare the PowerPoint presentation with a big conference call, I was talking about political will. Since this HS does not have the will to digitize, and we, the respected Academyman Reiner, would not include all MPs through the video link, so it would not be one mass video conference, as you claim, but we would only be representatives who can't participate here and be physically present, and that's what the older ones are and I've said it nicely, but you're obviously sitting in the ears, including through a video call. I hope you understand me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202605	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In any case, we are changing the Rules of Procedure for the reasons that exceptional circumstances have arisen under the conditions of the world pandemic and the declaration of an epidemic of coronaryvirus in Croatia. And this as a parliament, given the measures prescribed by the National Staff, has led us to the situation that we must change the way we work, respect these measures and thus adapt the work of the Parliament to these new circumstances. In this sense, there was an agreement that had largely discriminated against members of the HDZ Club, which we had not even objected to. We, as a club and in the fact that there are 55 members of the club, 55 members of the club, would continue to be, if it were not for the chairmanship, whether coming from the ruling or from the opposition lines, having problems with the representatives of the opposition because what we were doing and acting on the basis of the agreement at the level of the Presidency of the Parliament, was not a business provision and then anyone could have acted and sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure, which was not a valid answer. Therefore, I believe that this is okay and that the only suspension is, the only dissuasion of a parliamentary representative is in relation to the current Rules of Procedure, because there is only no possibility of giving a replica to the presentation of the motionor or his fellow representative in the individual debate. Anything else that was available to him earlier, it is, before this, these extraordinary circumstances, available to him now. But we are obviously very close to replicas, which is okay, legitimately, I welcome, but I would also like to say that many parliaments, including European parliaments, but many parliaments in Europe, do not at all have the institution of replication or the possibility of replicating fellow MPs. Here whoever wants to be able to participate in the debate, individually, and only those currently in the assembly, will not be able to replicate, while outside, outside the assembly. Another thing I also wanted to say, and the circumstances of holding the election in summer. I would remind us that Croatia, sovereign and independent, held 2nd elections on 2nd August. In my opinion, August 2nd is a pretty summer tourist season and when it's warm and how I don't remember, and I remember because I was in that campaign, we didn't come to the polls in our swimsuits and we didn't have any creams. Not only that, but HS works until July 15th, I didn't see any parliamentary representatives, and in particular, colleagues from MOST came to the meeting room in their swimsuits, nor were they necessary, I don't know which creams and protective factors to keep them from burning. So, another thing. I don't see where the month is September less than June, for example, because calendarly, the summer is only 10 days in June, and in September 23 days. Therefore, if we can hold 11 June, 11 September elections, for me this summer is the same as, for example, 15, 18 July or 28 June or any, or 20 September. Therefore, this is not about the fact that the elections are held at all costs but about the elections being held when the conditions are met, so that we don't get into a situation that we can't really hold them and then enter into a variant that the Constitution has really assumed, I think it's an art. 77. The constitution, but then it changes the political picture in Croatia, and when deciding, when proposing legislation, I could do it more, but I don't have enough time. I therefore believe that it is good because of the situation that will arise in Croatia, both economically and socially, after and through this year, that we have a government that will confirm its legitimacy in democratic elections and that, with a month away from elections, democratic, multi-party elections, it will have greater legitimacy to implement reforms and everything that is ahead of us. Much more than the government would have at the end of the term of office or perhaps also a technical government. That is why it is good that these elections are held, we are not asking them to be maintained, and especially not to be maintained in conditions that are not suitable for a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202607	Thank you. We have three replicas. First respected representative of the Bauk. He's retreating. The second is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202608	So, colleague Bacic, when I was talking about the election, I'm not against the election. I want elections as soon as possible, but I want a letter, at least a letter vote. If you don't want to do it electronically, and you could have introduced it, and when I talked about the bikini election and how people were going to rub themselves with creams, it's true, we went to the election and last time at 9. I mean, it's not as hot as 7:00, but it's hot in the 9th month. But then it wasn't, my colleague Bacic's social distance. I'm not the one who said that people are going to rub themselves because there's going to be lines in the polls because they can't all be meaning inside and it can't be as crowded as it was, but there's got to be a space and people are going to wait long at 7 months. to exercise their electoral right. They're gonna be waiting for older people, colleague Bačić, who you've been scaring all this time, and now you're gonna call them to polling stations, and I say, put in a letter vote, let's go to tomorrow's election, as far as I'm concerned, let's just break up, here, let's raise my hand now, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202609	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you're hearing very well, but you don't want to hear it on purpose, so you answer as it suits you. I don't know where it came from at MOST, to you or to anyone else, that elections will be held during the necessity of the first measure of social distance. I didn't hear anyone say that. If you heard one of the rulings say that, then okay, then I apologize. So, no one, we argue that elections will be made when epidemiological conditions are created for this, which means that then they will prescribe a way to conduct these choices. And I think in such conditions it's good to organise and conduct elections. And as for the summer period, yes, we're right... We submitted the lists for parliamentary elections and candidate lists, had to submit by 13 August, and the campaign began at St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Time 16 August 2016 in the middle of summer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202611	Time. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202612	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, the elections are a democratic process, and it would have been a challenge, because the people were deceived, three years ago the people were defrauded, simply by this trade coalition that led Croatia to you know that 6% of the GDP is from our evicted people and we have witnessed that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. So it wasn't a problem, the elections were already tribals, but you say when it isn't, when the virus is not walking, when you order it because we have now during the virus and the non-work week because Sundays the virus doesn't work, he's resting on Sundays, and we're asking for it to be a non-stop week, it's much more correct for the virus, that he doesn't know when it's coming, I think it would be correct to explain to the public how you're going to know, that now they're wasting elections within 60 days, the triba will be held by the elections, you want to know exactly what day they won't be making choices as you know that during the virus, Sundays not working, the virus doesn't work on Sundays work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202613	Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Bulj, thanks to the coalition you mention in Croatia, political stability has been achieved over the past 3 years, this political stability has produced economic stability, then produced growth of the economy, GDP growth, reduction of employees, increase in the number of employees, that is... government budget surplus, raising Croatia to investment rating, reduced interest, and then a clear increase in economic income, increased wages, pensions, social benefits, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, yours, yours, your grief that this coalition has succeeded is one story that I do not want to repeat here now, but that coalition has allowed Croatia in this difficult crisis, given that it has settled its public finances and has strengthened itself, can be relatively better than it was when it was also one crisis in 2008, I say, with such a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202615	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I said in the replica, this proposal is a revised proposal from the Parliament Presidency and our club will support it. The highest quality in this proposal is seen in relation to not the current Rules of Procedure because technically, compared to the current Rules of Procedure, this is a certain reduction of the rights of MPs, but in relation to what is now being implemented, this is, at least for the SDP Club, a significant relief of normal work in HS because instead of having, I think 6% of the representatives who are allowed to attend the session, unlike, some other clubs where 66% can do so, we will get an equal share of all other club representatives so that we can participate in the debate and what is actually the only thing that has been significantly denied us, the possibility of replicating to the representative who, for the opposition MPs, is much more significant than for the ruling majority. In contrast, the situation so far has been totally unacceptable to us and has made it very difficult for us to work in HS to the level that we have been thinking that if this continues, we come to the hall and they have to take us out. So we were willing to even make an incident to simply point to this illogicality, but here, fortunately, the situation is such that we will be able to work normally or more normally under these circumstances. The principle relating therefore to the determination of the number of representatives will, as well as to the current morning and after this repair of the rotations, be the possibility that all the representatives, of course, will be involved in the individual debate, taking account of the number of representatives of the individual club at the moment in the Chamber, have also removed those objections concerning the possible non-constitution of the Rules of Procedure's proposal. What he did again adds one absurdity to the whole situation, now there are four of us in the hall and fellow Reiner would be 5, so there's no epidemiological threat if there were three other representatives of a small club, to be us in Hall 7. So there was an absurd situation there in INA's building that only two present in the hall were colleagues of the coat of arms and it seems to me that it was Maras and I couldn't get into the empty room because what was somewhere in the corner was, it was a little absurd for us both in some way and humiliating. I was even thinking of using the word that we turned the assembly into a republican conference of the Socialist Union of the working people of Croatia in which all such groups were represented equally regardless of the support among citizens. Therefore, it is only for this reason that they would support this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I assume that, following the adoption and entry into force of this Rules of Procedure, the presidency of the HS, as these provisions now require, will decide to apply Article. 293a. What our representatives or representatives in Parliament's presidency are going to require is that these measures, which I think should exclude the possibility of written working bodies meetings because it is not an epidemiological situation such that they cannot be implemented, be video-conferencing, which I think should be the future and regular way of working of parliamentary committees, even when we come to normal situations that this happens on Mondays and Tuesdays, then Parliament's working bodies would get their true role because even then, if they are held live during the plenary session, they are generally neither so important nor so much more visited and the representatives actually just come to deposit voice and there is no big debate. Also, I am inclined to prescribe to the Rules of Procedure the possibility of an electronic vote on, for the session of the Assembly, first of all, that fellow Bačić, who is not now relieved, would not have to count as many as there are on Fridays, because, I suppose, they would also be able to define it, can be done electronically in a way that, for the points of the agenda of a certain hour, to make public how a representative voted, and then 120 minutes, let's say that the representative to whom he voted, can change that vote, I think there is also in the EU Parliament. And in that case, there would be no problem with the credibility of the result of the vote, it would facilitate the functioning of the Parliament in this, allowing those who cannot attend the session because of their health status and that, I think, I would apologize for these 3 seconds, that I do not have to report finally on behalf of the club, so that it is possible that in this situation a single representative, if he was given a measure of self-insulation or if he was infected, would allow him to send his debate which would publish the video, but not to be direct. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202617	Final? Nothing. Then we exhausted the argument with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. for amendments and votes at 12 o'clock. Session interrupted at 1910 hours. Here's a good morning, dear colleagues. We'll continue our work. We'll discuss the amendments today. Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure on the Completion of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, the honourable representative Željko Reiner, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202619	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was unanimous with 11 votes "for", no one was against it, accepted the SDP amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202620	Okay, then it becomes part of the proposed Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202621	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] Operation Flash of Croatian military and regular forces has freed occupied areas of western Slavonia. With a moment of silence, we will honor twelve Croatian directors who were killed in a muscly ambush in Borovo Selo on May 2, 1991, performing their duty with honor. A moment of silence, may they have eternal glory, and thank them. Before we go to the vote, I saw a colleague of Petrova answer. Yes, yes, I suggest that as last time and before last we make the first space for those who would like to explain why they want a break and then if you agree to continue voting afterwards. First is colleague Petrov, colleague Zekanovic... Then what? Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202622	Mr. President, since there's no pause, we won't have a break and go out then... If someone wanted to say something, use those two minutes before the point they're talking about, it would be more in the spirit of parliamentaryism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202623	You got it. That's good. That's not the problem either. So, if you agree that we're not taking a break, then this is quite a good suggestion. So, fellow Petrov, you want for the first point then? ... Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202624	I respect MP Bauk's proposal, but since I have a few points to look at, then I can't choose, so I'd like to take advantage of the possibility at first, if it will continue Can you do that? Call, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club because I want to invite absolutely all parliamentary representatives to vote for and support these proposals that MOST has proposed to fight the consequences of the coronary epidemic. [[/Intruder: Here you go, yes.]] As far as these proposals are concerned, I think the public needs to know what's being voted on today, who's going to be in favour and who's going to be against these proposals. I think the public needs to know who really wants to change, and that wants to go on as usual. And these suggestions that I'm going to give you are the beginning of that story about a paradigm change. In turn, we proposed: moratorium to the executive procedures while the pandemic of COVID disease is going on, the write-off of all tax obligations during the epidemic and 90 days after the end of the epidemic, the collection of VAT on paid bills forever, the suspension of membership fees for HGK and the tourist community, the abolition of the tax on profits forever, the introduction of a relief for reinvested profits, the extension of the right to maternity and maternity support. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the good part of these proposals you're going to vote on today is the beginning of those real changes that people are asking us to do. And I think it's time to show who from these assembly benches really wants a real change for Croatia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202625	Okay. Who's in the middle of this right now? He's a colleague of Zekanovic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202626	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a whole set of laws that are to encourage the crown by a crisis and I think there are several legal proposals that are right and we will support them. However, the same thing that my colleague pointed out earlier, we want these measures to be permanent, permanent, and not just current, because we believe that this corona crisis must and can be used for one reset system, for a new start, and that everything that we will well include today, i.e. vote, that these measures must be permanently included in Croatian legislation. Here, first of all, I mean the problem of the accomplished, but here I have to point out another problem which, a legal proposal that has not seen the light of day, and Croatian sovereigns have pointed out many times. And it's about the electronic vote. Since it is said that there will soon be parliamentary elections, i.e. that in 15 days and the Croatian Parliament will be disbanded, I appeal for the safety of the citizens due to the infection, possible coronavirus infections to be quickly introduced by an electronic vote, i.e. to allow every Croatian citizen no matter where they vote safely. We must not risk human health, as has been risked, for example. for internal elections in HDZ not later than the introduction of measures of the Civil Protection Staff. So, the electronic vote is necessary today for health reasons, but I must also point out that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia no matter where he is, regardless of the state of health, of course, here I mean the Croatian diaspora, can vote in one fair way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202627	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202628	I'm looking for a break instead, on behalf of the Club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to look back at a series of laws relating to the crown crisis. It is about the fact that employers are also included, helping them, the workers of the minimum wager, however, no one thinks about the pensioners. In that sense, they have been done neatly over the past month, those who have had these problems, directly through HZMO. Furthermore, they're victims. Please, this is today an opportunity to support the fact that all pensioners who receive pensions up to 1000 kuna are paid an allowance during the 500 kuna crisis, 99,000 pensioners receive up to 500 kuna monthly pensions. This is unbearable to them, my people are insufferable. This crisis affects everyone according to this and by the Constitution and by everything we have to be human and solid with them. Furthermore, I call on the government, two weeks ago I searched here, I repeat, and the public to hear we did a survey, 95% of the citizens support the abolished Civil Protection Crisis, 70% of the county has no disease, what has these single-digit numbers, the Swedish model has shown that a better model of combating an epidemic, give in to maximum measures because Croatia can't use, endure if we are 5 and 6 months in this economic situation we won't be able to recover and more people will die of regular diseases and therefore poverty than it will be, immunity will decline, and then when normal flu will be everything. Therefore, I repeat, put an end to the crisis headquarters immediately because it has turned, it has become the customized electoral headquarters of this ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-29-0.u202629	Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, then we'll go with the vote. The first is today's final proposal of the Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, which the applicant accepted and became an integral part of the final proposal for the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I just want to say that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system unanimously accepted this draft Rules of Procedure, and I stress that it is in accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure require half the majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We know the electronics vote those who are here, and I'm going to ask the rest. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? We're waiting for the results. We need to do a little stalking like last time. There's a gallery waiting, so I'm just asking that, then, here's the results. So, a total of 111 MPs and MPs voted, 95 were for, 3 abstentions and 13 against and I find that most votes were brought by the Rules of Procedure on the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The report on the effectiveness of management and availability of football stadiums and playgrounds owned by units of local self-government is submitted by the State Audit Office. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the effectiveness of management and availability of football stadiums and playgrounds owned by local self-government units is accepted." Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the vote is 110 for, 9 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
