ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5335	Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, through his favorite newsletter called Jutarnji list, informed the Croatian public that a tax on real estate will not be abolished in the coming year. The day after the DORH indicted the leaders of former company Agrokor headed by Ivica Todorovic. What is the link between the leaders of Agrokor, Minister Maric, the Morning List, the EPH now the Hanza Media and the judiciary? They have one common denominator, and this wealth is at the expense of impoverishing Croatian citizens i.e. high taxes on the financing of corruption. Minister Maric is a synonym abuse without any consequences, a man whose career starts at Sanader's Ministry of Finance in time at which the ministry favours Todorovic. After a change of hair then, State Secretary Maric becomes director in Agrokor. From that time he owns a Rolex watch whose value is the average annual salary in Croatia. Another former minister, Goran Maric, told the beginning of the Agrokor affair that Ivica Todorovic had not paid rent to the Croatian state for 20 years for the island of Smokvica. This debt to Croatia is €200 million in 2017. How is it possible that all these years until 2017. Croatia did business with Agrokor, gave him 1 kuna-owned companies, and this same Todoric, we only have so much debt to the state on one basis. Furthermore, in March 2017 The international agency Moodys has publicly announced that Agrokor has falsified the balance sheets. In the period from 2012, the executive director in Agrokor was just Zdravko Marić. The same Zdravko Maric, with other members of the government, was one of the creators of the Law on Extraordinary Administration, where a group of people called the Borg so made provisions of the law that after the law was passed, the same group could earn billions of kuna. That's where we get to the DORH and the judiciary. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Agrokor doesn't exist as a theme. In order to spread the story of Agrokor, it would take five hours, not five minutes. We all know that the main source of liquidity in Croatia was Agrokor, as the leader of the import lobby and the destruction of Croatian agriculture also called Agrokor, and that this has already been mentioned so great that the judiciary had to react just as the tax administration did. The fact that the judiciary has not responded is evidence that they are in the system of corruption. In Croatia, there is something called USKOK, a special judicial body for organised crime, what the USKOK means is it deals with sophisticated complex crime, and DORH deals for example. travel orders, which is considered adjudicated crime. You see, we're dealing with travel orders and DORH Agrokor. That's why our investigation lasts 3 years. And we had a case held in the United States for Bernard Madoff where it was a 50-billion-dollar fraud, a very sophisticated financial crime, and the U.S. judiciary ended the affair within six months, and he was sentenced to 150. Prison. Now let's look at the injustice that exists in Croatia. Ivica Todorovic is still sitting in a castle visible from almost all sides of the City of Zagreb. The castle was granted a building permit as a hotel, meaning it had benefits such as VAT deductions and recognised costs for the investor. But you can't rent a room in Todorovic's castle. That's where he and his family live. At the same time, there is another family in Croatia that is not named Todorovic, who has not hired children of politicians and has not been the treasure of a deep communist state. This is the Cvetkovic family from Zagreb's Bukovac, who at one point fell into financial problems and did not pay two credit wars, the ruthless Croatian judiciary executed the Cvetkovic family, and a family with 5 children with the help of special police units on the road, and here we come to the ultimate mafia, justice and Jutarnji list. The morning paper as well as the vast majority of the mainstream media in Croatia has written about Agrodor and Ivica Todorovic with awe and exclusive in superlatives. In the same way they wrote about Sanader, Mesic, Josipovic, as they do now about Plenkovic. Of course, it has its price. These media in Croatia do not live on their work, sold copies or show ratings, but the political summit has made different methods of bringing money to obedient media, which is the most difficult form of corruption and the most dangerous situation for the democratic order. If the situation is added to the judiciary in which Vladimir Seks's godfather is the President of the Constitutional Court of Separovic, the President of the Sess Supreme Court who forgot to report the revenue from Agrokor in the amount of EUR half a million, and the President of the County Court in Zagreb, Turudic, who fled from police in a car worth EUR 150,000, then the picture is rounded up in which we can conclude that there are two Croatians. One that's ruining and filling the state's register and another ruling unlustrated who's robbing that register. Any indictment in the case of Agrokor, which does not include finance ministers, tax administration chiefs, USKOK chiefs and police chiefs from that period, is manipulative because those persons had to be familiar with corruption in Agrokor. Yesterday's arrests at the state-owned company Janaf have been set up in such a way as not to discuss Plenkovic's responsibility in the Borg case, and Maric's responsibility in the Agrokor case. When alleged anti-corruption measures are based not on the rule of law and the determination of facts but on the current political interests, then they are manipulative and carved plays from which Croatian citizens will not be compensated for estranged money Justice and rule of law have no alternative. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5406	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5407	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am speaking to you with the latest statements of Mr. Milorad Pupovac, the newly appointed president of SNV, who said several disturbing statements on 12.9., announced several disturbing acts that I was as a Croatian defender who had experienced the horrors of the war in the five-year duration of deep distress and as all of my friends also Croatian defenders because the current large-scale offensive, Chetism in the fight for its positions in the field of the Republic of Croatia, however we turn our heads from it, this shows windy performances of both Mr. Pupovac and all those who have extended these ideas in recent years, and they have culminated here somehow with a complete revision of the character of the Homeland Defence War because unfortunately, they are in the ruling majority, is there today, they announced that 21.9. who took their victims, you are looking at the Korsgrelnski bridge, where they have actually tried to the 13th century. Now, the very fact that someone is sorry for their dead so that they are enemy soldiers, part of the family, is certainly a great sadness and every normal man, civilized, cultural, compassionate can express a great understanding that family and loved ones commemorate the victims of their loved ones in a circle where they are allowed. However esteemed dear friends, the Croatian public, fellow defenders of Karlovac, heroes, liberators, we club of Croatian sovereigns will be with you, we oppose you, we are deeply upset and we express our revolution and resistance to the emergence of the rescribing of this society, the relativation of large-serb crimes, the Chetism in Croatia in a way that wants to establish a new spoon cemetery on the Koran bridge. Let them and all who have needs mourn for the dead, their loved ones, but in this Croatian public should not involve both Croatian authorities at local and state level, political or police, have to ban such proceedings, such gatherings because they are in themselves destructive to this Croatian society because they equate the aggressor and sacrifice and long-term send a message, children, radicalize young Serbs, radicalise the Serb community again, they continuously create a sense of danger, artificial feeling of the threat of Serbs, it makes Milorad Pupovac and his society very skillfully, in this way saying, the message is next not only in Vukovar at the cemetery of the spoons, not only in the hills around the sun, not only in Karlovac on that bridge, in all places they are recently relativating, on the one hand we emulate their victims in the Homeland Defence War, on the other hand they have the latter and the Croatian parliaments, which have the local parliaments in the other side of S. The victims of our countrymen who fought for their country, for their faith, defending their hearths, and they died by their hands, what? Croatian aggressors of Ustasha forces who aggressively went to destroy our hearths. So what message is being sent today 30 years after the Homeland War? We have again one side of the endangered Serbs, on the other side of the vampire Ustasha and the kleronist who are, what? We Croatian defenders mean nationalists, such aggressors in their own country, to whom does this belong? Is that the thesis in civil war, revitalization? We must resist such policy, I call on Croatia to respond, to resist the Koran Bridge 21.9., thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5408	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that IDS on behalf of which they will speak respected representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5439	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the IDS Club, as well as citizens of Istria County, I would like to express strong opposition from this place to the MUP's announcement of the abolition of police affairs in Buzet and Bujam, which would in that case become the only outposts of police stations in Pazin and Umag. The news is that it has literally shocked the people of Buzet and Buja, who were also reacted to by the mayors of these two Istrian cities and the Istrian mayor by the protest letters addressed to the MUP Republic and the police directorate. I want to say openly here that it is our common position that under the supposed rationalization of the state apparatus, citizens are once again trying to make a decision that will ultimately compromise the public service standards reached, and in this case also undermine the sense of public security. It should be pointed out here that the towns of Buzet and Buje are located in the border area, and their 2 stations cover the entire Croatian state border in the Istrian county. I remind you that this is the most developed tourist county, so such a move can also significantly endanger the safety of many guests who live here. The inevitable fact is that the area of these two police stations is passing illegal migrant routes. However, thanks to the presence and quality of police stations there, the attempt of illegal crossings is largely prevented, and citizens almost do not feel the presence of illegal migrants in their territory. The situation is that by abolishing police stations, I'm afraid it's very easy to change. As I learn from the mayors Buzet and Buje, the abolition of stations in their cities is explained to them by the desire of the MUP and the directorate of the police for a rational way of working, which should not be questioned by the current police operation. It would reportedly even increase the number of police officers on the ground, and only the management structure, the chiefs with assistants and shift heads would be reduced. But the very fact that it is also announced and that the outposts would be open exclusively in the morning, and not throughout the day, as until now, justifiably raises suspicion that police dictionaries will not question the operation of the police. What seems almost amazing to me in this situation is how police becomes shut down in part and due to insufficient number of illicit actions. It turns out that the citizens of Buzet and Buja are being punished for respecting the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder and ask those who made this decision. Gentlemen, what message is this sent, and what is the next police station you're going to shut down? The IDS representative club believes that the reconstruction and reorganisation can be carried out in a number of other ways that will contribute to the desired rationalisation but that will not violate the standards of public service and the safety of citizens so far because the quality of police stations as well as the presence of police officers is one of the reasons why the security situation in the area of the cities of Buja and Buzet is very favourable. I believe it's in everyone's best interest to keep it that way. I therefore call on both the MUP and Minister Bozinović as well as the Police Directorate to review their decision to abolish police stations in Bujam and Buzet and to appeal possible in cooperation with local self-government to find a solution that will achieve the desired goals, while not jeopardising the safety and quality of our citizens' lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5504	The next Club of Representatives is the party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5505	The Honorable Chairman today is the day when in the Croatian Parliament the subject of corruption is so I will address some issues that have been waiting for my answer for many years. We must face the fact that in the fight against corruption, we are among the most corrupt EU Member States, and the corruption perception index shows a trend and continuity of the deterioration. Where's it stuck? This will be learned from the report of the authorities who will soon be on the agenda discussed in the Croatian Parliament. But from these reports, especially from the report of the DORH, the President of the Supreme Court, the Commission for the conflict of interest and a whole series of others, it was first and foremost stuck here in the Croatian Parliament. Fellow MPs, regardless of which political parties we come from, regardless of what part of the political spectrum we belong to, we carry primarily personal and then joint responsibility as members of this legislative body to make our legislative system fair, meaningful, rational and effective. I am telling you as I did this morning when asking for a break that reports by the competent authorities repeatedly point to one of the same problems that could be solved by the relevant amendments to the law despite the fact that, year after year, DORH points to everything that is bad in criminal law, the Croatian Parliament has done absolutely nothing about it. First of all, I am referring to the too short deadlines for the prosecution, the inappropriate and legally unsustainable decisions of the accused councils to which the indictment is dismissed, and also to the short term of the length of the insurance measures on the property of the defendant. In view of the number of corruption affairs relating to members of the ruling party, and in particular those relating to high-level officials, it is concluded that such ignoring of the legislator stems from the government's intention to protect its own and that the small almost negligible number of judgments for criminal offences is not just a mere case. The impression that the fight against corruption is primarily falsified and false is damaging to all of us. And there are really too many corrupt politicians, so there are too many corrupt political parties. But we're not all the same. We want to be a constructive opposition and to propose solutions because we have solutions, we prepared them before we got the chance to be members of this House. We point out that corruption cannot be solved only through strengthening its repression control because once we have already reached the stage of committing crimes, it is actually too late to fight corruption successfully. Corruption must be resolved while it is a prevention phase, and it stems from the system. And so I ask you fellow MPs, are you ready to deal with structural reforms, really open to dialogue, and also to those clubs and political options that are in opposite ideological and secular positions? Are you ready to seek consensus and best solutions? Can we put public interest and the welfare of the state and all its citizens above the individual political interests of our own political parties? Because corruption has, above all, a personal and sometimes a party omen. But the fight against corruption must not have a party omen, it must be our primary national goal. The rulings often mention demographics, but have you ever wondered if we are losing because of corruption in Croatia? This issue was addressed by our scientist, professor at the Croatian Catholic University of Tade Juric, who proved that emigration, especially the new wave of emigration, has primarily been influenced by corruption, breakdown of institutions, inefficient institutions, nepotism and clientelism. I believe that the example of this scientific research published in the form of a book should be referred to several addresses. One of these is the address of former Minister Goran Maric, because his political career and résumé are abundant in examples of party entanglement, clientelism, nepotism and all those phenomena that make our work and then intellectual capacity abandons this country. Once they leave, they describe her as a state where there's no hope for them anymore. Lastly, in a number of examples, the party card is the best life insurance policy to represent his job as a management adviser in a state-owned company, and the situation could have been avoided that the government of Andrej Plenkovic adopted those proposals for a conflict of interest from the last term. In each of my speeches, I will continue to talk about proposals from the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which we have prepared and which we will first and foremost refer to the National Council, and then to all representatives' clubs with the aim of having a debate on it to find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5506	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5566	Dear Vice President of HS, Mr. Rainer. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. If you think about God here he is talking again today, it's my birthday, so here I am at my counsel club. I'll treat all of you fields freely at the club, there at the bar whoever wants espresso or something else can drink on my account. [[Intruder Reiner: Then we congratulate you all.]] I was talking about sports here a dozen days ago, about losing numbers on investing in sports at EU level, we are at the very bottom of Europe. The alarming state in the system of financing amateur and professional sport is silent. In the end, I was also talking about the slapper, we filmmakers say to the father who at the beginning of the school year welcomed sports workers, coaches, small athletes, and this is a ban on the use of school sports halls, based on a recommendation from the Ministry of Science and Education. I have appealed from this place of the Honorable House to the relevant competent institutions to make decisions as urgently as possible to ensure conditions, to enable children athletes to train sports in school sports halls. Dear MPs and MPs, exactly 15 days after that speech or appeal to protect coaches, children and young athletes the situation on the ground is your next, I am a man of the field and a man is somehow always the most important to me, people are the most important to me. Mr Tomislav Družak has provided information that 10,000 athletes are currently unable to deal with sports because of current recommendations. Our Minister, Radovan Fuchs, says coldly dead, quotes Minister of "The School Sports Halls can open to the use of clubs during the weekend with strict disinfection measures afterwards". Minister Fuchs at this time publicly, and I'm sending you a mail tonight, if you didn't know at the weekend athletes have their own competitions, their performances showing skills, which they worked hard at trainings through weeks and months of preparation. So on the weekends, even if we wanted to, sports kids can't train for a prosaic reason. Mr. Bozo Pavik's adviser to Minister Fuchs says this week, quote: "In the first phase of the hall will be able to use all seniors," imagine "or professional athletes who are preparing for various championships and have nowhere to train. So far, there is no talk about the fact that in the evenings in the sports halls there are students involved in sports activities because there would be a mix of students of different classrooms, which is not in line with the recommendations for regular teaching." Therefore, athletes of those 10,000 who currently, along with their coaches, were deprived of their right to sport, to play and to work remain without a roof over their heads. And what are we all doing? In addition to, of course, currently kickings, we follow these problems in sport, and each of us will raise our hands first and boast about the top results of our athletes, paint on some receptions, organise various receptions and collect cheap political points. Hypocritical, dear colleagues. Does anyone here know how many kids they're going to stop dealing with or have stopped playing sports for the sake of this situation? What are the consequences of that? Does anyone wonder, then, if we are to ban the use of sports halls as the main reason why we listed the cost of cleaning up funds? So training is possible to organize, implement, but we country that cares so much about sports says there are no solutions to ensure the implementation of sports programs in school sports halls. And that's why today I kindly appeal to you from this place, regardless of who belongs to which political option these kids are most important to us, the clinics are sports, dear people, I don't know, I mean, I have two kids, they're into sports, we're dealing with again, I have feelings, irrelevant topics, kids can do gym classes, and then the same kids who, for example, do. They train karate, I can't come as athletes in that same gym. Well, it's an absurd state, so if there's anyone here, are we using logic or are we going to say you're HDZ, we're not going to, you're SDP, you're with you, you're Homeland, so what's wrong with us? So is there anything in this country that we all share? There's ecology, great, what else is there? Kids? Does anyone take care of children? Do they have the right to a healthy life, to a video? Of course, by sticking to everything, I'm not generalizing anything at all, I'm just trying to wake us up if I can put it so vividly. And finally, please, let's do whatever we can for every one of us to let sports kids just be able to be in gym sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5567	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5612	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. According to Art. 56. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of the University has a Rector, Senate and University Council. According to Art. In 60th of the same law, the university council oversees the performance of the university's tasks in accordance with Article. 3rd and 53rd of the same law, in particular the legality of its work, rational use of personnel and material resources, etc. In accordance with Article 5 of the same article, the University Council shall submit reports at least once a year to the Founder on the activities of the University. That's what the article says. 28. University of Zagreb, Statute of the University of Zagreb. According to Art. 60. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education has 6 or 12 members. According to the same article, a sixth of the members shall be appointed by the founder. University Council of the University of Zagreb has 12 members, sixth of 12 is 2. The founder of the University of Zagreb is the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, 2 members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb appointed HS. In the past term, members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb appointed by HS were Joško Klisovic and Željko Reiner. Kola Klisovic is no longer a representative, counterpart Reiner is still the vice president of the assembly today, as he has been in the past term. He was a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. However, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues of the University Council of the University of Zagreb in the past 4 years. has not filed a single report on the activities of the university, has been broken by law and violation, this same law for 4 years, and in fact for longer, and has been violated by the body that has appointed its two members in this home, not only to respect this same law but also to protect the interests of the universities and the interests of the founders, which is the Republic of Croatia that we represent here, HS. Kolega Klisovic and Reiner showed little concern for the law, nor for the HS who tasked them with representing him in the university council. How then do we believe that they cared about the legality of the university's work or the rational use of its personnel and material resources and everything the law implies? that the central advice should work. There's been no reports for four years, and the information is coming, and then how can we not believe what we can't officially find out because it's been reported that the number of employees at the university department has grown by more than double. That the salaries of this administration, along with extra fees, have increased compared to the previous administration also by more than double. That contracts on the work of some management members are not legal. That university facilities on the Adriatic serve as summer residences. To be made and generously honored films that have never shown much more. We have the right to know, find out the data, the indicators, see if the university is moving in the right direction and how fast. We should have known already. We'll ask the minister in writing. Someone still needs to cover this reporting period and your colleagues and colleagues, please the next time we choose those whom this Assembly will represent not only at the university but also otherwise, please consider who you vote to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5707	And the next Club of Representatives is that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Mario Kapulica will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5708	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have already spoken in this House in some debates and parliamentary issues about the issue of trust in state institutions. This time I took a word on behalf of the HDZ Club representative to say a few more words on the subject. So we have been building this trust in state institutions ever since we started building a Croatian state, from the foundation when the Croatian state institutions didn't even have one. We didn't even have state institutions like the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, we didn't even have state institutions of any character including HRT and other institutions. So, in this process we sometimes try to build more with less success, strengthen the institutions and do what is necessary for the state to function as we all want, which is that in this two-sided process because it is not one-sided, that when we ask citizens to trust and support work, the other day in the debate we talked about the work of the Croatian border police and Croatian customs to return both support and trust to them as representatives and as ordinary citizens in the business they do. So we in HDZ and invited to these recent events, we would like to stress that we believe that we are indeed in one important moment and a great opportunity, a great opportunity to make in this area those important steps that will allow this trust that is in the interests of both the institutions and Croatian citizens to be strengthened and that where it has been rocked or lost, it is regained. It is difficult, of course, to speak on this subject after Scarface's distinguished MPs Kristo exhibiting all the phenomena that violate the building of this trust, despite this confidence, despite the view that when it comes to corruption, he must not have party traits and that this is the task of all of us, they are constantly turning this area into a space for creating a certain party prestige. This party prestige cannot be achieved in any other way than by open and sincere consideration without seeking political profit from what is said. It is difficult to listen and let alone accept the the thesis on which, due to the indictment against Todorovic, who has been preparing the note for a very long time and who is fully expected by some and delayed, in order to mask it, the president of the Croatian government has requested, outsourced or fabricated some other cases, so as to draw attention from what? The procedure we've all been familiar with, the one we've been reading about in the media, that we've been expecting... The indictments and final court epilogue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think we need to get rid of this need to get into this, that is, create a space for party competition and, as representatives, on the very trail of what many in the name of clubs have been saying, we come forward with the same desire for such problems to be solved. So, and in building trust with the state and its institutions where unfortunately... It doesn't look very good, we all have to participate, but it's pretty hard, you know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is it so hard? Because it is necessary to avoid that when it comes to an international convention that should prevent violence and protect participants of sporting events, we also talk and listen to war profiters, about those who peel people's skin, about those who have betrayed Croatia and its ideals. So I think we should concentrate and do our job in order to specifically and Croatian citizens should have confidence in us. If we're talking about a subject, we're talking about it with a measure We stick to the subject and try to find the best solutions. [[Attack Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u5709	Thank you very much. We'd like to finish with today's work and sit down on Wednesday, September 23rd at 9:30, have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6506	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As we have announced today, we will vote on reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Before we go, I see a colleague of Grmoja, a colleague of Oreshkovic, a colleague of Zekanovic's, called three, Col. Škoro Four, a colleague of Martincevic, a colleague of Bosnjakovic. Well, let's take it in a row, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6507	Thank you, Your Honor. Here we go. We'll take off our immunity to our colleagues. I won't. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club. [[Intruder President: Are you looking for a break or?]] I'm not going to deal with this affair, we're done with the affair, we're done with the Croatian people of affairs. I'll warn you so you won't be in position if we have to remove your immunity soon. I, as chairman of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, sent you an e-mail asking you to forward to all MPs the documentation showing that Ambassador Kushen was actually, that Ambassador Kushan's wife had one corrupt plan to issue her a solution to the fictional schedule in Australia. According to the plan, indeed without the competition, the solutions to the fictional schedule were unlawfully issued to the consulates in Melbourne and Sidney from where she was paid about half a million kuna in Camberra. I asked you to deliver the plan to the representatives of the Zinc profiteers, but you decided to hide the plan and you have been doing so for a long time, not only you but also the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Grlic Radman, and so did the former minister who went into one luxuriant position. I am now going to all MPs, please colleagues to look at it, so the evidence is quite evident about corruption at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The man who exposed this corruption is away from the service and has not yet been returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6508	My colleague Grumo, this is a very ugly manipulation and insinuation sent to the president of HS. So the president of HS is not your postman to distribute your mail. You are in the position where you are and from that position you can also report to the Croatian public and colleagues and colleagues about what your body is at the head of the debate and what it has concluded. So, you're free to distribute it to all MPs and MPs, but I don't understand why you expect me as president of HS to do it for you. So, support to all the bodies as I told DORH and USKOK and PNUSKOK yesterday and let them all do and investigate and corruption and abuse of positions and everything that is contrary to the law, but I don't understand why you are now making a political case and politicizing it in one way and in a very ugly and inappropriate way you are manipulating it. Here you go, colleagues, Kristo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6509	Infringement of Rules of Procedure. 144, you say you are not a postman, so I just warned at the last session that at the end of the current hour you did not warn or inform Croatian parliamentary representatives about what the Croatian government did not answer from our parliamentary questions. We didn't get that message of yours, and it was still said that it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and according to the article. 144, you are required to report and be as you say the postman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6510	So, this is about another thing that really is the obligation of the president of HS to pass the enquiries to the Croatian government, and I did it. I also sent a rush when it comes to your government's inquiry to answer your representative's question, so I did it. But there are no mechanisms for me to force the government to do so and answer that question. And if she doesn't respond after this haste, I'll send another rush. So please... /Speakers speak at the same time./... Wait a minute, what you're doing right now is not allowed, so you have to look for a word, get a word and communicate in accordance with a certain procedure and Rules of Procedure. So please don't throw yourself out of place like that, because then everyone could do it that way. You were also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6511	Your Honor. You have injured two articles of the Rules of Procedure, Art. Article 15 33. I'll be polite not to argue here, but the National Council is the working body of HS and I've asked you as president to deliver that documentation. If you don't want to, you're no postman, you're in charge of both me and all the MPs, if you don't want to do it, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6512	I invite you to do this and ask you not to ask for anything that is not in accordance with the rules, with the Rules of Procedure. You're right. In the end, it is also your obligation if you consider it to be such acts that you have now spoken of. Let's move on now, colleague Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6513	The Honorable President of HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IP Party, Smart and Glass for further consultations on how to vote. We feel that some of the issues that are particularly important in this particular case need to be discussed further. There is, in fact, a large and obvious disproportionate balance between the number of corruption affairs and spectacular arrests on the one hand and the number of procedures that have ended with the rightful judgments on the other. I'm not questioning whether in this case there is a reasonable doubt that there is a possible crime that has been committed against our colleagues, but I'm having a problem with it. Is our entire fight against corruption really falsified and false? In this report, the Croatian Parliament received a State Attorney's Report for 2019, and I note that the same problems were repeated in this report which the DORH pointed out in previous reports, and for which HS as a legislative body did not take any action. For example, this report indicates that the Criminal Procedure Act prescribes too short-limits for the prosecution, which in practice lead to the fact that the DORH is obliged to give up prosecution because the necessary evidence could not be collected within that period. Also, the DORH again complains, for example, of the inappropriate and legally wrong decisions of the accused councils on the rejection of the indictment. The DORH repeatedly points out that the deadlines for the temporary security measures on the property of the defendant are also too short and then, even in those cases where we reach a judgment of power, we have nothing to charge ourselves from because at that point, the defendant no longer has any property on his behalf and from which the alienated assets could be returned to the state budget. So I'm asking a question, what is this play and play for the public, unless, as an HS, we are urgently dealing with the removal of obvious intentional shortcomings in Croatian legislation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues Oreshković.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6514	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Let's move on now. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6515	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. I would warn here that no one bears political responsibility for what is currently going on. It is interesting to listen to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic talk in the media about the issue of corruption. He spoke about corruption when it came to the case of Josipa Rimac, so the HDZs spoke at the time of Jadranka Kosor when Sanader ended up in prison, but today, will Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic bear political responsibility because of the people he had delegated to the lists several months ago and placed in the Croatian Parliament? So here I would like the Croatian people to understand something. This is not the victory of Andrej Plenkovic, this is his great defeat because it is the most positioned people within his party and I would like to see the media convey this way. It's not about the victory of Andrej Plenkovic. It's about the great defeat. I'd still like to warn you of one very important thing, and it's about today's vote. HDZ and its SDSS partners today do not have a majority in the Croatian Parliament because at least two MPs are not in the Parliament. We had an emergency session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission this morning where we made the decision to, i.e. where they decided to replace Barisic with Mr. Chicko. If the SDP did not vote today, and other parliamentary parties, other representatives' clubs, today HDZ would not have a quorum. The SDP will vote, the reason is clear, it's about their colleague Grgic, but I think this is a very good test, to see if HDZ and SDP will get another partner, Whether they get the support of all the club representatives or someone will still open their eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6516	I thank my colleague Zekanovic, the break will be approved, too. Dear colleague Škoro, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and all the Croatian public, I will indeed seek a break and seek it on behalf of the Home Movement Club because we want a break. We want to consult because the removal of immunity, the removal of immunity requests, the indictments arrive as if on the conveyor belt. We went home yesterday thinking we were going to discuss two MPs, and today we were welcomed by three. Maybe there'll be four of them by the end of the day. Let the institutions do their jobs, but let us have a break for the simple reason that we do not know whether we should be abstention in this vote because, as some colleagues mention, they do not want to participate in this game, enough to mention that we were witnesses of an affair such as the ATM affair, the Spice affair, we had a situation with Mr. Vidosevic, still the situation in court with Mr. Sanader, The Roman is in investigation and so on every day. So, not only do people deprive themselves of freedom, not only do they leave this House as suspects, but those actions are no longer followed nor do we have any knowledge of when and how it will be done. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club because we want to consult whether we're going to be restrained on this matter or we're going to be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6518	Thank you, too. Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6519	On behalf of the HSLS and Reformers Club, I am looking for a break to further highlight the importance of fighting corruption, which, of course, we strongly support. The only problem is that our fight against corruption comes down to spectacular arrests, before that, as we have seen, a call is sent to the media, all of this is taken and what happens after that, absolutely nothing. The rule of law is the trust of its citizens in the judicial system, and the justice system and our judiciary is the worst in this country. Processes are solved and continued, not for years, but for decades. It's particularly dangerous when we talk about politicians, and it's even more dangerous when we talk about politicians and executives. In fact, we here today are removing immunity from the two MPs. Two MPs, but two mayors. So I'd just like to remind you of one case we had in the city of Varazdin when he was also arrested in a spectacular arrest by Mayor Chehok. That was 10 years ago. Ten years ago, the mayor of Varazdin, Ivan Chehok, was arrested. Where's Ivan Chehok today? After that, so for two and a half years, two and a half years has been unlawfully sentenced to prison sentence, inadmissible. There are four confirmed charges all for causing damage to the city of Varazdin. He is the mayor of the city of Varazdin today, he settles contracts in these disputes for which he has been accused and unlawfully convicted, drinks coffee with the prime minister, and here we saw him two weeks before in Varazdin, before the ceremony of the county assembly and prepares for the next local elections. He's preparing for the next local election, so that's our judiciary. I just hope these arrests don't end in the same way as in this case Ivan Chehok in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6520	The apartment will be approved to you. Now it's time for my colleague Bosnjakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6521	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a five-minute break for a clear reason that we want to discuss this issue one more time. Despite the fact that the proceedings are being initiated, despite the fact that there is a presumption of innocence guaranteed by our constitution of the Republic of Croatia, despite the fact that there are no judicial judgments, in any case these proceedings that have been initiated and this report which we are going to vote on today is going to bring one shadow to the work of all politicians, and we want to discuss it one more time. In any case, the fight against corruption is extremely important, it is extremely important. However, I must say that fighting corruption is not just a matter of justice, it is a question of all segments of society, and we must all be determined in this fight because it is indeed something that destroys society. All those who are two in the existence of the parliamentary majority, the message is that the majority of parliament still exists, and the mandates we have won do not belong to the parties belong personally to the MPs because that is how it is guaranteed by the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6522	The apartment will be approved for you, too. Be my guest, now it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6523	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS, I request a five-minute break to consult on this burning topic today in Croatia. First of all, I'd like to point out that this is what Mrs. Poirot is. Martincic said it was absolutely true, but it refers to a whole party, for example, which is in the same position. So, we all know that HDZ has been accused, that an inadmissible verdict has been passed, and today they are back in power, so similar to that of the Czech Republic in Varazdin, and HDZ throughout the country, which may also be talking about society, in a state in which society is located both in Varazdin and in all of Croatia not only in this situation. I think that we should really consider that the institutions or the concept of immunity are abolished for all MPs, because it doesn't make any sense anymore. Knowing the way certain people are mentioned today, people who are behind them, and today they pretend not to know them, and that doesn't last a day, not a year, but at least 12 years. Since I've been in politics and I've had some of these people come to me as mayor with certain ideas, fortunately, so I've been vaccinated, so I've refused any combination, if I hadn't been taken off my immunity today, either with guilt or with debt. You can laugh as much as you want, we can talk about names, there are people who protect those people behind them. So I suggest that it be considered in the future to remove itself except for a verbal delinquent, immunity to all parliamentary deputies, without being used as an innuendo because some media are now saying that Mr. Dragan Kovacevic is doing it because HDZ has a candidate for Director Janaf. So, to clear out, let's end immunity for all of us, so that then the parliamentary commission and we don't have to talk about anything like that that the BOOK or the police suspect, but immediately arrest without taking any clothes off. immunity except for verbal delinquent what is done [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Beljak]] to certain people for writing and speaking. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Beljak]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6524	Thank you very much. I'm just warning you, if you've had such offers, you should have reported them so we know who it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6525	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6526	Ha, I'd rather you say it in public than now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6527	I'll say it in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6528	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6529	I'll say it in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6530	Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6531	Now you're calling me to cover up the crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6532	Well, you said it yourself, I didn't call you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6533	I was saying, I didn't speak in the context that you understood, obviously you recognized Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6534	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6535	We know very well how things work in the Republic of Croatia. I'm Mr. Bosnakovic's case 12 years ago. reported, there are damages, potential, billions of kunas, so I spoke Mr. Bošnjakovic, there's a witness for you, said he didn't believe it was true. [[Employer: A fellow white man]] Is that the man who does this is your member? [[/Agreement: Comrade Beljak, thank you very much.]] Also.../The speaker has been disabled/... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6536	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Comrade Beljak, let's finish, please let's finish. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6537	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. Art., you and I have very rarely talked, and the address for the application is not a minister but a state attorney's office, you know it very well, so it's not a correct name, me and you have never personally talked about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6538	Okay, please stop this kind of debate. If there's anything that's suspicious, we know where the competent institutions are. Here you go, pal Tomašević. Please, colleague Beljak, colleague Bosnjakovic, please. Here's a colleague of Tomašević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6539	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. It's clear that, clearly, we're going to vote to remove the immunity of these three, the three actually representing them. But I have to admit that it's completely, I don't know what to call it, it's embarrassing that in 50 days of this call we're rescinding immunity not once, not two, but three MPs. So 50 days ago, we were built as a council and we're already removing three immunity agents and I wonder how long we'll last if we continue at this pace. So in a few years we won't have any more quorum in HS. As for the other situation that we want to discuss the same, and I think that we should find the same time in the assembly to discuss it is this information that has emerged that Dragan Kovacevic has been tipped off that he will be arrested, in fact that he received that tip Wednesday night, which I absolutely think is very, very problematic, and I do not understand how it is possible that in such investigations, secret leaks of information that people under measures have been warned that they are under measures in order to possibly destroy evidence. So that's what I really think we should deal with. Similarly, as regards 3 situations other than these two MPs related to, with this latest investigation of USKOK, what I think is also HDZ's political responsibility to which they have the right and that is the prime minister's primary responsibility, he has the right to place the third of this representative on the list of Darko Puljasic, Mayor Požega it was his right, but I will repeat he had the indictment in January that indictment confirmed in July after the election and therefore now his request from the DORH comes to him to remove his immunity. I think it's quite a risk, knowing what the prime minister was going to take. political responsibility. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6540	Thank you very much. And my colleague Bauk called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6541	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm looking for a break and I want to repeat again what we said yesterday after we found out about this whole case. The SDP supports the work of independent institutions, and the SDP will also vote to remove immunity as requested by the State's Attorney's Office. There is no reason in this case that we have some mistrust in the work of the institutions, if in other cases we suspect some kind of political abuse of the institutions we will not hesitate to talk about it as we have not been livin' before. In this case, it is about giving a minimum, not a minimum, but more than that trust to the institutions to finish this job. To all those who are burdened by our colleagues, we want first of all to present their defenses, as can all other citizens of the Republic, to have a fair trial, if they are innocent of proving it in court and to join them here in the assembly, and if they are guilty, let them not choose them. Although as Mrs Martincevic said, and also in the case of the City of Zagreb, citizens sometimes choose those who have certain contacts with institutions. To conclude, I'm aware that this is certainly not the last time we're discussing removing immunity. I hope it's the last time we're discussing removing immunity for deprivement of freedom because these are debates that are neither easy nor simple to discuss, but ultimately, whoever's guilty should answer, and who's not to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6542	Thank you. If we have any more interested, if we don't vote then 10 o'clock and 35 minutes. So in five minutes, I'm asking you to be here. It's 10:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:35 A.M.]] My colleagues and colleagues, we're about to take a vote. First, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal procedure and to grant authorisation for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of an investigative prison against Drazen Barisic of representatives in HS. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following decision: 1. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Drazen Barisic of representatives in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. As of 17 September 2020, KPUS-271/2020 is referred through DORH Act No. CRDO-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime of trade with an influence from art. 295th century 1 and criminal offence of abuse of positions and powers, and art. Article 291(1) Versus 34. The Penal Code and the 1st An authorisation is granted for the deprivement of liberty and for the determination of investigations of the investigation prison against Drazen Barisic of the representatives in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. As of 17 September 2020, KPUS-271/2020 is referred through DORH Act No. CRDO-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime of trade with an influence from art. 295th century 1 and criminal offence of abuse of positions and powers, and art. Article 291(1) Versus 34. Penalty law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I note that 122 MPs, 121 for and 1 abstentions voted and we have reached a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings and the granting of authorisation for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of an investigative prison against Vinko Grgic of representatives in HS. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following decision: 1. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vinko Grgic of representatives in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. As of 17 September 2020, KPUS-271/2020 is referred through DORH Act No. CRDO-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence of taking bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty law. 1. An authorisation is granted for the deprivement of liberty and for the determination of investigations of the investigation prison against Vinko Grgic of the representatives of HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. As of 17 September 2020, KPUSD-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. CRDO-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence of taking bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty law. We'll vote now. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 125 MPs voted, 123 voted in favour, 2 voted abstentionally so that we made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Third, Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Darko Puljasic of MPs in HS. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following decision: Appropriation is granted for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Darko Puljasic of the MPs in HS for the criminal offence of counterfeiting a business document from art. 279th century 1. KZ/11 criminal offences against the economy, subsidisations described in Article 1(1). Article 258(3) 258.St. 1. KZ/11 with the application of Art. 51. KZ/11 on the indictment of the County State Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod No. CODO-19/2020-1 of 10 January 2020 We'll vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs voted, 123 voted in favour and 2 voted with abstention and we have made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6545	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament held at this morning's 5th session on September 18th, so we discussed the written request of MP Drazen Barisic of 17 September 2020 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold in accordance with the provisions of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Matu Cička as deputy representative Drazen Barisic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate, Drazen Barisic, which is also a condition for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Mate Čička,'s post office. After the debate has been held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be based on Articles 14, 11 and 42(2). The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of MPs' mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6546	Comrade Beljak, I ask you to keep your voice down at the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6547	On 17 September 2020, the term of office of representative Drazen Barisic, acting in accordance with Article 9(2), shall begin. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Mato Čičak on the day when the assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6548	I thank my colleague, Jankovic, and I am opening a debate on this report. Since no one has answered, I am closing the debate, so I am voting on the next decision. On 17 September 2020, the stay of MP Drazen Barisic begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Mato Čičak on the day when the assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 110 MPs, 108 for, 2 abstentions, have voted so that a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made the proposed decision, we'll approach the oath. Article 7 Rules of Procedure, colleagues, I would like to ask you nicely, in Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that he shall call the representatives by name. A representative who has been called for evasion and pronounces "I swear". The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6549	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6550	I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues will now return to our agenda, today it is on the agenda of the point: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Integrated Access to Security, Protection and Services at Football Games and other sports events, second reading, P.Z. No. 17 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 207. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Under that Article, it is prescribed that law, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts are adopted in the rules of one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I now ask the motionary to give us an additional explanation. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6681	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, you have before you the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on integrated access to security, protection and services at football matches and other sports events. So far, the Convention has been signed by 33 Member States of the Council of Europe and 16 have ratified them. The Convention entered into force on 1 November 2017 following the entry into force of Article 17. Conventions ratified by 3 Member States. Otherwise, the convention was signed in Sant-Denis on 3 July 2016 during the European Football Championship. I will remind briefly of the past and of the Convention that was adopted in 1985, which was in effect until the adoption of this Convention, and the reason for the adoption of this Convention is tragic events at the Hazel Stadium in Brussels and 1985 when 39 people died. Several dozen injured and pressured public authorities across Europe because of the current riots which, therefore, were tied to football, resulted in the adoption, as I said, of the first convention on cheerleading violence in sports competitions. Since the presentation of this Convention, many improvements have taken place with the safety and protection of sports and football, as well as in quality in stadiums where the biggest football gatherings are held. However, detailed research shows that incidents continue to occur at too many matches. Many incidents also result from poor security management, as well as infrastructure in stadiums. Violence is on the rise, both inside and outside the stadium and in the city centers. Sometimes football has become a carrier of political extremism or other kinds of protests, which certainly poses a major security challenge. So I'm going back to the convention that we're proposing by this law. It is based on the work and achievements made at international level since the 1985 European Convention on Cheering Violence. The aim of this Convention is to move away from the approach of focused violence towards an integrated approach based on 3 independent pillars, which are security, protection and service. In addition, the convention promotes cooperation between public and private participants involved in the creation of sports gatherings, so that it is safe, protected, and viewers and fans welcome, with course, including local communities and fans themselves. The Convention provides measures based on the highest safety, protection and service standards developed in Europe. Here, I mentioned the three pillars on which the convention is based, so I'd like something on them. The concept of safety gathers all measures related to the protection of people from injury or the risk to their health during the sport competition. This includes stadium infrastructure and certification, emergency plans or measures related to alcohol consumption. Security measures also protect people on their journey to sports competition and in public areas, therefore, streets, squares, outside the stadium. The concept of protection includes all measures prescribed and designed to deter, prevent or sanction any violent incident or misbehavior in relation to sport or other, or such public gathering, within or outside the stadium. It shall include, in particular, risk assessment, cooperation between the police and other relevant agencies, as well as sanctions. The concept of service contains all the measures designed to make a football or other sports gathering pleasant and welcome for all participants, both at the stadium, so at all the announcement places where fans and viewers gather before, during and after the game. This includes certainly good hospitality, sanitary knots, but above all focuses on how fans are treated throughout the sport competition or gathering. The Convention stresses by overlapping the character of security, protection and service measures at football matches and other sports gatherings regardless of their primary purpose. These measures are interrelated in terms of impact and must therefore be balanced and must not be created and implemented in isolation. Given that one pillar can affect the other two, the Convention requires that the role and actions of each agency involved in the planning and operational activities related to the sport gathering be coordinated, complementary, proportionate and implemented as part of a comprehensive security strategy. The convention also stresses the importance of the role of viewers and local communities in helping football matches and other sports competitions and gatherings be secure, protected and accessible. At local level, an integrated approach should include the need for joint work by local authorities, clubs, security services. The goal is to ensure that sport, most often football, takes place in the environment, where high standards of physical infrastructure combined with adequate security management arrangements. In order to ensure a certain stadium, it reaches the desired standards in both areas, it is necessary to effectively license the stadium and the security certification of the arrangement. I repeat, the goal is to ensure safety, protection and affordable environment for all viewers at the stadium. I would mention that according to the provisions of the article. 13th century 1 of this Convention was established by the Committee on Safety and Protection in Sports Competitions. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 13(3) of the Convention provides that any Member State of the Council of the EU or parties to the European Cultural Convention which is not party to this Convention, as well as any non-member country which is party to the Convention No. 120... may be represented by the Committee as an observer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of those provisions, until the signing of this Convention, the Republic of Croatia may therefore only have observer status on the Committee and may not be actively involved in its work. After signing or ratifying, amendments to the ratification documents of the Republic of Croatia shall become a full member and may actively participate in the work of the Committee. In the case of financial effects and costs following the signing or ratification of the Republic of Croatia Convention, there will be no additional financial costs, therefore neither the MUP as a body designated for its implementation nor the other bodies, since the measures provided for in this Convention have already been implemented in the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you that the basis for implementing the insurance measures is described in the Convention on Public Assembly and the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. The Republic of Croatia has also been full of 14 years since 1 August 2006. in the MUP established by the Department for the Prevention of Disturbs in Sport Competitions as a specialised line of work for this area, and acts as a national information point for football provided for in the provisions of this Convention. Dear MPs and respected MPs, here is the basic information relating to the ratification of this Convention, and the results in preventing riots in sports competitions in the last 10 years. have been recorded and large steps have been made with, hence, a smaller number of police officers involved, and with a smaller number, resulting in fewer violations, criminal acts, injured persons, destroyed traffic assets and other and other material resources. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6682	Thank you very much. Please stay here, we have more replicas, the first is the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6683	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I have carefully listened to you, read the law, I just don't see anywhere that you have listed the department for those who are in the solemn lodges, those who are criminals and those who are allowed when they create huge crimes in a sport that affects the cheerleading groups that run into third countries and laugh peacefully both at fans and the whole of Croatia, the Croatian people. What about them, with those who drink alcohol in the carpenters, they eat broken fish in the solemn lodges, no one mentions them? They are one of the key causes of problems and deviations in society, mostly among the cheerleading groups, because I was in cheerleading groups and Torcida and my synthetic Maligans. This, this department is a priority, when you solve that department, believe me that we have solved 90% of things among the cheerleading groups as well as in Croatian society. It's a question of criminals in solemn lodges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6684	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6685	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, the aim of ratifying this Convention and the laws that I have mentioned, which apply to the Republic of Croatia, is to enable fans, groups of fans, families who want to follow and celebrate sports, to enjoy sports competitions, safe surroundings, a joyful, joyful atmosphere in the streets of our cities and our sports resorts, and in this sense the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the MUP is working and such an environment wants to create. All those who have sinned against the law against them are being prosecuted and the persecution bodies and the judicial authorities must do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6686	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6687	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So here's the law on preventing riots in sports competitions, and here's this convention that we need to ratify in front of us, and in public too, we talk a lot when we're talking about the behavior of sports competitions, we're talking about fans themselves, but in law and this convention, we're talking about one part, here in particular through art. 8. It is now related to the relationship with fans and the local community by the police themselves. We know that inside the MUP, we also have an office that deals with it. I'm interested in mentioning a lot of the very prevention and communication and joint projects with fans, fans' associations, how much office puts emphasis on it. How much cooperation is being made with fans' associations, and how much is it ultimately when we look at statistics that acts on the prevention of riots in sports competitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6688	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6689	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, of course prevention is the very core of every police force's work. When it comes to sports competitions and potential riots, cooperation with sports alliances, clubs, but also with fans' associations is crucial. It is constantly being implemented and exactly what I pointed out, results back in the last 10 years. are visible, but of course we try to continue to work and prevent any unwanted occurrences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6690	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6691	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, this is about confirming the convention. I think it will also get great support in this assembly for the simple reason that we really need to be together with other countries and the EU and in a way that we really support these things. But my question concerns one other thing. On 16 May 2019, Deputy Prime Minister Marija Pejcinović-Buric, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, signed the convention. From that moment to today it's been over a year, even more. Why haven't we had this before in HS? We just had the election in May, so we had a chance to do it. What were the reasons why we'd only get it on the table now and in the debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6692	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6693	Your Honor, Madam Representative. Yes, you have well noticed the date of signing the Convention, however the entire process of ratification of international documents takes a certain time, should be given opinions by all competent authorities. In this case other than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here are involved bodies whose jurisdiction is sport in the Republic of Croatia, security in our country and other bodies and here this procedure has lasted since then until this law appeared before HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6694	The next replica of the respected representative Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6695	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Namely, this convention is closely related to the regulation law, i.e. Restraining the negativity of cheerleading stadiums in its context and the way it was written is one of the most rigorous European laws on fans that has been adopted not in agreement with cheerleading groups but unilaterally which, in your words, clearly gives some results. What I am interested in, the Croatian Government commits itself to establishing the so-called NFIP - National Football Information Point, something like this we have had so far when our fans were visiting in other countries, so I wonder how the freedom of the citizens of this country will be protected from other countries that will be given information about our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6696	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6697	The aim of this Convention, as well as other multilateral international documents, is to cooperate among countries, so that countries effectively cooperate and exchange information when it is safe to include information on offenders. We know that repetitive or hard-core law offenders in any area should be closely monitored and watched to repeat their offences or crimes. The Convention provides opportunities for the exchange of information on persons who have violated the rules relating to safety in sport competitions and the Republic of Croatia will provide and receive such information from other Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6698	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6699	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's an article that says the biggest tragedy in football history, May 2001. 126 dead in Ghana, April 2001. 43 dead in South Africa, October '96. 84 dead in Guatemala, January '91. 42 dead in South Africa, etc. This results in as many dangers as there can be at a football game. So I think we have to do everything we can to make sure that nothing like this ever happens in any of our stadiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6700	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6701	Yes, you're right, Mr. Representative. Unfortunately, injuries and serious injuries with a large number of injured or killed occur worldwide. Fortunately, very much progress has been made in Europe, and we believe that such a thing will never happen. But it is never the goal of punishing, which is why I mentioned that the aim of this Convention is integrated approach and cooperation between different agencies and local self-government, stadium management, national alliances and fans. So it's not just the police and the fans and the police trying by force to stop fans from enjoying the sports competition. Working together, a pleasant environment in the stadium is why we can enjoy competitions, not fear for your life or health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6702	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the first representative, Marko Milanović litre, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6703	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia once again carries out the will of its EU political commissioners in its civil-Birocrat style without taking into account the need to protect the rights and freedoms of its citizens so badly acquired. The adoption of this Convention is nothing more than a continuation of rigorous, unfair and discriminatory policies by all previous governments towards a social minority whose ranks are a problem, but there is also honesty, honesty and selfless sacrifice that they have shown countless times at local and national level. There are countless examples of the selflessness of Croatian fans, whether by participating in the Homeland War, by helping the consequences of the catastrophic floods in Slavonia or the recent earthquake that has spread Zagreb to its foundations. And I'm going to take this opportunity to thank them once again as their fellow citizen for their selfless struggle that they've shown in those unfortunate moments. Since the Homeland War until today, Croatian authorities have tried to justify the acquired freedoms and rights of our citizens because they had the need and the desire to establish control in the stands of Croatian sports sites. These stands have so far been countless times light that illuminated dark corners where corruption, crime and malversion in Croatian sport, politics and society in general have been cultured for years. The Tribbines have been the abdominal of a large part of our society countless times, and it certainly is no good for any authority, nor for this one. In this proposal, the Croatian Government undertakes to establish the so-called NFIPs national football information points or bodies that will exchange information between police at international, national and local level, as well as at the level of agencies responsible for the safety of protection and services at sports events. In other words, Croatian services will collect information, record and label their citizens, and share the same information with foreign state services with a purpose to contribute to security and protect them and other participants at sports events. And we all know that this very termology around the world violates the acquired freedoms and rights of individuals. Just look at the example of America where personal freedoms and acquired rights are valued far more than in Croatia. Look at the so-called. .../incomprehensible/... which was presented to the American public after a tragic terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in 2001 in New York, the law with one vote against was adopted in the U.S. Senate with an explanation that it would help, by means of it defend against future potential terrorist attacks on U.S. premises. It stands out with the premise that the law will allow the security and protection of American citizens. But after a few years, we witnessed numerous affairs and whistles that warned of mass manipulations of citizens' data without almost any systems that would protect their rights and freedoms. But let's get back to our current problems. Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, which was last amended in 2011, and tried to complete last year is, i.e. In 2019, one of the most rigorous laws in Europe was launched, and it is closely linked to this convention and to the recording of our fellow citizens visiting sporting events. Croatia has never had a problem with fans in the EU compared to other Member States in so far as to justify such a repressive and unfair law. Let us take an example of an English approach to solving this problem. A country in which, mentioned in the convention, which was the source of the problems of all the '60s fans who grew from year to year to reach their climate in the finals of '85. the years in Brussels where 39 people died tragically. In those 20 years, fans were a huge problem in England that the authorities there were rigorous legal measures, but even this English approach provided much more rights than ours today provides. For example, paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which would mean that if it were to be directed, for example. from Split with the characteristics of its club on sports competition in Osijek which will be held the next day and during that journey that takes place let's say the day and a half to the stadium itself or the competition arena, and during that trip you own or consume an alcoholic drink you are considered to be anti-administrative, that you have acted against this unfortunate law and there is the possibility that you will be legitimateized and arrested for having happened countless times for people who have been passing the stadium exclusively, who have been recorded as having been in an alcoholic state and have not even attended the competition events themselves. Furthermore, the Penal Code allows so-called. Voluntary abandonment of action, but the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions does not allow it. Which would mean that if you change your mind halfway and give up your trip to the competition, you are still subject to prosecution. This legal solution directly violates the freedoms of an individual under cover of protection of a greater good. We rightly have to ask ourselves if this law, and therefore this Convention only assumes that such and similar solutions should be extended to other segments of society. It is a matter of time before this law is abolished because it has shown the weakness of a judicial system that slowly ceases to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals, and unfortunately becomes a service of the indictment. The laws are written to protect their citizens, not to manipulate such hard-earned rights and personal freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6704	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6705	Dear Mr. Reiner, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, allow the Secretary of State to speak from experience, not at the level of theory, not at the level of some stories, but from experience. First of all, I wonder who's responsible in our country for discrimination against fans. I'll be very specific, the championship begins, you know it's allowed for fans to return to the stands, but watch this now, for example. I'm a member of the Armada Rijeka fan club, when we come to our northern stands we're forbidden to wear masks, it's forbidden to put masks on the Rijeka fans, but if you come to the central stands you can't come to the central stands without a mask, they say for epidemiological reasons. Now I'm wondering if this country is concerned, whether the headquarters is concerned about all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or you who are fans feel free to get infected, so if you get hit by a crown, we'll see what happens to you, but you who come to the central stands must wear masks. This is without any pathetic, this is a particular situation that's happening. The same has Bed Blue Boys and I hear there's a Torca in the south as well. So, what are we talking about? Is it possible that when fans come to their stands, they're not allowed to wear masks, and other viewers can also be fans, of course, they can't go to the central stands without a mask. There are a few more really discriminatory things that the Croatian public should be familiar with, of these restrictive measures. For example, I'm completely engrossed, and in the end every wise man can't support any violence, Secretary of State, and normally we're in order to do everything possible to keep the violence from happening anywhere, so not even in the stands, but I believe that you've talked to cheerleading groups, then you'd get information about how part of the fan who belongs to the hooligan currents doesn't consume alcohol at all because then it prevents them from in some of their ways that I absolutely build up and don't justify it. And then what do we have? We've got a 60-year-old notation in Kvarner that comes in half to the game, forgive me for saying, domestic, fimmanic, chovik drinks two gemists or two beers and hops, jeweler 0.5 to 2 years of banning coming to the game, that's this strictest law, up to 2 years of banning coming to the game. And every week that uncle has to come to the police station and pick up, here I am, not going to the game this weekend. It's inadmissible for us as citizens, and in the end, we, too, at the Club of Representatives of the Most, can't support the fans in any way. On the other hand, I've shown that the promoter doesn't actually know the cheerleading scene, speaks at the level of the theory, they've read somewhere, so here. And then we have another situation, again very specific. You've got people in our country, and I'm telling me, I'm thinking specifically of the state, ruling to run over people in traffic, to kill people at sea, and that these processes take as long as it takes until they're out of date. Dear colleagues, if I counted you correctly, forgive me for this, the twenty of us are here, I'm going to have to ask that at least us Mostovites, my colleague Bulj has gone to the bathroom, to allow us to at least come regularly. Forgive me for this. So, we have a situation of war profiteers, we have those who are patriotic predators, who have betrayed those deepest values of love for their country, who have peeled off the skin of this people and become millionaires before the war,forks after the war, entrepreneurs who build buildings, who have betrayed all those pure ideals of creating a homeland and then we have fans, specifically a river fan, a man who has more than 100 actions to save human life and imagine what happens? What happens is that a man gets arrested, the procedure doesn't even begin on the cover of the Rijeka newspaper with a full name and last name of his name published, more than 100 rescue actions, responsibly claiming innocent, responsibly claiming and court proceedings will show who's right. His name on the cover because he's a fan, a member of the Armada and then we have criminals whose names and identities are being kept, we have paedophiles if I've got it right from some media, from the Morning List, if I've figured it out, whose days we don't know who these people are, their names are hiding, okay, if that's the law, why are the fans' names being put first? John's going to the Croatian fans. And those same fans were good in '91. Sir, they were good when they stood on the bumper of the homeland without any calculations, Dean Christmas, let me not be resented by my boys for saying names, senior construction school, February, man turned 18, one of the last of the leaders of Armada, last and told my mom, Mom, in February I'm 18, going to defend my country, she says son, so what nonsense this, and came in February, went to the second half of the Construction School in Rijeka, followed him to the train station and went to defend the country, for four years he was in the Homeland War. Allen Fuchak from Switzerland came to Rijeka, the same one of the founders of Armada in '91. They went to defend this country. The late Walter Lulić, a volunteer, gave Rijeka 206 Croatian defenders who gave their lives to our country. None of these guys are criminals, Dennis is a journalist, Eduardo is an academic sculptor, every guest goes. You guys know what we've been up to, secretary of state, we've been through? I've worked for 16 years as a believer, they're aggressive guys, you can't look at them, man, cops, like you're looking at, so I don't watch anything, I came to the game, what, how, how they treat us like that. That's how they treat fans, these are stories, I understand you and try, go to 10 games with us, and you'll see what's going on on in the field. And then we're the problem, and then when there was the crown, when she started, I'm sorry, the epidemic, when it didn't know what it was, in fear was the Croatian people, what was Torcid doing? Well, they stopped at the bumper, you know what they were doing, moving to the boys, working downstairs in Dalmatia, in hospitals, what the Armada boys were doing, no one asked us to get infected, we're not, we're here for you, what the Boys were doing, we all know those pictures from the hospitals, then they're heroes, like we were in '91. And now with rigorous laws, two beer guys can't drink. I don't know if you understand me. It's not about aggression. It's about you being aggressive. To go fighting, right now, I think I'm clear, I don't approve of any aggression, violence, but you drink two beers, come to the game happy and say bring in as if you're a notorious criminal and notorious criminals this country doesn't bring in. Notor criminals, forgive my emotion, it's my boys, the Croatian defenders, I'm like a kid looking at them and saying God, why I'm not two, three years older, these are my friends who gave their lives, I wouldn't stay home safe. They didn't justify themselves with their weak blood, they didn't have moms and dads and they looked to go somewhere but they stood on the bumper of the homeland and they didn't deserve to have such rigorous laws against them, they weren't hiding behind anyone but were there where they were, from Zoran Miletic on the underneath of Rijeka, all the boys, all the Torce, Kohorta etc. And that's why I'm holding, don't kill the freedom of the fans. It kind of seems to me, it's my impression, so don't let anyone blame me, that it's the last garden of chivalry, the knighthood of men, and then it's like some of them are playing, so now we're going to cut you off here so we don't know what we're doing, the theater audience. It's nice to go to the theater, but the stands belong to fans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6706	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that IP, Smart and Glass. And I'm sorry, my order got a little confused. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6707	Thank you, Vice President HS, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. It's good to listen to these debates that may have gotten a little off the subject, but they're experienced, so it's not good, listen here's just a little correction from fellow Miletic Torca is in the north of this, not in the south... is, is, but here we go back a little bit on the subject, I can agree with experiences normally from the stands, but I think it's a problem, the problems of some other laws, and this convention is not so much a problem for fans, but it regulates a certain kind of behavior and certain actions of themselves and organisers, but also police in football but also other sports events. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] This convention is the continuation of an older convention than the secretary of state introduced us here through the history of the '85 convention. which was created precisely because of that tragic event in Brussels where 39 people lost their lives. Normally, she's after '85. It has not been so much and promoted and has not been so much in the modern language or time, therefore this convention, which is before us and which the HS should vote through the final draft of the law, thereby ratify and implement normally in its legal system. The convention itself when we look at its preamble, but also all the articles that are in it, we have and we see that the goal is just to improve security and protect only the guarantee of a friendly environment at football matches and other sports events. Through the very implementation of this Convention, it is expected that, simply in accordance with best European practice, the Republic of Croatia will continue to take measures precisely to prevent riots in sports competitions, but thus enable more fans, participants, families and children in all sports events. A large part of the convention refers normally to police conduct, police cooperation itself, international cooperation, all the conditions which, which the police should unify and act when they are related to sport and sports competitions, but I think it is important and important to highlight this aspect of exactly international cooperation between the police and the member states of the signatories of this convention, here and we know that the Republic of Croatia is very successful in international competitions and that we have to act and that we have to have a uniform practice when dealing with participants in sports events. The convention was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 by the former foreign minister, fortunately and today, the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, we need her here through the law, as I mentioned, to confirm that she would be part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As regards security itself through the Convention, we see 3 different areas, 3 specific concepts that are pervading, these are the security protection of services where simple institutions of a particular state, here in this case the Republic of Croatia, together with organizers, fans or other participants of sports events must be enabled. Among them is the creation of a national information point, the establishment of national information points for football, but also the convention that is doing well and cooperation, the establishment of a Committee on Security and Protection at the sports events called precisely by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. It's this national point, if I'm okay this caught the Secretary of State will be right through the MUP and his Office for the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions. And normally, the main theme in all the debates that will precede this law and this convention is precisely the relationship of fans in a particular society, specifically here in our society that we can also raise ourselves to be a sports nation, to have strong fan groups and to admire that we have high attendance in sports events, and especially here football and absolutely we have to have this convention, and also in future laws that will be changed and related to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, the Sport Act and others exclusively focus on attracting people to, to sports competitions, not by any chance to refuse fans or any other groups to attend any competition. We had at least a hundred stories through the law itself about masks and masking, there were controversial parts, I believe some things will change, but here's the interesting thing about it. 8th of this Convention relating to fans of the local community, where I have just been encouraged and what I have asked through the replica, which is that the parties are also encouraged by all the Agency for the Development and Implementation of Policy Proactive and Regular Communications with Key Sharers, including representatives of fans and local communities, on the basis of the principle of dialogue and with the aim of fostering a partner spirit to establish positive cooperation and to find a solution to possible problems. Any action by the MUP, any action right through the laws that regulate any gatherings in sports competitions, I repeat, an emphasis and I believe that through this convention and is intent, is an emphasis on bringing people back to sports fields, especially theatres, these must be places that are welcome for both children and families, normal fan groups are the most interesting side when we talk about such conventions, but normally, fan groups are not a problem, they are potentially some individuals in them, but looking at statistics, here's what the secretary of state has pointed out to us for the last 10 years if we are following exactly the trend and the violence themselves in sports competitions, it has greatly reduced. The second segment that is important with respect to fans, I repeat, is precisely providing information and international co-operation and exchange of experiences between the Republic of Croatia and other Member States, co-signatures of this Convention, because it is the way to simply have a uniform practice, that we also know when our fans cross the border, go to certain world and European sports competitions, that we know how to act and how they will be treated, and that in this communication and participation normally, our MUP goes well too. All in all, we believe that the HDZ Club believes that we should adopt this very law and tomorrow ratify this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6708	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of IP, Smart and Glass and will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6709	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on integrated access to security, protection and services at football matches and other sports events. It is not by chance that football is particularly prominent, football is certainly the most important secondary thing in the world. It's not that weird. Football can also be played by children, whether they have the best leather ball or have a ragball. So football, and otherwise, in perception, gives children a real opportunity to no matter where they come from, have a feeling that someday in life I can be not going to tell Messi but Luka Modric who is absolutely or from the time of Schuker or someone else and it is not by chance that football is particularly prominent. Likewise, I must remind you that when it comes to the crown, the first to be infected with COVID was a boy who went to a football game and I see that guilt in Dinam. If Dinamo had won by chance and not played unsolvedly, then that young man wouldn't have gone to that game, but of course a joke, but it would have been something else, therefore, it's Dinamu's fault. I went to the sports competitions all the way before maybe some of these parliamentary deputies sitting in benches and being born. I grew up in a town where the whole town, a small town and the whole town lived when the handball club was a European champion and sport was something positive. Getting into sports is positive, being a fan is positive. I always see some pictures coming from the world, when you see joy, joy, pleasure, smile on your face, even here when your club or your country loses is something positive. But there's something that's negative. When you see someone coming back, when you see someone causing yours, out of your country a riot in the stadium, when you see that there's a ban on entering a country, and that's not good. Otherwise, I'm absolutely sure that the cheerleading associations need to work it out between themselves. They know exactly who's positive, who's someone who's affirmative and someone who's negative. We will support the club, or we have confirmation and ratification of this convention. I've never been into dragon measures, dragon measures and they're called dragon measures because they were dragonic and they never caused any effect but for education, for openness, for conversation, for taking care of it all. I have to admit, I always say that, you know... Besides that terrible emotion? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Emotions are when you're a parent and you have a kid who deals with sports. For example, I couldn't even watch it, but I always found it interesting when you have a little kid who's swimming, and then you're especially into the first classes that go and then there's a big competition and at Youth in Zagreb it's usually when it's normal, when the European swimming championship is not as many viewers as you have when grandparents, grandparents, moms, dads and everyone else comes to see someone who's finished and who's involved in swimming and there's always emotion. So sport causes emotion, whether it's an amateur sport or something. You need to turn that emotion into something positive. I remember very well all those pictures that came from England and when the English fans there in the last century passed through the canals and pictures of the dead. The pictures of the fight. The pictures of bloodied heads and that's not good, that's not good emotion, that's negative emotion. So sport causes whether you're playing your game or just following a positive emotion. I, too, see this convention as something that we will ratify at the club, so the former minister, now the Secretary of the Council of Europe has signed it, I think we should take steps, I think in these steps when it comes to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, all associations must participate because they know both the good and all the bad. Really fans' associations I'm going to talk about, no, everyone's mind is the last photo of Bed Blue Boys who came to Petrova and took care of during the earthquake actually the thumbs of those most unprotected, but don't ever forget the pictures we have where our fans went out, made a mess and came back, but whenever they want, they can. The last big championship that was the World Cup in football that was in Russia. All those who came back and who were there, I was just taxiing home to the airport vehicles that came from my closest family, so I'm going to the sports competition, we're tightly tied to all the sports, sport is an integral part of life, and I think it's good and it's positive, and it's good that my kids grew up in such an environment and today it's good to be so, I think they're following everything even darts, but for this debate at this point it's irrelevant, but the pictures that came from Russia were good pictures. There were pictures of fans, we didn't get any bad pictures, we weren't ugly pictures that made you feel bad. Why? Because it was organized, because it was being taken care of, because we didn't see any pictures of any of those cops there, so from Russia they would expect them to be something I don't know about, like, when we have perceptions. So it's important that the performances that are well organized, it's important to educate all those who go, it's important not to cause negative emotions, it's important to be prepared for certain things. So now that I'm going to the crown, I'm really not going, but I've been going to different sports events for years, and I've been going to big concerts, and if I have a bag, my bag will be examined. So, when you go to some big or concert or sports competition and you have no matter how small a bag she'll be looking at you and it was most normal for me to open it right away and say check it out. I've seen a series of negative things, and it's just not good. What do I mean by that? Sports is something that causes positive emotion, sport is something good. Having a sport is great, being a fan is great because you feel good, you have this strong desire to win your club, and then you have the great sadness that your club loses. I was recently asked by a colleague if you watched the game Dinamo recently played and lost. I say I wasn't alone outside, but when I got home as soon as I opened the door, I knew what the score was because the quiet mass was at home. So, you should never look at that narrow prism negative, but by laws, actions, openness, all the possibilities you, we all have to influence it to be better. I'm sure more of those pictures that were taken in the last century, those broken heads, the dead, that those pictures that we went on, but again we need to take a step, I totally agree with those who said listen to fans and listen to associations, listen to fans and listen to associations, but I always think that these ugly things can best be solved by the fans' associations amongst themselves. They know exactly who's making the mess. And you have to keep your eyes open so it doesn't happen. We experience this law on confirming the convention as something that says that Croatia is going in a good direction and a good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6710	Thank you. Before we move to an individual debate, I would just like to point out that after the debate on this point is concluded we will immediately go to the point, so here are your colleagues and colleagues who have come forward for this not being here from your clubs, inform them, we will not take some three-quarter hour break, no matter what, but immediately after the debate on this point we will go to the club's point of view. Here, and now, as I said, let's go to individual debates and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative, Angelo Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6711	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrades and colleagues, please allow the representatives of the MUP a few words on this subject. The first objective of this Convention is to provide under a)safely, b)protected, c) Welcome environment at football matches and other sports events. So the emphasis is on a safe, protected and welcome environment. It also sets out certain concepts such as security measures, safeguard measures, service measures, agencies, stakeholders. So here's the definition of stakeholders, the shareholder means the viewer of local communities or other stakeholders who have no legal or regulatory responsibilities but who can play an important role in helping football games or other sports events be safe, protected and welcome inside and outside the stadium. And now I really don't see what part of this convention is controversial. If we're talking about cheerleading freedoms, the hooligans kicked out a cop around and lit cars and motorcycles, during and after the game, injured 15 police officers, my barica got her teeth kicked out because our place is called the Dalmatian girl, a bloody derby. Does that belong to cheerleading freedom? Is that welcome and accepted and from any of these present parliamentary representatives? Yes, I agree that fans must have certain freedoms, to be able to cheer, to rejoice, to light up a torch, and among other things there are no colleagues from Rijeka, so it was nice to see on the Krčko Bridge which the Armada had just organized, magnificently, these are cheerleading freedoms, and breaking out, breaking out an eye, the teeth certainly do not belong to that part. Speaking of cheerleading riots, here's some statistics. So, in 2010, a total of 9,606 sports public gatherings were held, 2019. 23,219, 2010 hired 23,567 police officers at these meetings, 2019. 47,234 means more events and gatherings of less involved police officers. When we talk about the riots in 2010, there were 68 riots, 2019. 52, when we talk about damaged vehicles 2010, there were 28 damaged vehicles by the MUP, 2019. 2, when we talk about the number of damaged objects in 2010. 3, 2019, none when we talk about the number of persons detained in 2010. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 725, 2010 was also submitted 1,134 of the indictments, and in 2019 almost half of the 643, 2010, there were 29 injured persons, 2019. 8 easier, weighing 6 and 2 and/or criminally reported 45 2010 and 2019. 10 It is evident from this statistics that the number of riots in our stadiums is getting smaller, that the trend of these deforestations should certainly be welcomed, which is good, and that is precisely what I believe is still good at security in the stadiums and around them a little bit further through the introduction of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6712	We have a few replicas. He's the first honorary representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6713	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, you have mentioned some examples here, you might say negative about fans, and that is absolutely why I can agree, but here I would say that this convention is actually a positive example. The very convention in Article 8 mentions the relationship between fans and local communities, so here is a positive example that we have specifically in the city of Varazdin. So, the Varteks Football Club that finally found its own home two years ago would have said so in a settlement in the city of Varazdin where the first step was actually to establish cooperation with the local community, with the local committee, where certain works with artificial grass followed, they themselves funded the construction of a reflector, and here in agreement with the local committee, so with the local community go together into a co-financing program of local committee rooms that will actually share and I think that's actually the right example exactly what the convention is talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6714	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6715	That after that old vartex football club fell out of the first league, after he came into financial troubles, he changed his name to the varazdin Football Club, fans were not thrilled with it, so they founded their own club. Just because they weren't thrilled with the change of names, they didn't literally go on some vengeful quest, they were smashing around the city of vehicles, people, and I don't know what not, they started their own club, which works well, they have good leadership, they work with young people with children, and of course they need to be congratulated on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6716	The next one is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6717	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Strick, this is the first part of your presentation just like the former official of the MUP, as a police officer, and I can welcome it, but also through this convention, but the law that we discussed earlier in the previous meeting must not be the focus that a fan group is as much as in any activity, as in any social organization, individuals are a problem and individuals are easily detected and they are the weeds that can make a mess or some crime. Fan groups today also have good cooperation with the organizers, but also with the MUP and I commend that you have just mentioned quality statistics and what the secretary of state has mentioned that the last 10 years we have improved exactly this ratio of all the problems that have been happening in sports competitions and exactly the final number of how many sports competitions are held in the Republic of Croatia, and that is what is positive and what we should strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6718	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6719	Thank you. Of course, a colleague who is not a globally spoken fan group is always a problem for individuals who use these groups to either reach a breakthrough or be visible, noticed, and make riots. With us when we look at the cheerleading groups among the first to join in helping Gunja, this year in the recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake in Zagreb, three years ago the cheerleading group joined in helping firefighters with those big fires down in Split. So all these groups, globally or globally, contribute to the development of our society and do no harm. The problem is always individuals, and individuals should always be detected, removed and removed from these groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6720	The next replica is the respected representative Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6721	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Uncle. Regardless of all the conventions and all the laws, I'm not sure it'll solve the problems in our stadiums. The biggest problems we've had in the stadiums have just been caused by politics. Many politically motivated were both demonstrations and conflicts and riots, and because politics interfered mostly in football and other sports. We don't have to go so far as to remember, from changing the name of clubs to different smaller organized groups that have been introduced among fans so that some cheerleading groups can be stegmatized and named after them. For the last 10 years, we've only got better results for one reason, that's because there's a lot less politics in the stands than before. Let's keep going that way, and I'm sure we'll only meet for the right solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6722	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6723	Dear fellow Members, no law has ever passed a 100% effect, nor will they, but it is precisely why they are brought to give as much effect as possible, and this Convention states a) surely, b) protected, c) welcome environment. I really don't see who's got a problem with not supporting this. So we're all invited to do good to make these riots, the injured, the broken heads as little as possible. And we can only do this with one dialogue and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6724	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Marija Kapulice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6725	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives. Let me briefly refer to the content of this Convention which we have discussed and discussed as a parent committee and to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and adopted without debate and without prejudice to any aspect of the Convention and its meaning and any possible consequences. We've heard from the promoter's representative that he's never been the target of punishment, and he's right. The aim is to create conditions for penalties, sanctions and repression to be as little as possible and if the content of the convention is looked at, then it will be seen that just through the 3 pillars on which it is based, that, that is, here it is. So, this goal of repression and sanctions will certainly not be achieved by turning sports stands into theatres, and it is impossible to expect it to come to someone's mind, but it can turn these sports stands into places where both positive and negative emotions are expressed without violence. The convention is rightly based on this, and research confirms that many fan incidents include not only fans, i.e. problematic and violent parts of fans' groups or individuals, but that the elements throughout this story and poor security management and infrastructure in the sports fields or stadiums themselves, and that is good, and that is the opposite of those who see only one segment in the entire complex content of this Convention. The one that's focused on preventing violence when it's already happened. And it's completely incorrect in confirming this convention to see only pressure, repression, rigorousity towards fans, as some MPs point out. This is followed by a misreading of the provisions of this Convention, which are not limited only to sports venues and a negative statement on international co-operation. When it comes to introducing certain measures outside the stadiums and sports fields and beyond the time of a sports event, I will remind you, I have followed that, that one of the recent incidents between certain parts of the fan groups took place in Shiroki Brijeg, outside of the Republic of Croatia, in another country, do you know who took part in this? As far as I'm concerned, there were fans of Dinam and Širok Brijeg, and one and the other are our fans. Do you know where the incident happened? In front of the church. Do you know who died first? Random passersby. So it's not good to limit the whole sense of applying prevention and all, everything we need to do to make such incidents as little as possible just to the sports stadium itself and only to the time of the sporting event. It is true that no convention will solve the problem itself, that is not the purpose of the convention, the role of the Convention is to encourage problem solving, to achieve some broad consensus on this and to encourage both states, institutions and all of us to act in this direction. So I think that this should be supported, I welcome the purposes and objectives of this Convention, it promotes cooperation between many participants and public and private who are involved in the creation of sport gatherings, including local communities and fans, based on the highest safety and service standards, stresses the need to set effective legislation, to prevent all negative aspects of what should not actually be negative and these are sports and sporting events. The concept is good, and as we've heard, it's based on three pillars, on safety, protection and service, and I think we should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6726	And on your exhibit, we have some replicas, the first of which is the respected Uncle's representative, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6727	Thank you. Comrade Hood, you've noticed that well. The convention has no primarily repressive character but preventive character. The police are not intended only to punish but also to act preventively and act amongst other things the police have just prevented a series of conflicting fans' groups because in time they received information and could take certain measures and actions to prevent it, so I think the police are doing a very good job, I have some information now, there is a transformation in the MUP, and I hope that this department that deals with public order and peace, fan groups, etc. to be spared some larger and stronger cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6728	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6729	Thank you. My colleague Strick, therefore, is concerned and speaks in the concept of one of the three pillars of this Convention is the concept of security that gathers all measures related to the protection of people from injury and to the risk of health and well-being during sport gatherings, and this includes the infrastructure of stadiums and their certification and plans for emergency situations and measures and security measures that protect them on their journey, gathering and in public spaces outside the stadiums and not talking about other elements such as the concept of service, but I think you are familiar with all this, so I don't want to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6730	The next one is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6731	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Capulica, good thing you went in that direction, we are here exclusively focused when we are discussing exactly the topics and the Sport Act and such conventions and preventing riots in sports competitions, focusing exclusively on the game itself, the sports event itself and the attitude of police and fans or viewers. And you've made a good point, and this convention is going that way right now. It's not all about the MUP, it's not all about fans, it's a big responsibility, and it's a big emphasis exactly and it's on the organizers about the infrastructure itself and the organisation of the event itself, but it's also a big responsibility and emphasis on the local community itself because neither fans nor sports fans nor sports fans are just fans of the day when the game is, there are events both before and during and not only around the stadium, so we need to focus a little on both the local community and all the activities they provide with and in collaboration with fans, but also in infrastructure and providing other conditions for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6732	Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6733	Thank you. Mr. Representative, therefore, the local community has a role in all, all three pillars, in the application of all three pillars of this Convention, I would mention here the concept of service as one of the pillars of the convention that contains all the measures designed to make football or other sporting gatherings pleasant and welcome for everyone at the stadium, as well as in all public places where fans and viewers gather, before, during and after the game, so the experience of all major football tournaments and high-risk competitions says that if people and I am talking about those who go to sports events, about fans treated with respect, the vast majority will react politely if the facilities and services are at high standards and if people are treated well, a positive atmosphere is created that will significantly reduce all tensions at the event itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6734	Thank you very much. Before moving forward, honourable MPs Vidović Kristo, I ask you nicely, put on a mask, what you have under your mouth, no use. Put it right over your mouth and over your nose, right? We're going to the next individual debate that will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6735	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I asked you through the replica, State Secretary, when you quoted legal provisions, i.e. The provisions of this convention that have been proposed to the Parliament, I asked you what about the department for those in the solemn lodges while fans are being punished for drinking beer, for drinking alcohol, for drinking beer on hectolitres, for eating broken fish, and that's the problem that provokes fans. What you're doing with teams that are basically their behavior and they're the cause, they're the cause of the problem of fans' groups because provoking those who are in the solemn lodges, who are protected like bear-like bears, those who run across the border when they create chaos in sport, when they send catastrophic messages to young people who are in cheerleading groups, for you need to make a department because they're part of the field, the solemn lodge is also part of the field, and that's not mentioned. We can talk about what's going on, what's the consequence, and what's causing the ladies and gentlemen. You've been talking about cheerleading groups mostly negatively, and of course, hooliganism can't be supported, that it needs to be prevented. The first prevention is the criminal department, it should be added here to the convention, the criminal department in the solemn lodges because they are not subject to the same law as the fans, and it is not right away. They can locate whatever comes to mind, eat what they can think of, and these can't get into the stadium because they drank one beer, if it's such a law for fans, why not for those, not all, but most of those who led to these consequences that are happening, which you have here fellow Capulica has now listed all the negativity that happens through the cheerleading groups. When I'm talking about cheerleading groups, I said in a replica, I'm a man who was also in Torcida, I've been through a lot as a young man, there's a war that caught me when I was 19 when I was kind of interrupted by this series of fan-loving passionate cheers, and now I'm a Hajdukovac, but I'm going to talk about smaller groups, I'm going to talk to an example of my town Sinj Maligani fan group, where there's a small town that was founded in '82, with which we all identified ourselves at that time when Alkar, a basketball club led by the great basketball expert Stipe Vrcan who I greet, the young gentleman, is still a gentleman, who is 80 years old, who left a great trail, unimaginable that Alkar will play with the champion of Europe final cups in '82. A year. We went to school at the time, we stole our parents' sheets, we wrote "Alkar", we wore them, we revived those Sinski Mulligans, and today we exist, and today we basically identify ourselves with this Sinjski with the Mulligans. These people who were at that time, Cmikle, Dumbe, those who were leaders at that time, Milan and the others who were at that time, they left on us all a trail, on us then as young men of 10, 12 years old, left a trail and those groups should be mentioned, small environments. These fan groups are beautiful, gathering young people, in smaller environments that are identified, they are sometimes cut off but believe me that it gives life and charm to those people, either cheering now for a new fellow, new, I think, new, hero club since 1916, has entered the second league this year or for the first leaguer of Sinj Alkar who is branded blue basketball. So I would ask that if you talk about fans, you speak positively. They played a much bigger role in the Homeland War than you can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6736	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6737	Comrade Bulj, we Varazdins have always been good with the Splits, especially during the Homeland War, I believe VII. The Guard Brigade of Puma and IV. The guard brigade of spiders worked well together and literally worked miracles on the battlefield. It was the same with the police, the Rhoda Police Special Forces cooperated very well with your special police force, Bat. If it wasn't just as you claim at cheerleading stadiums, fields, I invite you here to visit, to be my guest, to visit NK Varteks or NK Varteks, come to one game, you'll be my guest so you can see that these claims around the administration, VIP lodges, etc. They don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6738	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6739	Well, first of all, I'd say to this first part of us together as a member of IV. Brigades with VII. The guard brigade ran over the whole Dinara and later in the relief operations, the Storm, the most honorable Operation Storm, the release of the Knin and all that area of ours that was occupied by the great Serb aggressor, so that it would also express his gratitude, the happiness of being with these people, that I met them, and let the dead rest in the peace of God who gave life for the freedom of Croatia. And as for the cheerleading groups, believe me, the cheerleading groups gave more in the Homeland War to humanitarian actions, threats like that. which was a fire in Split or Torcid or an earthquake here in Zagreb rather than a lot, a lot of institutions that were obliged to do that job, and where we parliamentary representatives go wherever we vote, sometimes we vote for their reports, they spend billions and do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6740	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6741	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I would just like to point out that the cheerleading groups that have noble intentions, which with noble intentions come to stadiums to raise the atmosphere, to make a positive move in cheerleading, we need to nurture them, we need to support them, and those you mentioned, those groups that were led by criminals, should be removed from the field at the beginning. We must not even allow them to come to the field because once there they appear there, it is already over, then there are problems both at the stadium in Zagreb and at the stadium in Split and at the stadium in Varazdin. It's not true that there's no problem, there's a problem, when it comes to Mulligans, it's usually people who are prone to alcohol, who are prone to other opiates, they're prone to crime, people like that need to be out of the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6742	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6743	So I have nothing to add, I would just say once again that every group in society has individual excesses, as extensive as in Parliament, in government, and in cheerleading groups, and of course there should be a legal framework for those young people not to be, especially young people in that crowd to be seduced by the wrong direction, but that is why it is necessary to prevent them. Here I mentioned my Alkar, my Sinj, recently tired is the legend of Croatian basketball, not only the blue basketball Mladen Pavić Škembo, the whole Sinj was so sad about this man and Croatian basketball, both young and old but this all-connective sport, means sport connects us both in grief and in joy but we can't metaminate the Stigm on fans only, we have to prevent because fans can do a lot of good things that they have done in many threats in the Republic, I repeat much more than the institutions that are in charge of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6744	The next replica is the respected representative of Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6745	Dear colleague Bulj, you have well-detected where one of the problems is and indeed here I would suggest to the Secretary of State that, as we worry about alcohol in the stands, in a literal sense de facto and de jure are analysed by all those who enter the vaults and forgive me for this intervention, it might be good to do an analysis not only of alcohol but also of a powder that is so fond of getting into the nostrils.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6746	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6747	Well, I would, I'm okay with it myself, and I said to make it here for the solemn lodge, you certainly drink quality wine there, you sniff quality cocaine, but that nobody controls, and they're all guilty of the signs of the cheerleading group, and that's why we give the Stigm to wear it in society. And I think that the prevention and their activities and their energy of community can be done a lot, so we didn't get him something that we were militaryly equipped with, trained, but we were motivated to do a positive thing, a struggle for freedom of the Croatian people, so we can both fan groups and their energy that they showed in threats can be directed in this direction. However, when we see a solemn lodge as one who has brought sport to, to, most of all, football flows across the border without any problems and still mocks the other. Therefore, I think you're right here should be introduced Thank you....testing in the solemn lodges. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6748	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6749	The Honorable Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, the MPs here are before us the Law on Confirmation of Convention 218, the Convention that is needed, the Convention that definitely balances relations in both the Republic of Croatia and in all signatories of the Convention, and it defines the transfer and lifts security and protection and guarantees a friendly environment at football matches and other sports events. In fact, I think we should support this convention. This Convention is not aimed at anyone negatively, but it is interesting as it has been mentioned definitely here, and the whole debate today is being held practically on football and the convention itself highlights football matches and other sports events. I as a athlete, a longtime athlete here in a way I can say no to being offended, but it turns out that besides football, all other sports are minor, insignificant and there are no problems around them. And apparently, the problems of cheerleading and fans only appear at football matches and that's evident from this convention, it's evident from all the games, sports events, etc. Why is that? Here, there were a lot of speeches, but definitely the Law on Sports, the Law on Fans, whether it's rigorous enough or not we can talk about it, but definitely something in this direction should change not only to point out football as one of the problematic sports, but that sport is football like all other sports and fan groups that connect to football itself not to jump out of other fan groups that cheer in other sports. But when we talk about cheerleading groups that have always been current throughout history, throughout history have been in some way and important, here we remember at the time of the Roman Empire in Justin's day we had green and blue fan groups that almost destroyed the empire. So the connection between politics and fans has always been there. What I would paraphrasise as a professor of kinesiology, a professor of history at the Faculty of Kinesis, is that politics is a father and mother of sport and that's it. Here's no politics, no budget funding, no sports in the Republic of Croatia. We need to be aware of that. There is no sport without the financing of municipalities and cities of their sports communities without funding from the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Ministry of Sports has no meaning at all of the functioning of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Whether it is a problem or not, we can talk about it and look at it in various ways. What arises is the problem, if translated, passed on to exploiting these very influences. Here, I'd be happy if, together with our colleagues, we could influence as well as this convention itself says that it attends football games uninterrupted, other sports events, that we don't have a chance to watch hooliganism at football games, that we don't throw pyrotechnics at football games, and that we can simply get away with the football and football fans as something negative. I hope that these debates today, and all of us together, will do everything to make sure that in the future it will not be like and just as the convention itself says that they are joining, means fans' associations, local communities, clubs, authorities, all together have to try to create a pleasant, pleasant environment for all those who want to watch football games. Unfortunately, often it is not so, often it can be quite different, and here I hope that this convention will also contribute to the improvement and quality of sports events themselves, especially those cheerleading and the reduction of tensions at these matches.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6750	We also have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6751	Thank you, so here's the thing about your presentation you touched something that actually has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda itself, but it has to do with our corrupt Croatian reality. You mentioned funding sports through the Ministry of Resorno, as well as through JLS. I will point out something that is well known to me from practice, which is the fact that at local levels mostly local officials are located in the bodies of various sports associations, very often contrary to the provisions of the Sport Act. We bear witness to the fact that the sport inspection on these issues failed to make any step, and that is where we come up with the problem that arises from the fact that in two different laws these rules have been resolved differently, so that officials in a bad way are called upon to the Law on conflict of interest. Do you feel that it is necessary to remove politics from sport and will your political option do anything in this direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6752	Thank you very much. It's not exactly about confirming the Council of Europe Convention, but if it wants to be answered by a representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6753	Yeah, in any case, funding local and national sports without budget funding wouldn't exist. So sports in Croatia without funding from any budget would not exist. However, I agree with you and I am certainly one of the examples that have been set. I got out of my mind, and then I got out of the position of any sportsman when I got involved in politics, and I think that's the way it should be anyway. There are sports communities based on programmes and points, i.e. and then finance sports on both regional and national grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6754	The next replica of the respected representative, Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6755	Dear fellow Yankees, I agree with you and your findings that we should separate the issue of cheerleading groups from the hooligans. We were just witnessing a recent earthquake in Zagreb where the Bad Blue Boys fan group showed that it was extremely human and valuable and honest guys who first practically organized themselves that morning and helped at Peter's hospital to take care of little babies and, and their moms. Well, it would be good if we were in public to single out those who are hooligans, who create problems, and to respect and appreciate both Bad Blue Boys and Torcedas. So when we remember the Homeland War from these ranks, the first Croatian defenders just started. So we need to separate those who cause problems in stadiums, who spend alcohol, throw torches and those that are really positive and human boys.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6756	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6757	Absolutely, I think the convention itself is talking about it, talking about integration, talking about better integration, so I think that's one good way and what we all always say every misdeed has its own name and last name, so hooligancy has its name and last name. I think the police are doing regular shootings at games and I don't think it would be a problem to single out exactly what the triggers are or who are themselves the factors of various illegal activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6758	The Republic also has a respected representative, Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6759	Your Honor, I agree with you when you said that there must be a lot of high-quality athletes in all sports and that as a society, we must look at the complete whole range of sports resorts to be safer and better and more visible. But one thing we must not forget for sure, this convention is good and it is good to be, that we all grow up together as a society, but we must look at these young people, what they give is love for their clubs, and in that act we must always strive to both in law and in this debate, that these young people leave their youth with a lot of love for clubs, that many of our athletes go, thank God, go abroad, to the better tomorrow, and that our fans are always with their club and that in such a way we must also value ourselves That love. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6760	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6761	Well, of course, the goal of all, so I think so and those fans is to be responsible stakeholders and their fan groups and to be contributors to quality development in general society, and I think here's what you said, this convention is, in fact, talking about it, and I think we all need to support it together, and in those cases, the negativity that we should punish in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6762	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the honourable representative Marin Miletic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6763	Dear Mr. Reiner, Vice President HS, State Secretary, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. They say Latini “Repetio est mother studiorum”, so it is important to underline at the end of this part another story since I think there is a kind of discrimination. The mouths are always used to people when they talk about fans when they're so hot when they're supposed to cut them off, and I'll do it again. The fellow citizens who are fans, very specific stories of Rijeka, Armada in the northern tribune cannot come because they say you're forbidden to wear masks, it's forbidden for boys of my Word to wear masks on the northern tribune, and then to the central tribune those same fans can't come if they don't put masks on. About the pace of the seas! What's going on? Who's gonna take responsibility? Should we re-organize in Rijeka in some legitimate protests? The second story, if you drink two beers, you're normal, you're peaceful, you're friendly, you're happy, you're happy, you're singing domestic... you're singing songs, you're 68 years old, but you're from Kvarner, you come to a game, you're a field of hop, you're smoking 0.5, you're up to two years of banning, the most restrictive law, up to two years of ban every week you have to report to the police. Is that democracy, that way? Over the back of Croatian citizens, through those who love their club. I don't know if you know, and I'm telling you from experience how many young people spend their money so they can go on tours, so they can follow their club every weekend, it's a huge financial expense that these people do because they love something, because they're not sorry to take any kind of sacrifice, and then financially to show how much they love their club. Lawmakers and this whole story again show they haven't been communicating with the base, not communicating with the fans. And I'll repeat, we all together, we all build a fair state, fair society, it's unacceptable that people who were patriotic predators before the Homeland War, drive forts to become millionaires, it's unacceptable that some before the Homeland War didn't know how to sum up, and after the Homeland War, entrepreneurs who build millions of people, it's unacceptable to kill people at sea, it's unacceptable to kill people in traffic, and then because it's powerful, because it's full of money then for years and years until the end of the war, and it takes these conversations and judicial proceedings until it's all out of date, it's inadmissible, it's not good, it's not fair. Croatian citizens do not want such a state, we want a state of justice, we want a state of honesty, and then these Rijeka fans who have more than 100 rescues, 100 rescues are arrested under false charges, the name and last name on the cover of the New List, and the name of the pedophile reportedly from the Jutarnji list is hidden for days. Is that a fair country? Who will tell you who these people are who are the pedophiles of this society in every way to our children? Don't we have a right to know, wherever they are? From church, sports, anywhere. So, our fans were good in '91, Zoran Miletic, my last name from the river, '91. He applied to go to the HOS, our fans were good, Allen Fucker in '91. from Switzerland came in September to apply as a volunteer of the Homeland War, Walter Lulić at 19 years of age entered the Civil College went to war, Dean Christmas last leader of Armada, in the second semester of the Building School, told his mother, I spoke before my colleagues in February, says Mom go defend my country as soon as I turn 18, and mother as Mother, come on Deane, you're talking nonsense. And Dean fills up in class and says people I go and go to the railroad and go to war for four years. Is that what these guys deserve? Today when they come to be treated as notorious criminals, and according to notor criminals, it depends on how much money they have, so some can do anything, some can build villas of 10 million kuna on desert islands, some can buy whatever they want. You think that's possible? I'd say not for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-18-0.u6764	Thank you very much. This would lead us to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
