ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187063	Let's go to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gas market, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, distinguished parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. Subject law is in line with Directive 2019/692, which is concerning the amendment of Directive 2009/73 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas adopted on 17 April 2019. The Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act seeks to respond to obstacles to completion of the internal natural gas market resulting from the absence of the application of EU market rules to transport pipelines leading to and from third countries. By amending and supplementing this law, it aims to ensure that the rules are applicable to transport pipelines linking two or more Member States within the EU, as well as to transport pipelines leading to and outside third countries. In this way, the consistency of the legal framework within the EU is achieved and at the same time avoids distortion of competition in the EU internal energy market, as well as potential negative effects on security of supply. Furthermore, this law increases transparency and provides legal certainty to market participants, especially investors in gas infrastructure and system users in respect of the legal regime applicable. The transitional and final provisions of the proposed law also determine the obligation of the gas storage system operator in the area of distribution of storage facilities, suppliers in the public service obligation. In particular, the rules on the use of the gas storage system, which brings in the gas storage system operator, must be based on the provisions of this law to implement the distribution of storage facilities before 1 March 2020 and inform suppliers of the results of the obligation of public service, as well as the terms of the contract and the means of transfer of the right to contract storage services. This avoids legal uncertainty and uncertainty regarding the way the storage capacity is purchased by the supplier in the public service obligation in the next storage year, and all for the purpose of security of gas supply in the Republic of Croatia. The original text of the law is practically the same as it was in the first reading because there were no important interventions by the government and by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187065	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187066	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The price of gas is in relation to supply and demand. Global gas demand increased by 12.5% in 2019 and global demand will double by 2040. LNG terminal in Krk, transport and storage of gas for Central and Eastern Europe, a project that has been in place for years, and would not bring economic benefits, cost-effectiveness, energy security to Croatia and, whether it is strategic interest or more important local interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187067	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187068	Dear... Agent Kirin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't fully understand the question, but I'm pretty sure you wanted to ask if the LNG project was going its course. It's going. Is the way the gas transport works even better than it was, say, a few months ago? Yeah, 'cause the reversible-flow compression station is operational. So Croatia is in a situation where the transport system is gas-efficient, and when the connection and release of the LNG terminal operation happens, we get a new supply direction, which is additional security for Croatia and additional business opportunities in terms of gas trading and marketing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187069	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia will speak to the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187070	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Energy, colleagues and colleagues, and I particularly welcome you, dear citizens. Energy, along with food, has become of course, and finance, one of the media influences on the world, achieving geopolitical and geostrategic goals, and it uses all major forces, especially those countries that are energy producers. It is certain that gas in this sense is very important, and we know who the largest producers are, where the world's largest gas supply, is the area of Caspian Lake, the Soviet Union, the Arab Peninsula, the United States and some other places. In that sense, the question is, what does this law we are discussing today mean to us? You see, it is said that this law is in line with EU directives, but the question is whether Croatia has a strategy, whether this government has an energy strategy? There's no such strategy, even though there's something on the paper that can be found. We're in one unconceptional state. When we talk about gas, I, respected citizens, would only remind you that Croatia has produced about 80% of the gas for its own needs until its independence. Now that percentage of domestic gas production for its own needs has fallen to about 40%. So he cut himself in half, cut himself in half. So here's the thing. What's the crucial question here? The key question is whether Croatia will turn to greater domestic gas production, as possible, or whether, as in recent years, it will become only one in a series of customers from the world gas market. And you see, that's what they're turning us into. That's what they're turning us into. In that sense, the question is also asked, so-called. gas independence, let's say, gas addiction. I said that only 40% are produced from domestic sources, but now the LNG project is being pushed into the meaning of the gas intruded that would land on the island of Krk. For us economists, for the economic profession and for anyone who has a grain of common sense in his head, it is clear that this project is invaluable and environmentally potentially dangerous. Why is that? If this is a good project, if it needs to be looked at by EU unity, solidarity, then why have some EU countries not gone to.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... means in a joint venture, to make, to be a participant means co-owners and to simply be a joint project. Instead, they gave EUR 100 million, so here are you Croats, not to say we didn't help anything, but you'll pay the biggest in the state budget. As we know none of these surrounding countries, as Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, what I know, did not report Slovenia, did not report Austria too, did not report the capacity to make this project worthwhile, but it is pushing. This is called diversification of gas supply to reduce dependence on one direction, for strategic reasons, Russian gas. And we all understand that, but if there's a dilemma here, it's very simple. Instead of building it, it was supposed to return to domestic production from 40% again to 70, 80%, and then it was much easier to talk about from whom we could still buy gas. On the other hand, why Croatia is not active, proactive when it comes to this continental supply, means across the country via pipelines, gas pipelines that are all mainly run from the Caspian lake area and one of them is so-called. The Trans-Anadolian gas pipeline that is coming, meaning it's not from Russia, but it's down from Azerbaijan and these other countries in Kazakhstan, it's crossing through Turkey, it's going to reach these countries down it means Bulgaria, it's coming through Albania and it's going to come guessed, it should come to the port of Ploče and then by the Fiera pipeline to go to Italy. Why aren't we Croats in Croatia talking about it? Why don't we talk about something else? So there's always hearing what someone else is going to say about what's his other interest. So there is no economy in LNG and we will pay Croatia's citizens with more expensive gas and it is just coming. And dear citizens, while I'm telling you this, you need to translate to yourself right now that for the next few years, that this bill will come for payment one day someone will tell us from television today is the price of gas 20, 30 or I don't know how much higher, higher. But it's time to stop it. Is there any way? Well, of course the election's coming. We can solve everything in the election. And you, my fellow citizens, think that I will not be able to solve a small individual's affairs, but if 200, 300,000 or 500,000 of such individuals come out, and that day you are emperors, you are kings, but if you sit at home you'll get 20, 30% of the gas bills bigger. Not just gas, but in the election, we solve everything. The dilemma is simple, get out or don't come out. If we don't get out, this will continue, this apathy and the imperceptibility of the Croatian state and society and the economy. Let's see how another country solves these problems, directives, etc. You see Germany, so what it's building, it's building a pipeline called North Stream 2 that goes through Baltic to Russia, from Russia to Baltic to Germany. And the entire EU, which means it builds the opposite attitude of the EU, contrary to the US's stance, but the Germans are Germans. They are considered bosses in the EU and therefore they continue, no one can do anything to them. And I understand that and I support them. Why? So they will not sacrifice the interests of their people and their economies in order for some reason to put an end to the construction of northern 2. That's the only thing they do, one of the few do Croats. When I was in Moscow last June, at a meeting in Russia, I see, you know, respected citizens still worth the EU's embargo on trade with Russia, when I get there to see French, German cars, Italian can, Spanish, French wines, there's nothing. I have not seen any Croatian products, but you see the Croatian government is already and wants to be more Catholic than the Pope, so it simply stopped selling those 5-6,000 tonnes of Mandarin from the Neretva Valley, they could not be sold in Russia. And that's who knows how much it's thrown away, etc. You see, there are a whole series of examples, today we're talking about the Gas Act, so the gas strategy of Croatia that needs to be brought into line with the European one. So which is, so we see that there is no European brothers of a single strategy policy when it comes to gas, there is no one you can see doing it their way. France and Germany are doing their part, and you, according to this one servant mentality as this government does, do it. Can Croatia be different? Well, of course he can, of course he can. The question of the determination of the people who run a particular country doesn't matter whether it's small, medium or large, and we don't see it today either. So Croatia must consider other supply routes indeed, if we cannot produce enough gas for ourselves in the future, we must see others, see other supply routes and these continental ones. What's economically invaluable, no matter what he's told us, beware of you Croats, you know don't depend on just one supplier, so let's just let it go, participate with us in this joint invaluable project, so we'll say okay, so if you participate 50% then at least that much, then you can. So, you have to break up urgently with this policy and with this practice of doing something, and it's always over the media that it's in favor of the Republic of Croatia, that we're going to be, that we need to reduce that independence about one supplier, and then they hit us in the pocket, you know. Well, that's what it's been like for the past few years. In that sense, and to conclude, I don't think about it too much, there is no elaborate energy strategy in general, we know that MOL has been sold and that, still the story goes on, no refinery has been restored, and before a month, two, three are once again talking about 4 billion even so constantly looping, cheating, giving false hopes, and of that, not living. We really need to get inside ourselves, talk to ourselves, and we need to put an end to this. I repeat, the only solution is to solve and therefore, to absorb this issue of energy, energy, energy policy, in this case and gas, that is, or let's say for the end, just to see one more thing. How is it possible for a small company a few years ago that had only a few million kunas to be today the main gas supplier for the Republic of Croatia? As an economic expert, it's not unusual for me why it is, so everyone can take off, so from 100 kuna to a few billion kunas. Someone's gonna say, so listen to Lovrinovic, you're gonna have state capitalism or some socialism, but I wouldn't say that, but I find that interesting. Why does the state move away from energy, from gas supplies and so on, so it's not like the state sector is so stupid and when it comes to key energies like them can't work, etc. etc. Dear citizens, when we enter deeper into the analysis of all this, we see that every important segment in this country is being broken down, in this economy, in this country, why? Driven by personal interests, by the interests of certain groups, and that there is no state policy here, you know. The Republic of Croatia is only a formal state, or it is a state in the right sense of the word, but for certain stakeholders, it is their mother and other stepmothers. So in that sense, respected citizens I invite you once again at the end of this debate we can all settle in the elections, it's all in our hands, that day you're in charge when you circle, I have nothing else to tell you, we don't have enough, we see every day what bad laws are being passed here, I invite you to come out, to break up with that practice, you see here are the main objects of conversation burning on the fassier of this or of that still partisans and Ustasha, it's just that on the scene politics divides about this or that and they get interesting about it because there are great masters. Why? They don't know anything else about respected citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187071	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Sadja Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here I will try to get back on the subject, and that is the Law on the regulation of the gas market and this saying that in 2018, we had the adoption of this law the first time and the amendments, or the first reading of this proposal today, we had about 2-3 weeks ago, so somewhere and this final version, finally reading or the final proposal of the law is essentially different from the first reading, and I will therefore repeat only what I said when I first read it, and that is that the SDP's Club supports this part of the security of storage gas supply and these higher norms as regards the European Directives, but what we want to stress, which is essentially the essence of this law, and that's the final deregulation of the market which is essentially in force in 2021, and that is the essence of everything that happens in this law, and I'll only repeat here what we want to say to the European citizens, as well as to the first time we said to the European citizens. gas collection in the Republic of Croatia, so you told us in the first reading, this is what we can expect to see gas collection in 2021, so today let it be recorded when the SDP is in power for a year that when it collects gas that the HDZ is responsible for it, not SDP, that you do not tell us that then,... Here's my colleague Shucker, calm down, everything's fine, so we'll be 10 years from now. When you may once again be in a situation to manage the Republic of Croatia you would not speak, if you were growing the prices of gas, the gas was accumulated, let's say here is a fellow Boric exactly how, in 10-15 years, I see it. Say, hey see when you were then the gas grew, when we are now falling, etc., so that today, because of the Croatian public and because of history, it remains recorded that the gas collected during the SDP government's time is because the HDZ Government, after the recognition of the secretary of state, has deceived the European Commission and has prolonged the deregulation of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia for 3 years, so it is clear that it is also the purpose of this law and the essence of everything that happens, we can expect to collect gas in the Republic and therefore the SDP Club of Representatives will not support this final bill proposal as we have said in the first reading, and this, I have talked a lot about the LNG terminal and all that is happening on the island of Krk and that the Secretary of State is very well aware of my position and the position of the SDP Club of Representatives, here is now and the colleagues of Ahmetovic, who will certainly talk about it now and the following opportunities. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Anyway, we're not gonna support these changes and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187073	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Miro Totgergeli's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187074	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. As we have heard earlier, it was recently in the first reading, it was 23.1. here in the first reading and there were no important proposals or objections to the text of this law, and what most of the law itself refers to, therefore, to the EU Directive of 2019 which tries to level it, so that the conditions applicable between countries within the EU, and related to transport pipelines, apply to those transport pipelines that are in the EU area, but also to third countries or when they go from third countries to EU countries. And it's commendable that this quickly began with amendments to the law so that the directive could be introduced as soon as possible. We also heard that this law also brings new transparency, so it is commendable. What is significant when changes to the law are already being made, then proposals in Art. 19th, 20th and 21st, everything goes hand in hand, and for that 31st March 2021, when we no longer have a regulated price of gas, but I must stress it, for the household, because for entrepreneurship the market principle has been working for years and entrepreneurship is used to it, there are no specific remarks and there has been no drastic jumps from month to month, or year, so we expect that there will be no significant changes in the price of gas or in 2021 unless something particularly significant and great happens on the world market, which could then affect that price of gas. I don't want to talk here on behalf of the club to pollomise with colleagues who spoke before me, but it's important to stress that the gas transport company in the Republic of Croatia, so our Plinacro is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia since 2002, the underground gas storage facility is also owned by Plinar, so it means 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. We had the energy strategy here on the agenda a few days ago, so then, the truth works, we need to find out that we have an energy strategy and precisely in this energy strategy where we force renewable energy sources in the coming time, but because this gas in the energy strategy is significantly represented, but not in a way that we only use it for thermal energy and not in a way that we increase it in the total amount of energy consumed, but rather a significant role we are playing as reserves in the production of electricity from renewable sources where we are increasing the capacity of power to produce electricity with gas, but we are even reducing the total gas consumption of production. So, a very well-developed energy strategy and then in all this, and therefore these amendments to the law are very important to us because we need to open the gas market after 21 years, it is also necessary because it is intended as a significant energy in the coming time of our country, and in these changes we are also editing the part that is related to gas storage where, when March 31st 21 comes, we will no longer have to intervene in the law because we have done so now. Why is it important to vote and pass this law as soon as possible? Well, because we have a different version of gas when it starts for a few years. We have a warm year when it starts, and we have a storage year when it starts, so since the storage of gas, the storage year starts in early April, then it's good that everything we prescribe by the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the law, that we bring it before that time so that all the participants who are related to the gas market can prepare it for that 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187075	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, it's Mr. Stjepan Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187076	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. So, not repeating everything, I just want to draw attention to a few things, maybe from the first, from the first reading. However, it is certainly the reason for the adoption of this law of harmonisation with the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, and I think that we are talking first and foremost here about two key things, to ensure that the rules applied to transport pipelines connecting two or more Member States are also applicable to transport pipelines leading to and from third countries. What do we want to do with this? Of course, when we talk about security as one of the main things regulated by the Gas Market Act, and I will return to it later, there are also rules and measures for safe and reliable production, transport, storage, etc., so as well as rules relating to customer protection, which will also be quite important to me later. In fact, what we're doing here is bringing the part where we're talking about selecting suppliers in public service obligations or so on. a guaranteed supplier. Now it's no longer possible but the agency's obligation to conduct a tender for a new supplier, so it's mandatory. There is less or less harmonisation and what we have heard here today is not so directly related to these changes, it is related to the Republic of Croatia's strategy for one security supply of energy, specifically gas, independence absolutely. There I also mentioned the LNG terminal in Krk where we have to make an anticipation of everything and be prepared for all possible earthquakes, events on the market. We know that we're falling with the production of gas from our own sources, that we're going to be more and more dependent on imports, so in one two years, I think even 20% will be less production. We haven't done too many of those shots of research, there's also a stir of the public, first of all today, and we have tens of miles from our shores and they operate on technologies 30 and over. But we haven't found an alternative in time, and we need to make sure that our citizens have security and cheap supplies. That's the point, the point. When we say safe, it means I can count when needed, it means it's safe in terms of protecting the rights of customers. And in this direction, I and in my first reading debated that we are going one more step where we can regulate it within this law, so I have submitted two amendments, although they will not be able to enter the procedure because they do not refer to these articles that we are discussing today, but they refer to the law, and then I suggest that the Proposer either go with his amendments or offer exactly something that is aimed at that solution. And it's about something that I've talked about here several times to protect exactly and increase the safety of end-users or customers, specifically hosting the obligation of distributors or transport system operators to deliver and install carbon monoxide detectors wherever we have a gas boiler specifically used for the production or heating of hot water or sanitary water or heating itself. In fact, I don't have to repeat now what it means and in the unsavoury events of carbon monoxide poisoning in security in everything that, especially during the heat, is happening, so when we talk about security and supply, but the safety and use of this energy. And I think that, specifically in Article 17, it can be prescribed that the right to measure the amount of carbon monoxide in the air which is required to provide an operator of the distribution system on its own cost and to recognise it as the stated right of the final buyer and the obligation of the distributor. These detectors no matter how much they cost to cost one human life doesn't have a price. I really think it's working up to 100 kuna just one detector maybe even less. So that's something that we're going to be walking into a corner thinking about the safety of our citizens themselves. The second amendment is more of a nomotechnical nature. So I'm asking, since they've got the promoters of the same amendment before they take the law or start with their own and open that door so that we can change it or accept it in a way that I think it's absolutely important for us to protect every citizen, and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of them are using gas boilers today, I don't know how old they are, whether they're being regularly serviced or not, and with this if we save one life, and we're not saying that there are more than 30 poisonings per year, we did what we really need, and that's guaranteed that security and we guarantee at least that security in supply, not only in supply but also in use. Of course, the HNS Club will accept this Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Gas Market, not to repeat everything that is important. We think we need to run a smart Energy Strategy, we need to know where we want to be, what we want to give to our citizens because all these discussions we've had and suggestions for and they won't fall into the water when tomorrow's gas price jumps twice or I don't know how much or don't give God yet and he's gone. And then they'll wonder how, why and who's responsible, then there won't be time overnight to make a terminal, or properly position themselves on the energy European market as someone who's an important factor, and that's what we want here, to ensure people's safety of supply of energy, economics, and actually when I tell the citizens, I mean the economy as a whole is not going to go. That's why the HNS club will support this one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187077	We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here after the introductions of the clubs, especially when a man would refer to this presentation by the last Mr. Curaj, he should always be careful when the HNS proposes certain meters. We've had a negative experience with divisors, now that we hear that we need to reassemble certain meters, in this case, the presence of gas, people can always ask themselves based on this negative experience with divisors, which is behind it. But let's now be concrete, i.e. try to show that there are certain problems that have not been regulated for years, and unfortunately as fellow Djujic said before me, this will cause probably a total deregulation in a year or slightly more than a year, will cause a rise in gas prices in the Republic, when we talk about 40% of households using gas. When we talk about our industry having the most expensive gas probably in competitive countries, i.e. comparable countries that are around us and that are direct competition in certain industries, then we ask the question, how does the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government in which HDZ and HNS are based take care of energy independence and how it wants to help citizens, which is why we have not invested in research for the last 3.4 years and possible new gas fields that would be discovered in the area of the Republic of Croatia. That is why every year domestic gas production is falling and now it is moving to about a third of the needs, which should be met for the industry and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. it cannot be taken away from the impression that it is consciously ignored. I also think the problem is that INA is not a priority because we know that INA is unfortunately not in control of Croatia, i.e. that crucial decisions are made by Hungarian owners, although Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to take over the INA three years ago and to return it to the INA in Croatian hands. This has not happened, as has a whole series of other promises we have been listening to, but easy for HDZ promises and promises from Prime Minister Plenkovic. The bigger problem is that indeed, INA does not work on it daily, does not invest in new wells, i.e. new gas fields, research, is the only concessionary in the Republic and that there are no fields discovered 30, 40 years ago, there would probably be no quality gas production in Croatia at all. So, on the other hand, it is clear that the whole market is pushed towards those who are gas dealers and who import gas into the Republic of Croatia. It's bad for our citizens because of what the price of gas is going to be higher and higher every year. This is bad for our industry because we also cannot provide certain protection mechanisms from the negative consequences of the change in gas prices year by year. And that's bad because a country without energy independence has no elemental protection for its citizens, industry and cannot be fully considered independent, and certainly it is not independent of the trends that move on gas prices and energy supplies, we have seen the impact Russia has on the EU and EU countries over the past few years, and I think it is necessary for Croatia to start thinking in a way to try to achieve as much energy independence as possible and that the government is focusing and trying to make some effort in this direction. So, these stories and the adoption of laws that should be taken care of as citizens, and ultimately we see that there will be no results, it is not serious at all that the law, after the first vote was held on January 23rd, means the whole procedure until the second reading of the discussion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the context of the HS, takes place in less than a month and then the question is at all why two readings were needed. The amendments that have been included in the law are minimally technical and essentially not changing the law at all and shows you that something that we have delayed for 3 years, the need of HDZ to bring, the last few months and the HNS is the need to bring the last few months of the current government. It would be much fairer if when they were already stalling, it was commended by the secretary of state in the first reading, that they had stalled the EU commission and in some way thrown out the agreements and commitments that Croatia had made, for 3 years, that they had left it for another 6 months for the new Croatian government to make certain decisions and to see how it would be raised on this issue. So what is important here pointed out, it is important, whether we pass this law or not, the Croatian Government does not take care of Croatian citizens and what the price of gas for households will be. The Croatian government does not care at all to allow the industry to have as much a competitive price for gas. Unfortunately, the Croatian government has already started in the 1990s, to reduce in particular in the gas consumption industry because the industry is smaller and smaller year by year, and there is, I would say, one key to the problem, that is, Croatia and its insufficient competitiveness and insufficient investment in the industry itself, i.e. today-to-day and in jobs and the possibility of people staying in Croatia and that in some ways they work in some industries that would potentially enable people to live decently and that they can reasonably say that they are paid for fair work in the Republic. What I want to point out here is that we are not satisfied with, that is, I am not satisfied, and the SDP's Club said it would not support this law because of such a quick adoption, only to fulfill the form and to be fulfilled since 1.1.4.2020. I can introduce certain new rules relating to storage and pricing and storage space, I am sure that this goes the most in favour of private entrepreneurs who have taken up the market in the last 6-7 years. and who have achieved an enormous growth in income and profit, here does not care about, about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or about the industry, it is not how to force INA to invest more in new fields, new exploitation, meaning since 2014. None of the new fields are marked in the Republic of Croatia, nor, nor investigated, nor put into operation. What kind of country and what kind of government that has almost 50% ownership in INA, and no, no, I would say it doesn't work, and the question is at all what are these representatives doing in, in the board of directors or boards in INA, which is why they don't insist on whether they're satisfied with the huge salaries and bonuses that Hungarian owners pay just to have peace and no one put pressure on them there. So, the Republic of Croatia is not doing anything about it in, in the company itself, Minister Ćoric is dealing with who knows what, so it's really very difficult to understand what Minister Ćoric is doing at this point because not in any of these important topics has not been published in the HS, nor in the Croatian public, and it is simply a question of what is the overall energy perspective of the Republic of Croatia, which I think is one of the more important things. So, as far as the LNG itself is concerned, we've debated a lot here, what's the attitude of both the SDP and the local population in Krk is not going to this floating LNG. Unfortunately, it is also not, has not accepted and forced certain things over the knee, but what I can say is that we are very quickly able to change some things about the energy strategy and behaviour of the Republic of Croatia, and this will be certain after the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187079	Mr. Curaj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187080	... Thank you, dear Vice President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleague Maras, two things just to be clear, do you support at the end or not the introduction or obligation of distributors on your cost of installing carbon monoxide detectors? Well, I'm glad you made that point, because I need you to know that this goes to the expense of the distributor, that's the proposal in my amendment and what I've been telling you the last few times. And secondly, if I understood correctly, you're for researching hydrocarbons on the Adriatic and you're staying where I need to be and I'm glad to hear it. And just to remind you, in 2016, the contracts for exploitation and research that lasts 5 years were signed. on land, and last year another 6 additional, at the 8th month the same research contract was signed, so it's not like there's nothing to be done, but that's all on the final strategy that's been done since 2013. So these are the deadlines that we need to talk about, which I was talking about, nothing overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187081	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187082	Thank you very much, so I think only a naive man would think that the cost would remain on the distributors. Well, no company, no distributor will make the installation of these devices without paying for it, without installing it in the price at the end of the gas, which will eventually be paid by consumers, so that's, it's simple, as you would say, to understand and trust me in the end, it will be paid by consumers. I only said at first that we had a very negative experience that I wasn't even aware of when, until I talked to many citizens who didn't see any use in HNS's divisional initiative. So, here's what I said and it needs to be very careful about this installation, and I'm sure it won't pay only distributors, but it'll put into the price it'll charge to the citizens, and eventually it'll pay the citizens, so you should be very careful when you propose something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187083	Now it's Mr. Stjepan's Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187084	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, I'm glad to see you're having a controversy over this, but we need to know a little bit how to determine the distribution fees. Therefore, transport system operators cannot adjust prices on their own. You know who's in charge, you know how to calculate prices and what are fees and who prescribes, how. That's one thing. The other thing, that logic, then it's best that we don't do anything and let it go, so if anyone dies, it's better than if we don't happen to be mentioned or not, or it's someone there that's the HNS proposal, and then you best let people die, but that's the HNS that's the suggestion, if I understand that wholeism best. So let's let people go, put them at risk, let's not act. Why? Because I'm not sure that maybe they won't pay it even though it's regulated legally who, how and why, the distribution fees are prescribed, so no one can willingly, any distributor, I don't know how many there are, 20th, 30th, in the Republic of Croatia, by the mahogany of private companies, can't do it on their own initiative without the approval of the competent agency. But already, even though it may be suspicious, but just as it comes from that HNS Cural, then the amateur people die, aren't we going to do it to make it look like the man did something right, so what's he gonna say? Well, I understood your discourse so well, which I find difficult to understand. Sometimes you have to say no matter what you say, watch what you say, and not who you talk about and remove some personal opinions from us or from some parties, but the important thing to talk about, and I will insist on it, it's not a proposal from the CNS, it's mine, first of all, a personal proposal, but of course the HNS supports. I've handed over two amendments here on this point, about whether I've put on the current issue a proposal to the Minister and I'll continue to do so. If I don't accept it, if I try to do my job, that's what's behind it. It's the only thing that recognizes the need for citizens to recognize the benefits of citizens and work in that direction. Surely anything else that wants to be reduced can and does not have to and does not matter at the end of the line. Another thing, when we're talking about research, I don't know what that was in our common government problem. First, it was said that hydrocarbon research is being done especially on the Adriatic, which will destroy our tourism as green energy should instead be developed, the same one that again makes the same government, the same minister in the government accuses it has guessed, and then somehow one part of it attacks, the other part does not. Today we have platforms about 10 km from our shores, our pearls working with technology 30 years old, nothing to anyone, and that's the problem and it's given up because of public pressure. Tomorrow our neighbors do it, we can't do anything about it, Montenegro, Italy has a 100th of a permanent distinction and we can't do anything, but we won't use it according to the most modern criteria, okay. The same story is repeated now for the LNG terminal, one spatial plan, another spatial plan, predicted on land, predicted floating in phase all right and God gave us never to be needed in full use of this LNG terminal. Why? Because he's a guarantee that the other side won't be able to blackmail us with gas because they know we have an alternative, and that's what we buy, and that's what we pay for. I understand a colleague here who's the head of the community, I've said it before, I can understand it, we all want available energy, everyone wants us to have in their household available energy, gas, electricity everything, but nobody wants to look at the station, the transstation next door. No one wants to do that, but we all want to have the energy available and everyone wants the power connection, and no one wants to watch the trafo station. And always in countries everywhere for the benefit of most minorities have to look at them. He gets a fee, the truth, and God may drop his value of real estate, so someone buys such a property because he's looking at the trafo station right now, but that minority unfortunately serves or a greater purpose is that the vast majority of Croatian citizens have a secure supply of energy or electricity, tomorrow gas. The bigger problem for me is the JANAF terminal in Krk, but gas and ecological, to understand each other, ecologically, but someone did this, today probably would never have been able and it did not prevent Krk from being the biggest tourist pearl on the Adriatic, and the best indicators, and oil. Watch out, oil, but they have technology, water curtains to close, all possible preconditions, and if it's done quality and professionally, then surely there's no concern. Or not, but no one can tell me that oil is fine, and gas is not. Logic dictates. That is why I understand the particular interests, unfortunately, they must always be subordinated to the interests of citizens and the country itself. And I can say that when the lady shows up she defends the interests of her municipalities and her citizens, however, it was in the spatial plan, that is, for those governments in common and it worked out, and one by one, and one by one, and the other, so up there was a little drive, a little one, a little bit else, but generally I can understand that no one likes such an investment in some tourist place. And that's a valid argument for me, and that's justifying and holding a hostage for the whole state and for the citizens tomorrow when the gas goes out, tomorrow when the gas collects 50%, my people are talking about what we're talking about. Someone to freeze from the cold, and that can happen to us. Now that sounds as lame as some virus that appears somewhere you might think, so now something's gonna happen. That's what it sounds like now, for instance. And today, last year we signed an exploitation contract in 6 fields, 2019, 2016 was the first, 5 years they worked, worked, exploited, watched, sought or not exploited, but research wells worked for 5 years, and then if they have enough for the next 25 years is a concession, it's done, but it takes time. And that's what it's all about to think that we wouldn't have this same debate in 10 years, why we didn't make sure of something. Today we're talking about this, today we're talking about the future for 10 years where we're going to be, but there's no political points, it's not about winning, who's thinking about it, who's thinking about more generations, it's about thinking about the next election and how citizens are going to react to what we're saying here. It's important, how they go now, the elections come and that's the most important thing, who's watching for 2 years who lives, for 2 mandates who lives who dies. Now, that kind of thinking has brought us here where we are, and it's all worked out and I respect everything and I respect all the arguments. But we need to think about the well-being of all citizens. So I say once again, no one likes to watch the trafo station for themselves in the yard, and everybody wants to power, so if they don't invent some invisible, non-existent trafostation until then unfortunately, individuals will always have to have something or suffer or anything else for the benefit of everyone. And that's how it is. And we've accepted some things there, and so we're going to have to keep looking, but by the way, we're going to have to say that there's as little radiation as possible, to make it as painless and visual and any other economical, and especially health, that our citizens and we need to discuss it, and not whether or not we need it, and we've already adopted these discussions, and we've gone over and confirmed them, so that when we talk about anything, and about the gas market, and about LNG and tomorrow about hydrocentres and everything else, we know the rules and what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187085	Mr. Maras asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187086	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, how well I understand your debate, given that the Government does not accept or recommend your proposal on the installation of these gas meterers, do you feel that the Government is then putting citizens at risk because you have talked about possible deaths here, etc., so it is unclear whether you are accusing the Government of negligence or not to offer certain solutions that would increase the safety of citizens and whether it is that the government has taken an acceptable risk in view of the need to build these meters into houses at all, but you will agree with me that there is still a negative experience on the parting party, so that on the other hand, do not run away from it. And the second thing, it is unclear what you say is to invest, to explore, and every year, smaller and smaller gas production in the Republic of Croatia, so it is unclear how this work and investment and research are not seen in the production of gas, which is smaller and smaller in Croatia every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187087	Time, thank you. Thank you very much. Other replica And the answer, you're right, go ahead. [[Intruder Curaj: Can I have an answer, please?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187088	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, well, yes, I agree with you, if the government doesn't accept this or make its proposal, then yes, it will make a sin of indemnity and regardless of whether all governments have done it so far, I absolutely don't care. Now because I put it out, because now it's a topic, if it's not done now because no one has thought of it, I don't know why, not at all, if it isn't accepted, then yes, the government will be responsible, no matter what 30 years ago no one has thought of doing it, and that's what I'm going to say here in public. I'm saying it now and I'm going to go public again. I don't have a complex absolutely none because it's something you can and must. As far as research is concerned, and you know well if 5 years of research is being done and then decides to go into exploitation, that it takes, that it can't be done overnight, if something is going to happen in 2016, only in 2021 will it decide whether to exploit and then, as long as exploiting wells are made, we can expect in 3 years, 4 to start doing something better for us as far as exploitation is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187089	- Mrs. Crescent. A dark Taritate, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187090	Thank you very much. Each country definitely wants to be energy independent and that should be the base task of each country, the question is how much is possible, depending on a number of other sets of things. I gave the line to your argument about LNG. I can never understand why we need some things to pay twice. I can remind you of that decision to make a fast road from Karlovac to Rijeka with three lanes, after people were killed there, then it came to mind that it should be a full profile. I also don't understand why a floating LNG terminal was to be operated, so a few phases could have been created on land and could have occurred in the first phase and then behind that. Therefore, the experience that we have, that we like to have half solutions and we love to pay twice, and in the end we know who pays for all the wrong decisions, pays for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187091	Thank you. Now it's okay. I didn't see you lift, please, the answer. [[Intruder Curaj: Can I have an answer, please?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187092	Thanks, I'll try to wave harder. Why is it twice as expensive, why is it floating and not land? The land is 50% more expensive capital, 20% to 30% in terms of maintenance and operating costs, which means that citizens are practically land-based for our safety should pay more. All citizens. Of course, the time limit for building a floating one is 1.5 to 2 years, land 4 to 5. Again, what my colleague Maras was saying, where we are, what we are. And I didn't say as far as the divisors are concerned, since I forgot to replicate it, as some link, the divisors aren't constituencies, they're the ones who say how much someone spent and not how much they'll save, they'll save those who paid for other people's energy, and with them we've got time not to liberalize the heat market until it's spent, and that's... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187093	Thank you. It's Mrs. Now. Mirela Ahmetovic in turn with her individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187094	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. So I had no intention of reporting in an individual debate but here I was encouraged by my colleague Kirin and he encouraged me by the question of whether the local or strategic interest was more important. So I am surprised by my colleague Kirin that this question comes from the man who was elected and whose duty was given to defend the interests of the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County and VIII, respectively. election units. So citizens of the local but who are also citizens of this Republic, you forget too often and too many of you. Do you remember voting on the so-called so-called. Lex LNG? Do you even know what to raise your hand for when you voted for lex LNG? I have, on several occasions, made it clear to the media and explained absolutely every article that you have raised your hand for, both you and your colleagues. The first lex LNG you handed over a piece of the sea at the lowest price in the concession for 99 years. The fee paid by citizens, if the operator's income, today LNG Croatia, and tomorrow who knows which operator is not high enough, we can only ask ourselves what it will be and will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. No one else. Direct citizens of the Republic of Croatia from their pockets. Yeah, and this terminal operation, that is, when I said who knows who's going to operate on that terminal tomorrow, and you made it very clear in lex LNG that the government can decide at any moment to operate on that terminal, hand it over to someone else and to whom, I said in my individual debate when I was talking about implementing the Energy Strategy, but Hungary. Are those colleagues of Kira's strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia? Here's something I've heard from my colleague Curaj, he says we're buying an alternative, we're buying 150m euros in funding from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 100 directly from the budget and 50 from HEP and PLINACRO, and the other 101m euros from European funds are buying an alternative. And you know where those funds came from? They didn't fall from the sky, they're the same funds for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Let's demystify these European funds and funds of eu funds, so the Republic of Croatia pays the EU out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the EU gives as much as it gives, gives how much you are able to withdraw. And look at the wonders, just for the worst project you and that 100 million euros are pulling out of the Euro Funds, adding our 150 million more euros, and you're representing it as if we're buying an alternative because people are going to freeze because there's not going to be any gas. And how about in 2014, the European Commission made a study and presented it, which says that the Republic of Croatia is not at risk if the gas flow stops. I'm not speaking in my mind, my colleague Kirin, there are documents. Read it. It is the same EU, the same European Commission that allows you to build a LNG terminal, the same European Commission that is now asking for a reduction in fossil fuel subsidies, and to increase this sharply increases green energy subsidies. He told his colleague Curaj that I guess we in Omislje and we on the island of Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County are holding the whole country hostage because we are against the strategic project of LNG. Very, very inefficient word manipulation. Why ineffective? Because the citizens of Omis and the island of Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County know more about this project than any of you know here, so when you're all here. So you can't deceive the public either in Omislje or in the Primorje-Gorski County, for nothing. We have proved through history, thank God since the '70s that we are not against strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia, or JANAF, or "Dina Petrochemy", or "3. May," nor Rijeka Airport, watch all of this in one small Omislje, nor against the LNG terminal gentlemen whom we have spent 25 years through the act of the spatial plan narrowed down to the level to which he became reluctant, but acceptable because it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And then the government of the Republic of Croatia, of course HDZ rule with one move of feathers, decides to change that terminal to floating and says one in the spatial plan. Where? To this day, no one has shown it to me in the spatial plan. Don't you think I don't know what the spatial plan says, and I suggested it? Do you think the citizens don't know what it says in their spatial plan, and they've approved it by means of their councilmen? Who are you kidding? Compensation, colleague Curray mentioned compensation, don't humiliate us, don't humiliate us. There is no fee for which Omisalj, island of Krk, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and all the normal part of this country would agree to receive the nakarad environmental most harmful project. We're not bought, we're not bought. There have been some fees offered to Omislim, but unfortunately you haven't been able to buy us, and you won't. Breaking the law will never go away in the Omistry, ever, ever. The bigger problem is JANAF. What about the illegal quarry in Omislim? Does anyone know that there is an illegal quarry in Omislje in the tourist zone, to which state institutions do not respond, and I have been writing and judging and reporting for seven years? Says colleague Curaj that the land terminal is more expensive than a floating one. Oh, come on, I'm based on what he's saying. Based on the study “Econerga” which he wrote in the first study of 2016 that the land terminal is more cost-effective than floating and if, despite the fact that the land terminal is more cost-effective than the floating terminal, it is thought that it is still going on a floating trip, first it must be considered which location. You didn't think for a second, but that's why you paid for that study that says the land terminal is cheaper than the floating one. And then this same "Econerg", the same company from the same means, does a study paid out by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, says that the floating terminal is cheaper. Will the company "Econerg", will the company "LNG Croatia", will you decide which study will be paid from the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Which terminal is cheaper? How dare you even calculate with the cost of a land or floating terminal? Not to mention details and public deception when comparing land and floating terminals. It's a land of six billion cc's, and it's floating at 2.5 billion cc's. Stop fooling the public. The coastal-goran county and the public can't because they know too much about the project and stop the rest of the public. So to conclude, Omisalj and the Primorje-Gorski County are not against the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, but are against violations of the legislation, against the spending of citizens' funds, against the handover of the energy sector to other countries and against the humiliation of common sense. Stop humiliating Omisalj, island of Krk, Primorje-goran County, we know too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187095	Mr. Cresho Whitey was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187096	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ahmetovic, I welcome your performance and your speech, quite emotional and in any case I must say that I am on your side, but I must also say that it is quite naive to think or believe that everyone in Croatia who believes that the people representing this LNG terminal as the strategic interest of Croatia really thinks it and that people believe it beyond the Primorje-Gorski County. So no one believes it except those who have proposed it, who voted it, often not even watching what they voted for. But this is their last, many, many people who have raised their hands or voted for it soon, and after the next parliamentary elections, we will all have a chance together to build a real modern green energy policy of the Republic of Croatia without such narodic, anti-Croatian projects as the floating LNG terminal in Omislje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187097	Thank you, too. I use the opportunity to welcome students and students of the Electrical and Economic School of Nova Gradiška, the first group of 36 people who are here, will come second after. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187098	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Ahmetovic here have really developed a few things. First, you hold a hostage, so you hold a hostage to the rest of the state, secondly on the importance of this LNG terminal that is at sea and important to the Republic of Croatia and third that someone about your spatial plan knows more incomparably than you know who you are and who is looking at it. The story of LNG's terminal isn't since yesterday, the story of LNG's terminal is 20 years old, and if in 20 years, it hasn't really started to solve when the energy situation was much more incomparably worse than it was today, it's clearly being solved over its knee, and it's clear that we really have this tendency to pay twice. I compared it to that fast road that went from Karlovac to Rijeka in the replica of my colleague Curaj, so the idea that we had 3 tapes proved very quickly that when people were killed it was impossible, It's the same story with this LNG terminal. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187099	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187100	Dear Representative Dark Taritash, I understand your debate, but what was the intensity of my debate is to finally take your paws off the Omis. Finally, to take off your paws and as far as JANAF's tanks are concerned. So this summer we had an outflow of foam at sea and then a patching so no one would notice, in the middle of the day, the tourist season. Now we fear the coronary virus, and you are calling for a strategic commitment to tourism, and you are pushing to the sea, so you are expanding the industrial area to the sea. Do you know that in the Omistry three times the size of the space takes over the industry from the residential areas, are you aware of that? But it's not devastating, it's devastating that all of this is being handled against the laws of this country that you have to defend. You who must defend the laws of the Republic of Croatia, you are violating them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187101	Mr. Ivan Kirin, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187102	Dear Vice-President, dear secretary, distinguished MPs, we well know that you've been very eager to defend each other, you've been to, against, remember how the political structures in the Primorje-Gorski County reacted, from the company of Adria, JANAF and at the end of the LNG terminal. First the land terminal, and then the structure was decided that it was cheaper, better, faster to be a floating terminal. Now everything's changed, it's clear, but what's important is that the gas, the most ecological fossil fuel, it's important and the full capacity of the terminal should be 26 billion m3, and in order to be cost-effective, cost-effective construction because it doesn't make sense to build it just for Croatia because it crosses our needs. There should be 1.5 billion tenants, and that's why we're waiting for a deal with the Hungarians. And I think that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187103	Answer, Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187104	Yes, gas is fossil fuel, and Europe is denying fossil fuel subsidies and is now fuelling green or green energy. I'm correcting you not 26 billion cc's, but 2.5 billion cc's full capacity is foreseen for a floating LNG terminal. And do you know what lease this capacity is today? 500 million cc's and how, by forcing INA to rent a piece of cc's and HEP of course to buy a piece of the cc's. And how this will reflect or who will pay for this unnecessary lease of millions of cubics, citizens from their pockets. And now we have a situation where 500 million cubic meters were leased from 2.5 billion if it might be worth it. But there's no buyer, no colleague Kirin. They are not there because it is the most expensive gas in the world, it is not because Croatia is spending its resources on building infrastructure that will potentially need Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187105	And Mr. Davor Vlaovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187106	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you have repeatedly said that you are disdaining the citizens of Omis, Krka, and I agree with you that all the laws and decisions we make here should be first focused on the interests of citizens, and even if they are strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, citizens must be thought about. And here, related to this project, the Municipal Council of Omis and all the people of Krk and the congregations of the Primorje-Gorski County said that against it, the spatial planning documentation said that it is against it and is constantly trying to display this as a strategic interest that is above the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We simply cannot accept it because the same thing is happening in Slavonia, in Slavonski Brod, for JANAF could not get the jobs of Đuro Djakovic who was already working there these tanks but was given a company that has no reference for such jobs, and then they are polluted by water for Easter and ultimately we do not know who polluted the water and who did it. Here's how much this government is thinking about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187107	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates, now it's Mr. Miro Totgergeli's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187108	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we had a chance to hear here that HDZ and this government had cheated on the European Commission in 2018. And that stands out as something very, very bad. Of course it is distorted, of course it is a lie, it is true that the HDZ Government has just agreed with the European Commission the conditions that are then under Law 2018. spent. But we are now going to what is the Croatian Government, the HDZ Government has negotiated with the European Commission and why? So, when the Gas Market Act was passed, a delay was made until 31.3.2021, so this warm season and another whole heating season, nothing changes for our citizens, so it is agreed to remain the regulated price of gas for the household. And now this is being shown as a prank by the HDZ Government to the European Commission. And then in that same speech, colleagues of Djujic, we hear that in 2021, when this regulation stops the price of gas for the household, HDZ is guilty again. If, by chance, after March 2021, the price of gas on the market increases, the market and the price of gas for the household increases. It's HDZ again. So decide whether HDZ did well in 2018 or not? If it's this 3rd year. HDZ did well to our citizens because in 2018 when the price of the gas market was quite high they paid much less. Or in 2019, as the secretary of state said at the first reading of this law, that the price of gas is about 40% lower than the EU average for households, and then HDZ did it again well. So, we have this all the time if we negotiate something with the European Commission, then we cheated on it, and if we don't negotiate then we're not sovereign enough, we're not enough states that, the government that takes care of its citizens, etc. You must make up your mind and the word HDZ is responsible for what the citizens paid 2018, 19th, 20th, and until 3rd month of '21. A lower price of gas compared to other citizens and they did it well. During that time of three years. and citizens, therefore, of the household and gas distributors and gas suppliers will adapt to market conditions, will be taught to operate in market circumstances, and that is why this law introduces these items, particularly related to gas storage, to the full market after 31.3.2021. We heard here today that Europe stands only for green energy and gas is fossil fuel and we heard that then Europe does not want to force gas but green energy. But all those who know anything about energy, who know little about energy, they know that when renewables disappear due to weather conditions, when for any other reason there's a failure, we have to have somewhere in the reserve system. And of course that reserve is just, especially for the production of electricity, optimal right out of the gas, and because we heard that we don't have an energy strategy here today in the debate, and we brought it to HS a few weeks ago, we have it, and that energy strategy predicts exactly the use of renewable energy sources, but also as a guarantee for these renewable sources to increase the capacity of electricity production from gas or increase the power of these capacities, and on the other hand, the same predicts a reduction of total gas consumption. So at this point, we use the most gas precisely for heating, and in this area of heating, we can use renewable energy sources besides investing in reducing energy consumption through the restoration of facades and reducing or increasing energy efficiency. Renewable energy sources in the heating field can come from biomass, there is no other important energy that can be green energy. And that's why gas is one of our key and important energy sources not to force the largest gas-based consumption but to use it as a stock at times when for any reason we have to start power plants to make up for what at some point falls out of renewable energy sources, and in which case gas plays a huge role for us. And it's also interesting that the problem of gas production is dropping, so of course it's falling if we don't have new wells. And if we go to explore new wells, then everyone gets on their backs and says tourism, ecology, etc. So we're constantly at odds. On the one hand, we want green energy, but we don't want enough gas, we don't want LNG terminals, we don't want supply routes, and we want to make sure that in the case of these renewable energy sources, we have a reserve. Imagine how the household reacts, how do consumers react when they run out of electricity? Well, then it wouldn't matter if you gave it to them from nuclear power, give it from anywhere, just give us that electrical energy. And when we need to invest in such energy facilities, then we call for ecologicals. So, the Energy Strategy is well-designed, predicts that the main use of energy in the coming time will be right out of green energy, it is well designed that gas in capacity for electricity generation is growing, but in total production it is falling, which means that we are using more and more renewable sources for thermal energy as well. biomass. And yes, I must conclude, the HDZ is responsible for paying the regulated price of gas in the household by 2018, 2019, 2020 and 3 months 2021, and it was negotiated with the European Commission when the law was passed in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187109	Thank you for now, too, because you have several replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187110	Comrade Totgergeli, you have said one thing that is actually a fact, which is that some HDZ will always be guilty, that some HDZ will always be guilty and in one large majority perhaps citizens will. Also to the vast majority of citizens and the SDP will always be guilty, perhaps only the HNS will be guilty of that can I say,...at their expense something. And the truth is always somewhere in between. And it's hard to admit sometimes, and it's a proposal from a colleague of Maras that sometimes the eternal culprits can do you something good. Now that's what we need to recognize the ideas, the contents, not the forms and those classic divisions that bring us back to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187111	Thank you very much. Mr. Totgergeli's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187112	Thank you. Yes, I agree with you that in the end we are talking about who's guilty, but simply on such a roll call and on such a complex debate in the name of the club a man can't react, especially when it's this government with all the people in that government who are responsible for this, and there's a theory that when something is good, you've cheated, and when something turns out to be a problem that needs to be solved, then it's your fault. Simply a man cannot not react to it, and it is common in fact that in such a way he tries to speak instead of arguments in this House and that is why I reacted first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187113	Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187114	Thank you very much. Mr Totgergeli, you are right, HDZ is not guilty, HDZ is responsible for Croatia losing a complete banking sector, a complete energy sector, a complete telecommunications sector, all of it, but until the 1990s it was 1/1 owned by the Republic of Croatia you HDZ are responsible that today it is not so. Among other things, when we talk about explorations of gas finds since 1990, this INA strategic company that is no longer ours but HDZ is not guilty, but because some others now own it, have done no research, and I don't know if there are new gas findings in new technologies in order not to depend on imports. And as for the sentence that you said, when the renewable energy is gone, I think it's a little contradictory, when it goes away, what, when the sun goes out, when the wind doesn't stop? I hope HDZ disappears before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187115	Thank you, Mr. Whiteman. Before I give you my word, Mr. Totgergeli, I would like to welcome the second group of Electrical and Economic Schools from New City with a round of applause. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187116	I know what you are unhappy that HDZ is responsible for and has led Croatia in the 1990s and 2000s, which is due to Croatia both in NATO and the EU, I know that you are unhappy because at this point we have GDP growth, wage growth, growth in the economy, growth in pensions, I know that it bothers you and I know that you are unhappy. Some of your HSS colleagues are working with HDZ, will cooperate in future, you are breaking up the HSS and acting unnaturally, practically pulling the HSS out of the EPP, so you are not acting like one HSS guy and I know that you are unhappy that HDZ is responsible for a lot of things in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187117	I'll give you Mr. Beljak's word, violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're making a difference between opinions and... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187118	No, well, Mr. Vice President, he's hurt. 238. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Totgergeli was talking about the HSS, he's a member of the HDZ, what he has to say at all about the HSS, let him fill out his access card, let him report to the local organization there, and let him come to HSS, and then let him discuss it. Is what he was saying, in response to my replica he mentioned HSS, what does it have to do with it now, so thank God that we should all cooperate together when it comes to Croatian interests, only the problem that HDZ has always been working against Croatian interests since the first day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187119	Thank you very much. I've allowed you to come to an end otherwise in this HS no one's talking about other parties if you've noticed that, just Mr. Totgergeli. Let's move on, let's move on with the replicas, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187120	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Tot, what I would say, being in opposition is always against, so anything, but maybe sometimes it's not good. Having LNG or caring about the future of RH energy is certainly good. As much as that gas will be, that's the question, we still don't know, but the alternative has to be. So, all of these future, future energy orientations, I certainly welcome, and sun and gas, we don't know today what's going to happen to Russian gas, but we now have something less than it was, but we certainly have to make an alternative if there's something that should certainly ensure for the citizens that they have gas in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187121	Mr. Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187122	Thank you. I agree with you, however, but I am in some way obliged to explain what it means when it comes out, in the heat of speech, I may not have made that clear enough. So we have a renewable energy source, say the wind power plant, and because of the too big, too strong wind, that power plant's pre-intense wind at some point so it doesn't crash, it has to go off. And that's in the energy sector, that's the exclusion when it's practically in full production, and then there's a sudden exclusion of larger quantities or larger megawatts, which is what we call a fallout, a fallout from the system, and that's how that part of the capacity that comes from renewable energy sources turns out. I'll do my best to explain more in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187123	And finally, the last replica of Mr. Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187124	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Totgergeli, so I noticed in your presentation that too much of the emphasis on the role of gas as, you said, a guarantee to renewable energy sources. Now you've explained it. I would say that a bit of glorifying the role of gas as such because it is the purest fossil energy, but use it for heating, it is really one solution that we should reject because many countries prohibit it as such. In principle, gas should be used very soon only as raw materials for industry, and certainly not as energy, so to reduce it, and renewable energy sources as such, as a complex, so technology is already very capable of preserving energy and giving a good response to outbursts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187125	Thank you very much. Mr. Totgergeli's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187126	Thank you. I agree with you completely, even through your individual debate I was just talking about. What I stress is gas as an important, important reserve is precisely for the production of electricity, but here I agree with you that it is fossil fuel and the moment we find better than that we will move on to what is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187127	Well, in the end, the last individual debate will be from Mr. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187128	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today's item on the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. Today, during the entire debate, we have at least heard about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gas market and what is changing in it. We've heard a lot more debates about everything and everything, mostly about LNG. So I'll take the liberty of expanding that part of my debate and bringing out some of my vision of what's in the Republic of Croatia today in some way actual. It's perfectly understandable that the media are shriveling these days and that some news is burning some desert star in Rijeka or Obersnel in, masquerade in Johanna, and it's good that the people write and that the media talk about it. And I think it would be much more quality if in the same way and the same measure it was written that KBC was built in Rijeka, that the river had entered the sea and that the western coast and container terminal were built, that the construction of the most expensive meters, kilometers of road from Zagreb's coast to Škor, Škorinje in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. That right now, and we're talking about the LNG terminal, right now, this morning, I was at the construction site before I started here because in my area, in my city, there's an MRS building for exactly that LNG terminal and the pipeline trasphorus started digging out the canals to lay down future pipes. Why am I saying this? I remember when the Rijeka bypass was being built, in the same way was the event of the people we save Draški Potok, even I received some threatening letters because in the spatial plan I allowed the area of the town of Bakar to be built by this river bypass, a large road, most of it on bridges, tunnels, and finally when it was built, no one talks about it, all of us driving around Rijeka and Krk because it was something good. Also 2007-'08. Launched construction of the Pula-Carlovac Master's gas pipeline, here are colleagues from Istria remember it and I remember it well because I struggled hard to extract from that pipeline towards my industrial zone because the introduction of that gas has enabled the opening of the period since it was built to this day about 4,000 new jobs. Is nature devastated? It is. Is the average track? It is. But the pipeline was brought in and jobs were built. Is the Pelješki bridge being built at the moment, if there was no crown virus, maybe we wouldn't have that news that those from China came with cargo ships, the elements that would be placed on the pillars that are being built. So all the time we're going to do something positive and all the time nobody's talking about what's happening right now in Croatia and what position Croatia has in the European Parliament right now with this prime minister, with our government and with the European funds that are retreating here in the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of LNG, Director Doric announced in April 2018 that the LNG terminal will be built in 2020. And here we heard a statement that the Primorsko-Gorski County can't be deceived, and I'm saying it can be deceived and deceived. And you know who's cheating on her, and I'm going to read it now, and I'm getting out in a hurry, because the debate is going in that direction, Mr. Komadina's statement. So in 2010, he strongly advocated a floating terminal, when the government wanted to build land, so 2 years ago, the same mayor in his pre-election programme and in his campaign called the government expected the realization of LNG as a capital project, read, Google, look for what the mayor was saying at the time when he needed votes in the Primorje-Gorski County and what his ideas were about that energy. Dal changed the mayor's thinking, no, I know him and I know that he thinks it's good, but at that point he needed votes and citizens of Omis and the Primorje-Gorski County, he was very committed knowing that it was over, knowing that the projects were over, knowing that the funds were secured and knowing that they would be built by a floating terminal. And at this point, he's building himself. And everyone who drills into their chests to defend it, to advocate these citizens that they will not allow it, lie and deceive the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County. Why am I talking like this? Because I think we all need to start thinking, talking, talking differently. If we don't talk about how this country needs construction, if we don't say in a way that the European funds that we pay in the European budget are somehow being multiplied back here in the Republic, if we don't spread something that's positive then what colleague Bulj often says is how many people have gone from Croatia. But we're against everything. At this point, I'm in my city with my associates preparing a 10.5 megawatt solar power plant. Now at this point, so much is the total consumption of 220 business entities in our business zone. Are we going to destroy the bushes and rocks on a hill? We will. Why? Because we're gonna put a solar power plant on it. What's the effect of that solar power plant? 10.5 megawatts of electricity for future users and our industrial zone. Speaking of ecology there was a mentioned INA, is at this point a modernization of the Rijeka Refinery, yes, the other day I was down at the construction site doing a new Coking Complex, investing in this huge funds. At the moment, right now Minister Oleg Butkovic in Moscenicko Draga is signing a contract for new funds for the reconstruction of the coast, a waterfront and a Renaissance on the Croatian coast. Are we building this? Yeah. No, it's our main story who was burned in Imotski, please imagine. They burned me, I don't know who you are how many times, something that's tradition, what are customs. And let it be written, and let it be spoken of, and let each one state his opinion, both for and against, but why do we not write what is done, what is built, which is good. Is there a hospital in Pula being built? Yeah. Someone secured the funds for it, someone fought for it. At this point in time, this law, the amendments and additions to this law, on the basis of which so many bile debates were launched during today's day, is purely politics to pull some political points, so I'm fighting for something when I'm aware that it's a done deal, it's a done deal. LNG on Krk is a done deal. I'm telling you go upstairs to the Evil MRS is being built, 10 machines are currently on site. With the route of the pipeline towards Omislje, a pipe trench is dug and a berth on the coast is made. Now, if anyone suspects talking to sailors, seamen, speak to the captains, let them talk to people who sail on such ships, and let them say. And that was a basic motive for me to support when voting on this law and for which I suffered numerous criticisms, personal calls, attacks, and when I talked to those people who attacked most, it was seen that they didn't even know what it was. So I'm saying all of this is if we go against something, just to be opposite, to pull some political points for ourselves, for our party, to win some kind of power or to earn some kind of position, then it's not good, then it's a pity for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187129	Yeah, all that, Mr. Ivica Misic was the first to look for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187130	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, yes, everything you've done well you can't see it and they don't want to talk at all, it's important to write about burned in Imotsky what, those two people, it's very important. It doesn't matter when I talked the other day about kidnapping the land in Bosnia's posavina, it's very irrelevant. It doesn't matter that the same Croats are being expelled from Serbia, we're reading today, it's irrelevant. And all that matters and what's good in this country and what's done right, and that's the opposition and the people that don't matter. And what you were talking about about is the strategy and the very solar energy that you're doing, it's a irrelevant thing, but it's very important for the future of Croatians and energy in Croatia. So this LNG is very important in the survival of energy and alternative to everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187131	Thank you. Answer Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187132	My colleague Misic, 2013, without speaking '91. We could only dream of being in some kind of EU. Now, at this point, our prime minister is negotiating, so as a small country with a half-breeding 4 million residents living here, we're negotiating who will be the chairman of a committee in the European Commission, who will chair the European Commission. We have the EU chairmanship here today, and until 20, 30 years ago, we were in those colorful uniforms up by the window trenches and I don't know where in Croatia. The Pelješki bridge is being built, never in history in Croatia has infrastructure been built but in the last 30 years and at that time we even fought. The Split-Rijeka road connected Lika, bus pipelines, wind parks, wind power plants, the non-stop is built, and we are constantly criticising.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187133	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187134	Thank you very much. As well as reminding you of certain things, so did this highway pipeline from Fažana to Karlovac, so no one bothered for years that the gas being extracted throughout the North Adriatic goes across Italy and Slovenia to Croatia, so when the winter months were crowded we could not even get it, as well as in the interconnection between the Lower Miholjc and the master pipeline in Hungary. However, here in this assembly is a proposing budget I think for 2013 but on the other side of the assembly said that it must collect electricity 25% and gas 30% because economic growth carriers in Croatia will be INA and HEP and there will be economic momentum of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, there is no investment, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been paying 3 billion kuna annually for more expensive gas and electricity. It was not a market price but agreed that it would be the way it is. Then you don't take the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187135	Thank you. Answer Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187136	And you and I were together with the Parliament where at least 50 times a day was spoken and written in all the media monetizing the highways, monetizing the highways, motenizing the highways we'll fail if the highways don't monetize, just from the side you showed. Are the highways monetized? No, they're not. The authorities have changed, new people have come with strength, capabilities, abilities, credits have been reprogrammed, Croatian highways have not been monetized, and new kilometers of these same roads are being built. What are we talking about? But no one mentions it. And worst of all, it's the most critical of those who were at that moment advocating the monetization of the highway, and you were there with me and listening to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187137	Mr. Lucic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187138	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Klaric listens to your presentations, but first of all, this law that we are making today and all these changes, and they are exclusively related to the development of the economy, is the impression that there is an anti-enterprise climate in Croatia. But why the anti-enterprise climate? Well, because today it is simply HDZ with its coalition partners in power and which is precisely all these funds that we receive from the EU in the best possible way to invest in the Republic of Croatia in all capital facilities that are visible at every turn. And then what is left for these people both in Bakr and Požega-Slavonska and inpleternica and in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia? It's said that nothing is right, that it's not good, and look instead of collecting heads together, to provide even greater resources, we're doing an anti-enterprise climate. It's a shame for every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187139	Thank you. Answer Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187140	My friend Lucic, here's what you mentioned about the Pleternica and your zone, I really love your end of Slavonia, and I like it here my late father was born in the Pleternica so I really follow what's going on there. Here's an example of a banalan, I'm monitoring and construction is finally starting to build in your business zone at the Pleternica building of a production-business facility. I'm sure there are people in your neighborhood who find any excuse to blacken something like that. It's a chemical industry or something, or something like that, is that something bad? And all of us together if we don't fight it and those because populism has obviously taken too much of a swing and then in some way it's holding back all of us who by all our powers, really all our strengths and our hearts, we're trying. Here I am looking at my colleagues from IDS, looking at the captains who are here with us, who are all trying to build something in their area, run these business zones, trying to figure out something that they're kind of stuck in all their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187142	Thank you. You must be informed of the types of floating terminal when you are already calling Mayor Zlatko Komadin, who said in 2010 that there is a possibility of construction and floating terminal, which is the one that is not stored at sea, which you are now bringing to Omisalj, but the gas is being transported to modules on land, without spreading the industrial zone. You remember Koksara and Ned Andric, you will remember the same floating terminal, but you will now be in the role of Ned Andric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187143	Excuse me, Mr. Klaric, you may answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187144	Yeah, I'm in a hurry not to let my seconds run out. I appreciate you as a politician, you have your model and you have a way to fight for your position, to be the head of the Omisalj municipality, to be here in the assembly, that each of us has some kind of model of the way he's going to fight for his position. It's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's You under cover of fighting for Omisalj, a healthy environment you try to get as many political points as possible. In the same way as your mayor of Komadin. Apropo was the minister for six months, which he did for the Primorje-Gorski County. Let us compare it with Minister Oleg Butkovic, who is the same from the Primorje-Gorski County, as they did. This one beats up the pulsism of your type and did nothing, and this one does not deal with pulsism but builds all over Croatia from Pelješko bridge to our Primorje-Gorski County. Here's an example of the second Ucka tunnel tube that prepares the bypasses of Vindol, which you're talking about. Your style is like that I appreciate it, but don't insult and call other people who have no opinion like you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187145	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I am curiously curiously, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187146	Well, my colleague Klaric hurt Article 238. The Rules of Procedure also insulted me that I have my own style clearly coming here to the Assembly. My colleague Klaric said that I have my own style of defending the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia honestly, and among other things, the inhabitants of the Omisalj municipality, you forgot about it. Also, don't tell the truth, people know what you were saying when you said bring me LNG's terminal to Bakar I'll be happy, and then the second day in the New List you better say no, no, I didn't say that we don't need LNG's terminal Don't tell the truth. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187147	Thank you very much. Ma'am, ma'am, no, we're not going to continue this, we're not going to continue this controversy. Mrs. Ahmetovic, you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure if someone tells you you have your style, if it's not sexist, if it's sexist, then it's other rules. Uh, I'll just visit you on the words of the great thinkers who say "man that's style," you understand every man has his own style. If you tell me that I have my style, I won't be offended at all, so please don't take offense either if someone tells you you have your style, and since we know that Mr. Beljak has his style and Mr. Klaric, I won't give you any harm to the Rules of Procedure, and you will now report to this Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, please contact your complaints. Thank you very much. And if you're looking for a break, if you're looking for a break on this agenda point, if you're looking for a break on this agenda point, then yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187148	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss a little more at the club about the energy situation, the difficult, critical situation in which Croatia has found itself. On the other hand, we also need to discuss what an insult means. You know when someone tells someone they have a way of getting into a council, and it's about a woman, then it's pure sexism for me. So that colleague Ahmetovic is right to be offended and hurt because I would be in her place because it is known in which way colleagues from the Croatian right think about women, what they want women and what they think, it is very well known what they think when they say that a woman has a way of entering the policy of becoming head of the municipality or entering the Croatian Parliament. I understood that sexism. Thank you very much, please take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187149	I'm giving you 10 minutes off. It's 12:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.38 HOURS]] 'Cause it's over? It is. It's been 10 minutes, I expect Mr. Tomislav Klaric will show up because we have two more replicas. The first line has Mr. Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187151	Thank you, Vice President. The replica is Mr. Klaric, I hope he gets here. I agree with him when he talked about today's debate being at least said about the very proposal for a law that is on the agenda today, which is the law on the gas market. But what about when the biggest opposition SDP club, both during the first reading and during the second reading, has no objections to the law, there is no proposal on the law, but does not want to support the law, and the main debate is that it is bad that HDZ has allowed citizens not to pay the price they needed in 2018, 2019, 2020 and until 3 months 2021. So, the bad news is that HDZ has allowed citizens to pay less gas prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187152	Mr. Klaric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187153	Everything you said I was signing, it's true, and I'm coming back again, what I said, which is why they called me, that in some way I insulted our colleague, it's just not true, I made my point, and I kind of appreciate her activity in that plan as such. Our goals and models are different. Someone's doing it just like you said they're criticizing, calling, and it's populism, and someone's building and working, and it's much more positive for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187154	And finally, Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187155	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, colleague Klaric, you asked a question in your debate, he says, why am I saying it this way? I quote, so even though you know that the LNG terminal isn't worth it, even though you know that it's not environmentally acceptable for the Kvarner Bay, you're talking about it this way because you have to. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187156	Mr. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187157	My colleague Lenart, I speak this way for a reason and in my opinion in this way we should all speak for all MPs because I love my Primorje-Gorskin end too much, because I was born there, my whole life there and everything I've done in my political career was for the good of that end. And those results in my city that the citizens gave me the honor of running it, you see. I invite you to come to me and I'll show you all this. And all I'm doing is why you rarely hear me here with the debates, I'm not discussing as your president how many more of them needed to be killed in '45, I'm discussing here in a way that I'm talking about projects, I'm looking for an amendment to the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure because that law is of benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that's why I'm emotionally speaking this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187158	Thank you very much. Now, let's see this violation of Mr. Lenart's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187159	Dear Vice President, Art. 238. My colleague Klaric, I responded to your line, not the president of the HSS, and you're telling the truth because the president of the HSS didn't say who he was supposed to or shouldn't have killed in the '45s. But you know very well that all those who were in the system by the '90s, 90,000 of them came to you with the HDZ along with the services, with the marriage and with everyone, and now you're talking to someone about '45. And you were also a pioneer And a young man, [[/Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, thank you, thank you, good.]] You were wearing a five-pointer on your forehead. [[/Intruder: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187160	All right, let the record show that Mr. Lenart said that, not Mr. Whiteman. All right? Thank you very much. Let's move on, and now, Mr. Klaric, let's see your injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187161	In 238, Vice President, you have allowed a few colleagues here not to properly submit to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not one of them was obvious about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but was presenting a replica or its position. And I think it's on your side, and according to the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I've caused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that they deserve a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187162	Thank you very much, as you know I am and I am one of the two vice presidents of HS, one I think even if he were the president of the formerly, who gave himself a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but in this case he doesn't deserve it for the simple reason that you didn't specify the article, and since you didn't mention the article to you, you didn't, you didn't get it, you could give it to yourself to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I won't, here it is, okay? Well, now, we can finally come to the end of this debate and Mr. Secretary of State Ivo Milatić will speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the debate on this final bill, and in the final few sentences, I would also refer to what is said here. So to say that, yes, that gas production has fallen and that's something new, it's clear to everyone on the day why gas production fell, because practically by 2015 since the last serious wells of the 1990s that went into operation by 2015. So I'm surprised that even by the SDP club, let's say these surprises come, and in fact, that government is also responsible for that story being initiated, and these governments now that they've just moved on to the subject. It is known that in 2016 several contracts were signed, it is known that the same 6 contracts were signed in 2019, so now they are seriously working there. Here I can announce here from this pay phone that in one 15 days, the government will approve new four contracts, two INAs, one Vermiliam, one CRODUX for new research, meaning objectively we can expect in a very short time to determine certain new quantities and stop actually falling domestic production, which I hope is here both the opposition and the authorities and each of us normal citizens of this country in the interest. To talk about gas as something that will suddenly disappear, it's an absolute topic that doesn't stand. So in 2050, if God gives one of us to leave, and preferably we all experience that time, surely the gas will still be. Gas is like one transition fuel that will be used for a long time, and even when gas is no longer used as fuel, it may be used to produce hydrogen and CO2 as a by-product. It is certainly the gas to which we should pay attention and the fact that this law allows only what the directives and normal EU rules are intended, and that is that third countries in the event of an interconnection that unfortunately we do not have, and I hope that here there will be talks about connecting with Italy, you know well that the IAP gas pipeline is something that is our strategic interest. The good news is that the EU has announced the abolition of C funds, but it has given up on this, when we talk about gas infrastructure that we will be able to report to the last tender that will be to report this project and that this project would have been done because it is clear in the interests of the Republic of Croatia that the complete gas system is being placed in an enhanced function, secondly, with LNG, it would have opened the third supply direction, not only the gas from Azerbaijan, you need to know that huge quantities have been found around Cyprus and that the gas in the Mediterranean area will certainly be. Clearly, the theme about LNG is the eternal theme here as soon as the gas is pulled out, the theme of the fact that we have invested European and Croatian funds that are clearly a grant and the funds of HEP and Plinarro which will have to return from business is, in my opinion, a topic that we should not talk about in this way as if we had wasted something in vain. If you all know that 2.5 billion cubics Croatia spends annually and let's say that it's some price of two kunas per cubic bit, it's five billion kunas of some kind of traffic. And now imagine, we depend today on one supply direction, imagine a serious disturbance in the EU, Ukraine as far as I know where and what a market disturbance is. This means that, say, the price of energy jumps suddenly 20 percent and more, we could call it a market disturbance serious. This means automatically Croatian citizens and economies if they come into such a situation, they must, for example, allocate a billion, a billion and a half kuna for that gas at the level of the year. You'll say well, it's not the cost of the state, it's the cost of citizens, of the economy, of this, but it's the cost of the state at the end. Because these here are full of citizens' mouths today, and then we as a state should take care of citizens, and citizens are citizens and entrepreneurs and those who are entrepreneurs. So this is a FID clutch, the LNG terminal is a FID clutch to keep you from getting electrocuted, and here to not be killed by the market and to not destroy your economy and home budgets, just look at the LNG terminal from that point of view, plus you have to count on it to be an additional 2.5 billion cc's of storage capacity. You must know that we only have an underground storage area around us if we haven't yet built the Roughfield, but we plan to do in the coming years which would be a storage facility that would be for ironing deficits, and LNG is an additional storage capacity in Croatia. So that's what I'd ask you to look at it that way. And to say that Croatia doesn't have a clear policy to do all this in one way or another it's really deplaced and I really ask you to understand that this law is a detailed regulation of everything, it's predicting future events and clearly that we haven't crossed the commission like Totgergeli already said here but we've fought and it's good that we've made, it's a conscious decision of the Croatian Government for Croatian citizens and the economy. The burden of this difference was again submitted by the Croatian State, and ultimately indirectly through its public company that made it. And that's the whole story, and that's the whole truth, and for the sake of truth, you should say it. Yes, fear the price of gas in the future that will be so-called. to increase, first we will see what will happen when it does, but we should also point out that during the term of office of this government and this administration the average salary it minimumly prescribed, and thus these others have increased by 27%, meaning that both some conditions and all what has been raised here in the parliamentary debate have increased so that a potential increase in gas price will always be less in the percentage part of the citizens' standards than it is now. So this break we've now taken in a way that we've stabilized the price she's certainly not done bad for the citizens and for the economy but for the good. And that's what I think is important. As far as the HNS proposal is concerned, about the carbon monoxide meter, we, between the two readings, have considered this issue and concluded the following. As you've seen in the bill, we haven't incorporated it into the law for the reasons we think next. At first, we think it's a good thing and it should be introduced in one way. When we thought about it to build into the law, we concluded that it was then an additional burden to a distributor he can't avoid because you legally force him to do it and he must pay it and then clearly the potential is they, the potential danger of her pressing to raise prices. And given that there is energy efficiency and mandatory energy efficiency schemes by which gas distributors are also bound by the Regulation on the monitoring and measurement system and verification of energy savings which is now on, on this one in the public debate and very soon a public debate will be concluded, we have decided this, this device offers as an alternative to distributors that they can install it and that it would be recognised to them as being the same according to certain coefficients as savings. Clearly he is now in a completely different situation, in fact the distributor is then motivated to do so. We think it's a better concept, and we're confident that the distributors will use it. Speaking of investments, as Mr. Maras used to say, I've already mentioned, it's a lot to be invested in, the effort to keep the hydrocarbons under investigation. Here I can also say here by the HSS Club any number of times the initiatives in this esteemed home about the change of the hydrocarbon fee that is divided into local self-government, here I can say that what we promised, we communicated to you, the government is thinking either at this session or at the next one will adopt that local self-government, municipalities and cities of non-counties, that their share will be 10% higher than it was before. Counting that every year when these new wells are put into a function where much more generous state contracts are going to raise these funds this is good news for local self-government, clearly and now these contracts, let's say what are going on on this government is some in this year million-and-a-half kuna for those municipalities where the wells are going to work. So these activities still help local self-government. As for Mrs. Honorable Assembly MP Ahmetovic and the subject she spoke freely and later in individual speech, that we lead, that we lead Hungarian energy policy. I really don't understand where we came from to the conclusion that we're leading it. We are conducting exclusively Croatian energy policy and we are solely counting on it. Speaking of which, our gas is cheaper, so we're buying more expensive stuff, like, it's a groundless topic. Gas is every gas and ours and import is always the same price, because gas stock, price is formed and it is like such a price. So this topic that will last our gas will be sold to us because our gas will be cheaper, our gas is important because, in terms of energy security, it's good to have your gas, so God forbid there's some kind of disturbance that you have your own gas in your country. And as for the price, the price is always the same. The fact that tariffs are also reduced is also true, and the fact that operating LNG on these capacities is already physical and will not be needed, on what is agreed is physical and will not need to increase the price, that is accurate information. I'd like to talk about it. And it is accurate information that the state interests of the citizens that we all call here are more important than the interests and individual local communities. I can understand local leaders because I was also in the 3 mandate of the local leader, that it is a clear local story always to local leaders and citizens most important, but it is also what is, which is a matter of state interest too important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for all of us. And that would be about that, so this law has resolved the detailed issue of storage, storage and will remove any possible problems in operation. So we've regulated how and in what way in the event that the interconnections happen to third countries, and we primarily think tomorrow, in the future of BiH, if it succeeds in moving with IAP towards Zagvozd and then from Zagvozd at least in this direction this southern part of BiH, and that's that. So in that name, I thank you for the debate, and here I hope this law is passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187164	First line, Mr. Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187165	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I see from your exposure that you are mostly experiencing gas as energy only, and it would be good since the secretary of state would require a more full vision of gas as such. When you say gas will disappear, it should disappear as energy especially for heat, by 2050, and in fact much earlier. Gas, natural gas, we need to understand as an extraordinary raw material for producing everything and everything, no organic industry, no gas-free chemical and no petroleum products. So plastic materials, and I don't mean single plastics, but plastics that we're going to use from now on, we're going to need gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187166	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187167	Well, dear Parliamentarian Dobrović, there I absolutely agree with you, yes, perhaps I'm just focused on energy you've gained an impression and perhaps I've expressed myself so much that I'm only talking about energy, and I absolutely agree that it is like raw materials 5 times and I don't say, there are many times more opportunities and in this energy sense, clearly that what transit fuel is going to be used as objectively as it will be, and I think, my opinion and my opinion in the ministry that it will still take some time, but it's clear that this large amount of renewable energy that we've also foreseen in the strategy by both national climate and energy plan, will very much contribute that the gas in terms of energy, we'll use less, and we can agree there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187168	Second replica, Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187169	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we all want Croatia to be energy independent, that we do not have to depend on the imports of gas or electricity, and of course the two preconditions for this are first try to raise domestic production, which we believe was insufficiently invested in the exploration and exploitation of existing fields in Croatia, because INA is no longer ours, and then Hungarians will not invest in Croatia, and secondly, when we are already doing stockpiling capacity to be sure what we welcome, we must count on it to be that the cost of the state but those taxpayers have paid into the state budget and that it is not due tomorrow because it is non-paymentable, again charged to taxpayers or citizens through the price of heat energy or economy through the price of gas, so we have discussed and, of course, we have the right to ask a question. And please answer me, you said you'd repeat the phase of the refinery's gasification in the Bosnian ship, it's not working now, and the air is still polluted in Slavonski Brod, it's in red, so here's the citizens... They're asking when that gasification will take place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187170	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187171	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. First of all, INA is not Hungarian, she's both ours and MOL's when we talk about it. ... INA invests, let's not say that, 550 million euros...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] 550 million investments in Rijeka, it's not something that's not worth mentioning, and please, we don't allow it from the ministry and the government that I don't think it matters. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] As for the gasification of the Bosnian ship, as far as I have information... It's a private project, it's not a classic interconnection, it's actually a consumer pipeline that's going to be used for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have information that this is going well and very soon the realization of this project is expected, so that's all that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187172	The third replica, Mrs. Pryce. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187173	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Secretary of State, therefore, should not be surprised that when this topic is too, it is a debate about the LNG terminal and should not be surprised to reconsider why it is floating and not land. What I'm interested in is, you said certain things here, and that's why my replica, how many cubes there are already scheduled or announced to rent on a floating terminal, and who's already somehow reported to need a floating terminal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187174	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187175	Thanks for asking. As it is said in the debate, about half a billion cubic cubic meters have now been leased, it is clear that when the terminal is built, that the interest in all of this will be greater. It's logical to assume that when we went into the project, why it wasn't important for others to support the project. Well, it's not in anyone's interest for you to make an extra offer and be his competition. It's not clear to me that in the debate it can't be understood, it's ordinary, I've graduated from the middle economics and college economics. No price, the price goes down if the offer's bigger and we had an offer 1 and now we have an offer 2. So why is only half a billion now? So if that was enough for the first hand, it was the ones who were interested. When it's built, I'm convinced that interest will be greater and then math will start because it's reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187176	The third line has Mr. Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187177	Secretary of State, I wonder if you're the Secretary of State for Propaganda or Energy? That's where you mentioned that there would be licenses for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons for me, four companies. None of these companies are Croatian. Crodux's gas section is Slovenian, from Petrol, INA is Hungarian. This Vermillion, it's a Canadian firm. There are no Croatian companies, and now you assure us not the representatives, but you assure the citizens who listen to you, that they have no reason to panic. They have, of course, reason to panic and worry, none of these companies are ours, all the gas that is exploited on Croatian territory will remain in Croatia, going out. We're not independent or we'll be independent. You sold out Croatia, sold out its resources for peanuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187178	Thank you for asking, I'm so glad that you asked. [[Intruder Radin: You can answer, please.]] So all the companies I mentioned were Croatian companies. Croatian companies are and there is no debate at all. All these companies will achieve this business here and if they find any raw material, the Croatian state will benefit 50 times as much as it has so far on these so-called so-called companies. Royality tax of 10%. So, we're doing what we do now. the product share agreement, meaning the division of production. All these findings that will definitely be from 2016 and including these new ones, when they come into the situation, then you will see how much Croatian budget and Croatian citizens will benefit from it and don't say that now, that we have sold it for peanuts, we haven't sold anything for peanuts, these are contracts that have never been in the Republic of Croatia, 100 times more generous for the state than it was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187179	Thank you very much. Before we move forward with, with replicas, the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of the national minorities, Mr. Milorad Pupovac and the chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Ana-Marija Petin received the delegation of the Committee on Petitions of the Parliament's House of Representatives of the Czech Republic, which is sitting here with us now, and we will welcome them with applause. ... Let's move on with the replicas, Mr. Cure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187180	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I must say that I accept your explanation to the team more which will then lead to the safe possibility of installing carbon monoxide detectors in all our households with gas-spenders or water heaters. All I'd like is to put it as a commitment if they had to, and I can't. And I think that's the right way, that it will motivate and reach the ultimate goal, that our citizens, households that heat on gas and heat sanitary water on gas, get these detectors, and thus increase their safety. And it's all at the expense of the distributor, not its own. More than once said, it is a good thing that the debate has taken place and I am glad that you have accepted this initiative and I am therefore withdrawing my two amendments for it and I expect it to be resolved in a way that will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187181	The answer, I'm sorry, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187182	Thank you. As I said will be in the Regulation, it is not possible to write the seas in the Regulation, but be assured, in the end you will have the opportunity to read the Regulation and to give someone to analyse it, it will be so stimulating for distributors that you do not have to worry, they will certainly use it, from the Regulations they will in principle use those measures that are more stimulating for them, or by the amount of money invested, achieve greater savings for themselves, which is ultimately good general for everyone that the total price of energy does not, no, do not exert great pressure on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187183	Yes, because for those two words, we may and must have had great trouble in this House, so we recommend ourselves in advance. And Mr. Zeljko Lenart has his last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187184	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here I am unfortunately not heard from our Government, nor from you at any time to advocate reducing dependence on import energies and this gas, since we in the Republic of Croatia have a very large biomass that is a renewable source, it is sold annually about 2.5 million cc's of hulls only, and unfortunately the availability to citizens to this biomass has been reduced, the price has been raised, and this biomass is exported, as the colleague said earlier, to peanuts. The Austrians think differently and they replace a lot of import energy with what they have, and they have biomass, and here we have a tree one of the great possibilities of replacing these gas problems that we have. I think that's the way to think and do less importing gas, and we'll have less problems then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187185	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187186	Dear Parliamentarian, it is absolutely not true that you said that the government is not declaring a reduction in energy imports. Well, we had a discussion in this esteemed home about the energy strategy. At the end of the year, the government adopted the National Climate Energy Plan and I would ask you nicely if you had any time to study these documents. 1000 megawatts of solar, 1000 megawatts of wind is envisaged by this strategy as a minimum that we will achieve by 2030, do you know how many 1000 megawatts and one and the other + biomass + will very soon come the competition by the ministry and CROTE for the biomass you speak of, we absolutely support. Biomass, biogas, competitions, premium models will go, and the only criteria will be that this part of renewable, renewable source energy will be linked to other benefits for the Republic of Croatia through the production of the nitrate directive with... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Yeah, the gas imports would've put up with it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187187	No, no, no, time, time, time's up, thank you very much, and... There's no such conversation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187188	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gas market, second reading, P.Z.E. 824. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 10 abstentions and 18 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187189	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 848. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. So, when the agenda was established, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed in an urgent process that unites first and second readings, and amendments can therefore be submitted by the end of this debate today. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does Mr Ivo Milatić, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy want to give an opening statement? Here you are, and present the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187190	Thank you. Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, you have before you the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. This law clarifies the way in which the ministry will determine compensation for unfulfilled energy savings obligations to energy-saving bonds. Thus, this law proposes to reduce compensation for non-fulfilment of 50% of the cost of investment in savings per fixed kilowatt hour, which the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund had based on investments in energy saving measures in the alternative savings system. The law therefore describes the calculation of the fee to be paid by the obligor for unfulfilled savings, for that part of the unfulfilled liability that the bond party cannot transfer in the following year. The current Energy Efficiency Act prescribes the obligation to save energy to energy suppliers that supply energy to final customers or to distribution cells that sell energy to final customers. The obligation to save energy from suppliers in the current year is based on the amounts of energy supplied by energy suppliers to final customers or to distribution cells that sell energy to final customers in the previous year. In 2019, the parties to the Energy Efficiency Obligations System Bonds were all suppliers whose delivery was either independent or within the related companies in 2017 greater than 300 gigawatts of hours. These savings bonds are due for the first time in 2020 to provide evidence of the savings achieved from 2014 to the year in which the commitment was made. The Ministry is obliged to verify the savings achieved and, on the basis of them, to adopt solutions on the unsecured part of the liabilities of the previous year, on the basis of the fund's investment costs in alternative measures in the calendar year preceding the year in which the commitment was determined, and which the bond party, on behalf of the unrealised savings, is obliged to pay the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund one-timely. On the basis of the data provided on the total amount of energy delivered in 2017, and energy data that is eligible for the reduction of commitments, it has been established that the mandatory savings system for 2019 relates to 25 bond parties for which the Ministry of Environment and Energy has issued solutions, which determines the obligation to save energy. It was done, so at the end of last year. The Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund has publicly announced investment costs in alternative measures per saved kilowatt hour of energy for 2017, amounting to 2 kuna and 19 lipa per kilowatt hour, which is the largest part in, to invest in energy efficiency in construction that measures have the longest life span of 25 years, but are also the most financially intense. In fact, the obligation to rebuild the housing fund of the building is addressed as the obligation of the state and regional, or local self-government, so these measures are primarily found in the alternative measures system. When it comes to the mandatory savings system of the bond parties, a series of savings can be realised with smaller specific costs per kilowatt hour and the required savings can be achieved. Thus, the value of the individual savings which would, in the sense of the penalty, be adequately estimated at half the amount that the fund invests per kilowatt hour of savings. These are recognised austerity measures, such as replacing electronic devices with less consumption than the prescribed standard, fuel adjustment and a series of other measures adopted at EU level and implemented in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, further respecting the fact that part of the system's obligation to save is also related to regulated activities, it is justified to consider a proportionate reduction in the amount determined by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and in order to avoid disturbances in the energy market and impact on energy prices by end-users. It is therefore necessary to balance the system in which end-users must benefit from the energy efficiency system, but not in such a way as to cause a linear increase in energy prices and to propose half of the amount for that part of the unsatisfactory savings subject to pensionisation. It is also estimated that one month for the review of the bond breaks report, the issue of a solution to the savings achieved in the first reporting situation is too short by respecting administrative capacities and the volume of transactions related to the verification of the savings submitted, and therefore the extension of the period until 31 May has been proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187191	Thank you, too. Mr. Slaven Dobrović asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187192	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, from all we've heard from you and the materials that you've delivered, it's clear that you and only the Ministry are actually confused about energy efficiency and energy efficiency is not being seen in the way that it should, that this is one of the directions to transform energy, therefore, into a sustainable society. So, which is certainly part of the EU's green plan, but it's one big pain, so it's for the ministry, then for the government, because you don't know what to do with it because it's actually pushing you to go against your energy companies that we know, that they're very much sponsoring political work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187193	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187194	My home education doesn't require me to respond in a similar style, but I'll try to say yes. So we're neither confused nor without a goal or an idea. So in 2014, this law was passed and you had the opportunity to do the same thing under that law, you did nothing. And that's what I think the Croatian public is clear. So this government has introduced mandatory schemes, this government has managed to obtain data neatly, and what savings are needed for mandatory scheme holders, and we now propose that this entire system be properly implemented so that suppliers do not suffer. Why don't they get hurt so they won't be forced to raise the price, but the measures are introduced and it's on real ground. When the law was written in 2014 it wasn't this... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187195	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187196	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State isn't far away because it's far away but because you leave late and then you're late. So, come on, we have at this point 25 companies that are bonds. Right? And that's what we've got at this point. We have a provision of the article, so Article 10 of the article that you're changing that clearly says that savings can be done in 3 ways. One is that you're really changing technology, what you said. The second is by buying determined energy savings, so CO2 and third is by payment in line. Now you're regulated here by the payment in accordance because you're concluding that what they're forced to do is the amount, if I'm not wrong, and I'm not wrong, I'm going to read 754,880,000, 754 million would be paid. What's the situation at this point, what these 25 taxpayers are doing, is they really taking care of energy effective or waiting for mercy to reduce the amount? [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187197	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187198	Thank you. They spend a lot of their bonds and they won't have any problems and they won't be in a position to pay you. We are most concerned here about taxpayers who are engaged in the supply of thermal energy because they simply have regulated activity and, specifically, the City Gasman of Zagreb if this law does not change would have a penal of 56 million kuna. We can't let the one who is the greatest individual of this energy supplier get into this situation because then it implies an increase in household costs, and this really has no reason to do so right now. By this measure, we, for example, bring them into some real contexts where they can carry it through their savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187199	Mr. Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, there's one question from your materials that you've delivered, as well as from the opening presentation itself. What will be the consequences of the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Energy Efficiency Act? It is obvious that this law is passed because of the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of the supplier distributor. the obligation of the energy efficiency system and, as a consequence of their inaction, the amount and compensation of 50% are now reduced, and these are the funds that were intended directly for the financing of so-called funding. alternative measures implemented through the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund, which are projects directly related to our citizens, municipalities, cities, direct investment in energy efficiency. By reducing these revenues, you question the functioning of both the fund itself and the realisation of these projects. So please explain from what sources will you compensate for these funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187201	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187202	Thanks for asking. You're actually talking about incomes that don't exist, talking about assets that don't exist. So these are potentially new revenues. It's never good to project new incomes into funds that are unrealistic in terms of those who have to pay these incomes and we'd say in a folk dictionary, for a kilo of meat to kill a calf. So, we mustn't put ourselves in a position to be able to fill the fund with resources to benefit from what you're saying, which is absolutely legitimate on your part to ask us to put in a situation where the entire sector, the sector under that burden, this thing that we would say groans, is that it all goes to the price of the energy of those same citizens. So we have to take care of that balance as a state. Keep energy prices in real terms, and alternative measures will be implemented and there will be enough resources after this law for what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187203	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187204	Thank you very much. Secretary, your only meaning in this case energy efficiency is the only project that is obviously based solely on Styrofoam and external facades. Already when you called Slaven Dobrovic that he had not done anything for several months, and Vrdoljak has done everything, we know that the Fund for Protection, for this Fund for Efficiency, spent energy efficiency instead of 50 million kuna, half a billion i.e. 600 million kuna for Styrofoam and facades. For you, it's all just Styrofoam and facades. It is not an example for you to have an alternative that in public transport we have more electric buses, that we have more efficiency, that we co-finance this than you spent 12 times as much on the Energy Efficiency Fund during the Vrdoljaks. Does that ring a bell? Is that fact familiar to you? You don't know that fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187205	But six, but seven seconds you went over, and that's familiar, that's for sure. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187206	I will, first of all I may owe an apology to Mr. Dobrovic I said he did nothing on the subject of this law without doing anything as minister free God that I think so. I claim that every minister in this country, ever since this country exists, has done something good and that there is no minister who has done no good. And as for this, we, energy efficiency is 150 pages of regulations, so it's not just Styrofoam and facades. So there's a sufficient number of measures where everyone can find and engage in energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187207	Would the representatives of the board like to give, take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, who will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club and let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, I especially welcome you. It is about the Proposal for a Law on Energy Efficiency and what we can never welcome the intention to raise this energy efficiency to a higher level than in the area of economics, business functioning, production processes, energy consumption technologies, and household energy consumption levels, and in this sense, there is something in each proposal of the law that is good, and in this too, it is necessary to see on the other hand how to improve this, increase and improve this one law and look at the other side of the entire energy policy. So on behalf of the party, let's change Croatia and the Energy Committee, I'll say a few words about it. So, on the one hand, it's being run, it's fostering energy savings efforts in the distribution system of these 25 distributors, the supplier, as you say and press them so that the systems, that are primarily the economy and households, become more energy efficient. How's that? So through creation means, building up objects, putting more efficient heat-saving facades, energy, that not so much electricity is spent, on the other hand, solving some parts of the production facilities in the energy-consuming sector to the consumption of hot water in the apartment. So here, as far as I've seen and studied, they're offered so-called. ESCO monitors available for monitoring and consumption. On the other hand, this can certainly be one convenient circumstance for all who are in the system, who are consumers of any business, any household, to be able to profit and learn from it. There's also a system of education that always comes in handy. But we have other problems. On the one hand, we have a system of energy that is such that it is set as inefficient and on the other hand requires energy efficiency from consumers. Let's see how the arguments stand when I say that the Ministry of Energy and Energy Policy is ineffective. So here it wants to be retired to say not to punish the waste in electricity consumption, which is even in principle, in the long run and acceptable as one policy for the future, however, we need to see on the other hand why energy policy holders in Croatia behave ineffectively. Well, here, for example. in the wind power plant, this is a school example of how much money has gone to citizens, on the back of citizens, and how many years we will be as consumers of citizens and, of course, businesses, in billions of kunas we will pay a few billion kunas more than we should, why, because privileged groups that have been well informed where the wind best blows, where we need to make wind power plants, where HEP has never made a wind power plant anywhere and now that they've all done, means when that job is already done because in that segment we have in relation to the meaning of the production of Croatia, we have above the European average, means the production of that kind of energy, and now the HEP that can only lose, here, so, it will show the next period. So HEP hasn't been in alternative and renewable so-called over the past few years. Energy sources invested nothing. Now she's running a Corlat wind power plant, they're actually buying her out, she's buying her out from a private investor who must have given up because he saw that job more, we can only talk about it now and that's clear. And it starts with the construction of some solar solar solar solar plants, and all last year means the one that should have started the investment process in Croatia, thus hiring, increasing GDP etc., etc., but has not done so in certain groups that have then reached them an acceptable excellent contract on the price of kilowatts of such wind currents, etc., but to the detriment of citizens. So we see energy inefficiencies, this is a mild word that I said on the political side that leads, the ministry that runs this resort, right? It was also about guessing, it's such roof capitalism where individual groups connect with political behaviourists, and it's poison to every nation and every country and ultimately costs more energy, we pay citizens. I'm asking you again, you've come here to talk about efficiency, I'm asking you again, why 13 months. He doesn't work for Dubrovnik in Platt? There's no official information, there's three workers killed in the haiarium, in the ignition that happened, why doesn't that power plant just work? At 13 months. According to its production capacity, HEP lost over a billion kunas because HE Dubrovnik is not working. So be careful, please, we don't have here as assembly representatives elected by citizens, we can't find an explanation, we can't find out the reasons, we don't have any information why he doesn't do HE Dubrovnik in Plat, near Dubrovnik, a billion kunas are lost and no one's saying anything, please. It's such a mess that it can't be fixed. Even "Nacional" weekly announced a few days ago that there was a lot of things down there, and about procurement, and about this, what, etc., but the citizens are interested in why HEP lost a billion, over a billion kuna, because that power plant is standing and what's just happening, when it's going to start working. But you can see why I'm saying this on behalf of the party Let's change Croatia, so because by a billion kuna, the total income for 2019 of the system called HEP will be reduced by a billion kunas less. A year ago, the Law was already passed to reduce the network to HEP, and he made about 300 million kuna on the basis of the network. HeP is also set to buy or purchase a stake in LNG, and it will come several hundred million kunas and so on, and so on. So, what was I gonna say? I can't get the impression that hep willfully doesn't wear out again, it's exhausting, it's obvious. Why? In order for Croatia's well-known privatisation form to be a suitable catch or takeover victim, because HEP has already been there twice, it has been tried, so the privatisation of individual stakeholders, and it is clearly now being prepared again. So I'm re-connecting to this whole Energy Efficiency Act, you see, if there's too much ineffectiveness in energy policy-making, so how are you going to achieve what is achieved, I said there are things that I welcome, then these are, then the savings will be marginal, the savings will be marginal. So we have to start with the head, there's the problem, there's the problem. Given all that has been done so far and how energy policy is being conducted, Croatia and we citizens have and we will have far greater consequences than the coronary virus in Croatia will have negative consequences, because it is quite clear. Therefore, the energy policy in Croatia must be completely changed, but there is a cure here, there is a cure to protect against the consequences of poor energy policy. Respected citizens are the only cure, but very effective, elections, in the next election simply to come out massively to stop and protect ourselves from this kind of virus, which has been present for years and years, this one will pass, but this one lasts long and only in elections can we eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187209	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Miro Totgergeli to state the position of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187210	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, so it goes according to an urgent procedure. In this Law today, a single article, which has 19 items, is literally amended and one item is added to this. We discussed this Law in detail in the tenth month of our first reading, and in the 12th month in the second reading of 2018, and at the end of 2018 we brought it with 79 ZA and 13 COUNTRY. Therefore, it is changed, literally only three paragraphs are changed in the proposed Law, and the Law, i.e. in the existing Law, refers to the obligation to save the energy of suppliers in the current year based on the quantities of energy supplied by suppliers to final customers two years earlier. So, we passed the Law in 2018, applied for the first time in 2019, and the savings that suppliers were supposed to achieve in 2019 were related to the energy they delivered in 2017, so compared to what they delivered in 2017, their task was 1.5% saved during 2019. And this, given that for the first time, as the Secretary of State said and said, this is exactly what the Government has introduced, a transitional period was introduced, so on 2019 only those energy suppliers that deliver more than 300 gigawatt hours in total to final customers, 2020, that is, this year's savings should be done by those suppliers that deliver up to a maximum of 100 gigawatt hours, and the next 2021, and those suppliers who, two years before that, in 2019, will be delivered to final customers 50 gigawatts of hours of energy. So, something that is newly introduced, and now that the Law has been passed, in that Article 13, paragraph 14, it is said that the Fund will determine how much the price in kunas per kilowatt hour is for each saved kilowatt hour, and everything that is more than what they have failed to save, and then, more than 10%, for that amount, suppliers have to pay into the Fund. Of course, if this is the first time, it's logical that now, when you first see how much it would be, to make adjustments, and not to break the whole system. Therefore, in this Article 13, a new paragraph 15 is introduced, which says that this amount is in fact 50%. When we look at this amendment and supplemental proposal, some of the remarks that come during the public debate, it is seen that the only other comments were the companies dealing with the gas business, and we were here today also discussing the gas market law where we still have a clear price regulation in one part, not a market principle, so we see that other sectors already have no problems with this efficiency, but only gas business or companies dealing with gas distribution or supply, and it is necessary to take such measures in order that our final customers and 2020, as well as in 2021, remain at the same gas prices because of course if it becomes burdensome for any business at all, and the price of gas is regulated, then it could cause a disturbance on the gas market and they could then compensate for it elsewhere, and that would mean that it would be overrun into the part that part that which is on the market, so we know that it is only the first thing that we have been applied here. 2018. So, I support this proposal, maybe over time it'll take a little bit more to correct things because this is something new that we've just started introducing, but it'll see when these suppliers come to us with 100 gigawatts of hours, with 50 gigawatts of watch, so during this 2020 and afterwards during 2021. After 2021, the gas market will open up completely, so in all these energy parts we will have a market principle and I think by 2022 we will be able to balance the system in order to achieve the effect that this law wanted us to fast, which is to work on energy efficiency but also not to violate the system and increase the costs of final customers, so the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187211	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Slaven Dobrović will speak before the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187212	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the Secretary of State with an associate and, of course, all respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Why did I give such a replica to the secretary of state? Because nothing else can actually be seen here but a very administrative approach is given and that the full power of this measure, therefore energy efficiency, is actually not revealed by our society and let alone exhaust itself. So what would be energy efficiency anyway? This would therefore have an impact on a system, productive and serviceable in such a way as to improve it so that the same effects, same products, same service, same condition, housing is achieved with a lower energy consumption. It's energy efficiency. So we have the same output with a smaller energy input, and that is one of the 3 directions that are drawn as the objectives of the EU energy strategy, so with energy efficiency, we are talking about increasing the share of renewable energy sources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And we know for sure already over almost 15 years of energy policy 20-20-20 when 20% of energy efficiency increases, 20% emission reductions and a minimum of 20% of renewable energy sources were defined as the target by 2020. These targets increased, we have a new edition, I think in 2014 when the 2030 targets were defined by the same 3 directions that are then talking about 27% increase in energy efficiency and also renewable energy sources and 40% reduction in emissions. However, these are not separate sectors, some measures operate in 2 or even 3 directions, and therefore it is not good to observe them separately but it is all connected and therefore energy is involved in all sectors of society, in all industry and it is much more important to observe therefore individually such important complex things. We know well that now here is the energy strategy within the Green Plan, which provides that climate neutrality is defined as a framework objective, so the continent of Europe that has decided what is good, become a leader of the world and show responsibility to our environment, because I think it is clear to all, are not issues that are allowed to be ignored today, and that would mean by 2050 that we should reduce emissions by 95%. Is there room for energy efficiency? It's a hell of a thing. So when we look at these documents that are proposed here, and when we see that the ministry, let's say, went to the supplier to what extent they included, let's say biofuels for these energy suppliers, then it's clear that something has been sought and somewhere to quantify this, this change of system and, of course, these are loads for suppliers, I agree that, that everyone has to fit in, and so do they. But what does it mean, for example, by substituting part of the energy that is placed on the market with biofuels? Is that an increase in energy efficiency? Well, it isn't, actually, but it's the part that concerns renewable energy sources because biodiesel or bioethanol as fuels, let's say they interfere with what people pour into their vehicles, it's in their organic footprint, let's say they don't have a fossil character that relieves them of greenhouse gas emissions, and that's allowed, of course, to calculate that this burden is smaller and desirable to increase shares, so biodegradable or green fuels. However, I argue that it is a great shame for one country not to connect sectors and, and all look through a narrow prism, through one very strictly defined glasses where only one large and important policy has come down to an administrative measure. Now I'm going to mention, let's say what's going on, it's the same ministry just another sector, the waste, these famous CGOs are funded, which I was talking about, although they're not at the top, but at the bottom of the hierarchy and there's a whole series of measures that should be financed before that, but still these contracts are signed, and let's say one interesting thing is Lucino's Distance down by Dubrovnik, it's over 50 km from the largest source of waste, and now look at all, I've roughly calculated that it's at least 200 000 km of new, a new road which, because of that kind of approach, would have to fly over a year, 200 000 kilometers would be at least this 50,000 gallons of diesel. So, this solution, except that here I'm not going to talk about other effects, so the fact that materials will end up as fuel or inert waste for, for disposal, but purely at the level of transport, so this solution goes from someone else to new, so 50,000 gallons of diesel fuel and the combustion of that fuel in those engines, which has a whole series, so the question is greenhouse gases, but it's not just greenhouse gases, so it's also a whole series of contaminants that come out of such engines. So talking about energy efficiency, not seeing what's going on in these sectors is pretty blinded by one policy. Another example, city transport systems. Be careful, cities would have to convert their, their public transport or transport in general, strengthen a public component that would, of course, be more environmentally acceptable, whether it's electric buses, whether it's a tram or something third, railways, mostly with a mere reduction in the number of vehicles where people drive to work individually and create traffic from work, fuel consumption, in efficient public transport can be made very much. Is that energy efficiency? It's very energy efficiency. So it's also if we're talking about electricity as something that would be energy for that public transport, then it's possible that an increased share of renewable energy sources, that's also reducing emissions, so there's always all three directions of action here. We have, I don't know, a third example, a lot of public institutions and under control of management and cities, but also countries are heating up today with the worst energy, so lush oil that, I don't know, how many can have up to 1 or 0.5% of today's sulphur, what is it, what is it, what is it, what kind of energy is it? I know that this is a series of individual drives, but of course one state policy can and should affect it, can and should affect the policies of the units of local self-government and regional policy, anything under public governance can and needs a stat in one, one car and push towards increasing and energy efficiency. What would it mean to change that energy there? For example, everyone mentions and the other day there was a conference on biomass in, organized by the wooden cluster and this bio, where it was mentioned, so it was precisely biomass and the need for public institutions to be converted into biomass boilers, for pellets, so one such conversion already means a lot. The boilers can probably be more efficient today, so the input is less energy efficiency, so we have a complete transition to the renewable energy source and it's probably CO2 has been completely reduced because it's not this greenhouse gas emissions because it's this short-circuit CO2 and ultimately it's probably less harmful emissions. There may be a better solution, somewhere more applicable because it doesn't have to be the same everywhere, so heat cranes. So heat cranes that today are fully and fully market-friendly and competitive technology with which it is possible to invest a kilowatt of electricity to drive the compressor to get 3.4 kWh of heat for the purposes of some heating or even 5.6 depending on the system we use from the environment. What kind of transformation is that? Well, that's certainly energy efficiency increased, it's a renewable energy source, especially if it's paired with some photovoltaic system or it's from a network, so it's a structure, some energy mix, and ultimately it's less emissions. All of this is present and visible and should be presented in the methodology as an increase in energy efficiency, it is a matter of methodology that is permitted. Therefore, there is no need to administratively restrict one policy to a set of 25 taxpayers, but it can be extended to become one national policy. I therefore propose that the ministry request that a quality workshop be organised. We have a whole series of colleges and universities, institutes that are able to make one workshop so that the state administration, the apparatus, is familiar with all possible directions of action of a state policy, that this does not have to be reduced to certain individual administrative measures but can be extended and the effects can certainly be significantly greater. This will make use of the tools, and Croatia's perspectives as a country that, within the framework of the European green agreement policy, should take a more aggressive, more important, more ambitious role, in a way that benefits from it through here its scientific research institutions, but also through the economy, because I think that these responses to new opportunities are possible, significantly faster, especially if they support themselves with smart investment, so again with this European money that is our money, but through the instrument of European policies can be directed in a high-quality way and get a very fast and good return and effect at our national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187213	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Tarritash's turn to speak for the GLASs Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187214	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. As someone here has already said, we have an amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act, this amendment and the addition of the law applies to only one article and that is to Article 13 in which the two paragraphs are changed, one item is added. In contrast, it is a relatively simple change. But as soon as the Energy Efficiency Act is in our debate, it requires us to really debate or much broader, but I'm really going to do a few things right now. We from this amendment and the addition of the law can see a lot and see how it really works with us. First of all, it's an emergency change. Why is it an emergency change? Because, and the basic law is from 2014 and the amendment and addition we had 2018. Why is it an emergency change? The urgent change is because it says that the parties are in debt to the ministry once a year from 2020 to 1 March of the current year for the previous year to submit a report on the savings achieved, to final customers, to their consumption, so that I am not reading the provision now. Today we are on February 26th, and we have to leave urgently because among other things in paragraph 14 which is changing says that the ministry has to do something about it by March 31st, so we're going urgently because suddenly it's 2020. We didn't know that it was coming in 2019, 2020 and that we have some obligations in 2020, but it surprised us in 2020, so we decided to leave urgently because we don't have anything else. The second thing, the first topic of this urgent change is that the ministry says, we can't do it in a month, we need a longer deadline, we extend the deadline to 31 May because we need a longer deadline, with the analysis showing that a very large amount of the ministry was to determine that we have 25 debtors at this point. So the ministry admits them and says, we can't write those 25 down, we can't record with all the computers we have, all the Excel plates or whatever it takes, we can't do it in a month, we need at least three months. And the third reason is, in fact, what is changing, changes and says the following, what we have committed those who, once again, will mention that provision in paragraph 10, which the party says is a bond and are obliged to fulfil their obligation in three ways. One way to do something and improve energy efficiency, by encouraging energy efficiency in final consumption, so that we do something. Secondly, we're not doing anything to pretend that this doesn't apply to us, but we're going to buy determined energy savings and we're going to pay the third. And now we realize that this third model we're going to pay a little bit of a problem, that 2.19 kuna per kWh hour is too much, and we're going to cut it to half, which is going to be 1.1 kuna per kilowatt, because the explanation is that these 25 taxpayers' energy efficiency system that the ministry has issued a solution if they're not doing anything, and obviously they're doing very little or nothing would pay a sum of 754 million kuna. The dragon measures have never proved effective. So if you have some kind of dragon measure or some amount that is insurmountable of course, then everyone invents how to play it, how not to pay. So if you're going into some kind of reduction somehow it's better if that reduction is something that's real than something that's unrealistic. Then take a look at who made comments on this bill, which this reduction is too much. Thermoplin, Energy Naturalis, which is also connected to gas, Brodoplin is the only name said by the City gas station Zagreb. In the City gas station of Zagreb, I haven't seen it once before, I'm living here a little bit less, something a little bit more now that it was when it happened, the cheaping, the cheaping. The city gas station Zagreb must be hiring someone at this time in the City gas station Zagreb because the City gas station Zagreb has become a haven for all friends, friends, wives, lovers, lovers, nieces, nieces, aunts, aunts, uncles and all the needs of all current, past and future coalition partners. Therefore, the City gas station Zagreb is well aware that it has made observations, but the City Gaskers Zagreb are the citizens of the city of Zagreb the least important because only through this regimen of employees there is no room for any savings. So this change came for the reason that happened to us in 2020 quite suddenly and for the reason that through this urgent change we actually admit something else. And this is what we're clearly admitting. And the fact that the green deal that happens with the mouthful of those says a trillion EUR is available in EU funds, sounds good on paper, that our prime minister looks great when he stands by the President of the European Commission and says here and Croatia takes care of climate change. Otherwise, at EU level, climate change is no longer talked about, rather than climate crisis, and reality is something different. This amendment to the law says that reality is something different, that we really don't do what we should do, that all the jobs that should be adapted really and combating climate change, one thing is energy efficiency we don't do. And this turned out to be, we're not going to do it any further because it's going to be too expensive for us to pay, so let's make it cheap for what we pay less. We should be worried about that, too. We should be worried about the fact that what other countries do, we don't. And when other countries, when Croatia is measured by 27 EU members, other countries will be somewhere, and we will be at the bottom and we will be very surprised again, it will surprise us again why we are at the bottom. Because if we solve things, we solve things exclusively paper. We're going to do it paper again. The ministry said, I can't for a month get 3 months, those who, therefore, have no intention at all in terms of energy efficiency to increase their production will reduce what they need to pay so that we have less to do with energy efficiency. So, if someone can explain to me what this government policy is, the paper policy, the politics that everything stands on paper, the policy about real life being something different. And about the fact that other countries go ahead and take care of it, and we'll take care of it and you know what you have to have that strategy scribbled I have, you have to rewrite this scrigulatedly, but then we come to real life and in real life what energy efficiency can do, it can do at all levels, it can make me always talk about construction that is the simplest thing to me, at this point Croatia would all those houses that were made in the '60s, '70s and 80s because behind that was taken care of some other things they should be under the skin. We should withdraw all the funds that can be withdrawn, and not as the ministry has said, we will not withdraw the funds or we will not enter the project as the EU predicted, because it is too complicated for us to use our own funds. Instead of having a beauty, all possible and own funds and EU funds and banks that have green loans. Equally related to traffic, so traffic is something where you feel the most, therefore, the greatest impact on CO2 reduction you can have through traffic. And through what kind of traffic? Through a public mode of traffic. So there's, I mean, someone before me said so to cut the car flow to cities, we're all under the influence of the coronary virus and we can't be eco, all the scientists say calm down. Among other things, I heard today or read on the portal of one respected scientist who said, we really live at a time of great climate influence and climate change, this is just one of the viruses that will appear, a series of others will appear, we need to prepare ourselves. You can never prepare yourself, but you can prepare yourself for some other things to do, to somehow reduce that influence. He says it's just gotta be done, but I need to get away from the corona virus that is like that. Those masks that are missing Croatia has imported from China and Italy. Imagine that someone instead of doing some kind of home production, some kind of small company, the one that produced a plastic bag that no longer exists, who decided to produce masks. So that's something you've already done in terms of adaptation to climate change, in terms of energy efficiency, but to go back to energy efficiency in transport. The total energy should really be that public transport and not only urban traffic, but also traffic between cities, so all cars are, big debates have given 'em fuel, 'it's electric cars,' it seems to me that in this debate, it's going to be electric cars, it's really going to be loaded in Europe, it's building up full steam, lithium as one of the metals that's experienced its great Renaissance in the last 10 years is easy and it's being built into batteries, it's really becoming something that's extremely useful on the market and we have it nearby. In the context of all of this, I cannot go back to Mr Bandic, who is a coalition partner to HDZ this assembly and Mr Bandic as a junior partner in the City Assembly, in the context of all this through his plan, which is fortunately delayed, I hope permanently, he plans to build public garages in the city center, it is an invitation for you all to come to the city center and park. There's no one who wouldn't like to park their pet in the elevator if he could go where he's going but we have to live in some real time and in some real frames. I must say from the ministry that when the Ministry of Environment and Energy was established, I am very clear and to say and speak loudly about that it is simply not, that energy should not be combined with environmental protection but what it is, there it is. The ministry would expect a series of incentives, a series of things to force these 25 debtors to really implement and do energy efficiency, not for what they didn't do and what they said we wouldn't do, they'll pay less. If anyone can explain it to me too much, everything's fine. So the point is to really change everything and be energy efficient in your production. You're not that. And we know you didn't and you said I wouldn't be and you said I couldn't be and you threatened and you said, if you made me pay for this, I'd pick it up for the citizens, so the citizens always pay for everything. Citizens who pay gas in the city of Zagreb pay for the employment of a bunch of different people in the City Gasport. They pay and they always pay. So, you don't deal with energy efficiency, you say I won't deal with it, it pisses me off, you blackmail me, and you say if you leave it to me, then you see how I can buy it, and we say it well, and in 2020 it came to us suddenly, we didn't know where 2018, 2019 and 2020, so now in the emergency procedure we're giving a law, where in the emergency procedure we find it, or through the amendment of the law, we find two things. First, that the ministry is inefficient in terms of energy efficiency and that it can't build in a month, but it needs 3 months. And secondly, let's say look, we still have energy efficiency on paper, those who said it wouldn't work, they threatened to, so we cut them down. We at the GLAS club can't support such a change of law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187215	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187216	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The changes are quite short but the debate and the essence of all this law is far, far beyond. We are actually prescribing these amendments, and here, we have also submitted a certain amendment to bring those deadlines in line until they have to submit reports, so that it is until April 1st, and then the ministry is still one month later. But what's crucial. What's the point? The aim must not be identified with the method, de facto the objective must not be punishment. Our goal must be to increase energy efficiency especially when we talk about savings here, energy saving obligations to energy suppliers that they deliver to final customers. What does that mean? So far, we've had a formula to show that no one, given the provisions to whom this applies and that the energy was greater than 300 gigawatt hours, within and connected societies... Those who deliver them, if they didn't have any savings, investments, as far as the amount of energy is concerned, they would all have the obligation to pay more than 750 million kuna in the fund, and that sounds nice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What would that do? Would that also endanger the security of energy supply, or, say, gas? Or not? Would there be an increase in prices? What's our goal? The goal is to invest, not punish. Is that the effect of the combined containers? Well, it is. It's sad. Whether we like it or not, unfortunately too many penalties would affect our citizens, their security of supply, perhaps some of them would go so far as not to be competitive, to close down, to endanger gas supply or to transfer what is equally problematic here to citizens and to say we care. This is not the goal, energy must be available, safe and cheaper, when we talk about energy efficiency as green as possible. So, we are in European proportions of one of the recorders as regards energy restoration of buildings, I'll just mention it, and that's what I'm saying again with the same goal. So far we have agreed on educational institutions over 321 contracts, over 400 million kunas, more residential buildings 554 million kunas, 584 contracts, more than that, actually 16,000 households, public buildings a billion and 14 million over 550 contracts. So, from what is foreseen by the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion by 2020, we have already used 95% of last year, so here we are, in terms of the use of the contracted funds and the contracted ones, absolutely doing a good job. The savings are over 60%, but it's not the only savings. With what these companies are going to pay, we must always find a limit to every tax fee that someone can pay for without being alive. It is neither an interest to destroy anyone, to drive them out of work, or to find their niche in it or to pay off, nor to punish someone for collecting money, the goal is to achieve energy savings in the best possible way and to stimulate them to do so. Of course, again I say there must be a clear indication that when you tell someone that punishment is for something that maybe he doesn't even know and it's not possible to do too big, he won't do it anymore. I don't know if that's good or not. Then we're going to have one, two big maybe suppliers that can bring it out and then what do we get, monopoly, duopoly? And that's actually those things. So with this, if it stays this way, I don't look at it as a guess, I look at it as a potential that doesn't change anything that pleases those greatest who will pay for it and transfer it to the citizens, and not a word that hurts, I'll take it when everyone else fails who can't. Now that's our danger, that's looking a little further. And that's why there's a reduction in that fee that's going to be charged again, and these amounts will be used to rebuild family homes. And why not from the European funds? Because these European funds will not fail, but we will finely diversify them for what we do best in Europe, not in Croatia, in Europe to rebuild more residential public buildings where we will potentially contract over 100% of allocated funds by the end of this year because some others will be below and we have the right to their resources. But then we'll take these funds from the fund and put it in the family houses. Why not European? Because European rules are extremely and very complicated and would add up the whole story for a common man, a four-member family or I don't know which one to renovate its house energy. Would he have to hire consultants to write a project, build project evaluations, write project reports and get into the whole story, and then actually go to a whole other one in complications that European funds require so complicated that they don't have that effect that we want. That's why we're going from our own resources to those who pay the fines, so they'd better be paid the fines than put them all in bankruptcy. And even better, the point is that they work and why they pay the fines, that should be the meaning, not the punishment. This year, more than 140 million kuna will be provided precisely for the restoration of family homes by a simplified procedure from state resources so that anyone normal can be obtained by filling out forms, making energy certificates. And not the various needs that administrative needs require when we receive European funds, and everyone who has done something knows what that means. And we can't expect an ordinary man to know it, take it, do it, fulfill it, and deal with it, and say nothing of it. And that's all the point. So we're going to support this because the goal is not to collect penalties, the goal is to make something natural in that part, to go into green energy, to go to savings, to encourage. And I'm glad that we had an earlier point that we're about to use these carbon monoxide detectors, which are also a security issue, and especially when we look at security of supply, then we're going to come up with energy efficiency issues is obviously if there's no pine energy used somewhere and there's a leak or something good doesn't work that it's going to bring some energy savings, that the corrupt consumption is going to replace new ones where the detectors and in the end line and detect those smallest emissions of carbon monoxide, and that we're not talking about what we're going to save a potentially one life, so no matter who brought this proposal, am I personally or any of us here should always support such things. So I say HNS will support this and I think the goal is to encourage all suppliers of them 25 to just invest in such things, and then punish them at that level that they can pay and stay alive, and not kill them and give them all to once, two big ones and then say, well, look, now I have a monopoly. We can't do that, we have to hold a competition, that's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187217	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Representatives Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs and MPs. Energy efficiency is certainly one of the most important tools in the process of climate change mitigation that we are facing today. We are witnessing that the climate is constantly changing and that in a worrying direction, extreme weather has become a common phenomenon in all seasons, if we can even talk more about division into four seasons today. It is a global problem that requires and a global reaction, so the new European Commission has also presented its European Green Plan as one of the priorities for the next five-year mandate. The main objective and greatest challenge of the European Union's energy policy is to ensure sustainable, secure and affordable energy for its citizens, taking into account sustainable development and environmental protection. However, in addition to a global reaction to climate change, we must face both national, regional and local governance levels, of course with the participation of the citizens themselves. In the context of climate change and the need for efficient use of energy, and the increased use of renewable energy sources, I would single out two initiatives that were launched long ago in 2008, which is the first, Energy Charter of Mayors and Mayors of the Republic of Croatia, and second, the Agreement of Mayors for Climate and Energy. The first initiative, the Energy Charter, was attended by the mayors and mayors, and the mayors expressed awareness and political will on the need to actively promote energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and energy management both in buildings and municipal systems and in citizens' homes and in the business sector. The second initiative, the Agreement on Climate and Energy, is an initiative by the European Commission that brings together mayors and connects local authorities' units to share experiences in the practical implementation of effective measures to improve the energy efficiency of urban environments. It is an initiative that directly encourages local authorities and citizens to participate actively in the joint fight against climate change. We in the IDS are constantly in favour of strengthening the position of the cities and municipalities when it comes to their incomes and powers, but we are at the same time aware and responsible, and the obligations that holders of local and regional authorities must assume, especially when it comes to such an important issue, such as climate change. In 2015, Istra County developed a Sustainable Development Strategy, and in 2016, six Istrian cities as the first in Croatia joined the Agreement of Mayors for Climate and Energy, aware of the importance and initiative. The basic purpose, to remind ourselves, and the aim of this initiative was to realise Plan 20-20-20 by 2020. So 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, 20% of the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption, and 20% less energy consumption. Now that we are in 2020, it is time to draw a line and analyse the current situation, and to come to some conclusions and recommendations for the future, and in particular we need to look back at where Croatia is in all of this, and what we ourselves can and must do. We must not put ourselves in a position to pay possible foams in the future because distributors, that is, the parties to the Energy Efficiency System Bonds, failed to meet the obligation to implement energy saving measures in time, and we can now say that these amendments and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act are mildly priced by increasing prices to citizens unless they are compensated. And this is especially because citizens, but also the municipalities and cities, through the application of alternative measures, have been responsible for implementing energy efficiency measures through competitions implemented by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which have been implemented since 204th year and have recorded significant savings, and this is confirmed by the European Agency's report and the environment from 2019, resulting in some progress, at first in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also that much more progress needs to be made in the coming period in energy efficiency, low carbon technology, decarbonisation, transport and increasing the share of renewable energy sources, in order to achieve much more ambitious climate targets, which we and the European Directive will achieve. It also needs to be stressed that around one-third of the target of saving and the result of a reduction in economic growth. It is clear, therefore, that we in Croatia still have a lot of work to do in front of us when it comes to energy efficiency. Recently, the Parliament discussed the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, with a view to 2050, clearly states that in order to achieve the energy policy objectives in the future, an increased active coordination of the roles of state institutions, as well as that local and regional self-government should become equal partners to state institutions in the implementation of energy policy. This should certainly include citizens or households, in order to create a synergy approach to implement energy efficiency measures at all levels and in cooperation, from households themselves through local and regional self-government, to state institutions. We in the IDS believe that there is an even more important need to encourage development and examples, the application of energy efficiency in households, which will reduce household costs, i.e. the costs of our citizens, and will be achieved, it is achieved that each house or building is at least in one part energy independent. This would allow, practically, everyone to participate in achieving climate goals in the future. One of the most important areas in which energy efficiency should be encouraged is construction. This applies to both public authorities, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, retirement homes and multi-state buildings and family homes. The Environmental Protection Fund periodically implements certain energy reconstruction tenders, but the number of facilities that can be covered in each individual competition is such that such a pace of energy recovery will take decades to achieve a sensitive improvement in energy efficiency in construction. It is necessary to make additional resources available to local self-government and citizens to speed up the pace of energy recovery and other energy efficiency measures. The State must be more strongly involved with its own resources, as high as possible from the European Funds. As this proposal and amendments to the laws reduces the obligation to pay a 50% fee by distributors for non-executive liabilities to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and this fee provided for by the existing ones should be motivated by them to invest in energy efficiency, and with this reduction resulting from their alleged blackmail signs, the planned revenue of the Fund, the Energy Efficiency Fund and environmental protection for investment in alternative energy efficiency measures will practically be reduced. This will make it difficult to realise the objectives set out in the EU directive, and all because distributors have failed to meet the obligations they must submit by 1 March and therefore require this reduction, so that we certainly need to know for this reduction what the consequences will be or how this amount will be lost to the fund and for future energy efficiency projects. And in the end, it is no doubt that energy efficiency requires huge investments, but we simply have no choice today, we have no alternatives. Investments in energy efficiency and facing climate change are the necessity and reality to be accepted and therefore we need to make every effort, maximum effort in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187219	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives Club, respected counterpart Vinko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187220	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, today we are talking about the Energy Efficiency Act, a very important law and its amendments. As my predecessors mentioned today, the State Secretary himself said there are 25 bonds of the system. It means of 25 companies for which the Ministry of Environment and Energy has issued a solution that sets out the obligation to save for 2019. These are companies whose delivery in 2017 was greater than 300 gigawatts of clock. The Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund has announced the cost of investment in alternative measures to a saved kilowatt hour of 2.19 kn per kilowatt hour for 2019. So two years after the law was passed. This law seeks to clarify the way in which the ministry will determine unfulfilled energy savings obligations for energy-saving system debtors. All system bonds are subject to the applicable law in 2020 until 1 March, and the ministry is obliged to verify the evidence provided of the same savings and a new deadline is proposed for 31 May. The Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund has publicly announced investment costs in alternative measures per saved kilowatt hour of 2.19 kn per kilowatt hour for the stated year 2019 for 25 energy efficiency bonds for which the ministry has issued a solution determining both the savings obligation and the individual energy efficiency system obligors and in case they have not achieved any energy savings amounting to 754.880,000 kuna. It means very high, very high value. The proposal for a new amount or reduction of existing values from 2.19 per kilowatt hour to 50% of its value is equal to 1.1 kn per kilowatt hour. We understand the fact that there would be no disturbance in the energy market and the impact on the end-user energy price, but we still believe that the proposed value will reduce the budget item and we are interested in which, how the emerging situation will reflect on planned investments, because sources will decrease by 50%, which is very important. Whether this law is compatible or in accordance with the EU directives or not, this is a question because some information or some goal we had to get. This law goes according to an emergency procedure, first and second reading, just 4 days before the necessary enforcement or consumption of the existing law, and we wonder whether this is an necessity or a bargaining. From 8.1 this year to 15.1. consultation was conducted with the interested public, reported 4 companies Brodplin, City gas station, Energy Naturalis and Termoplin. Others kept quiet. Does that mean they need it, and these are the ones that need it? Especially her colleague Mrak talked about it, she mentioned especially the City gas station Zagreb, because the issue of savings and the question of how much compensation it will be for all together, probably that document, or that information, we will get in a few months. And then we'll know if it was a guess or if it was a more serious thing. Also, on the 1st of May, on 31st, we think it is too long because if all companies, if all companies in the Republic of Croatia have a mandatory tax application dated 1st and 28, 28th of February, there is no need to expand someone, especially since it is 25 companies, serious companies that have large incomes and whose incomes are literally based on limes, so times millions or whatever, which means that these companies still have a literal application that will at any point talk about their savings because ultimately they live on it. Therefore, we do not understand why it is only as long as it is, or why the extension is up to 6 months or 3 months longer. And secondly, just as I have already cited the issue of income which is, the ministry has been counting on certain incomes and on their investments if these revenues are being made, and now they're going to be cut in half to 50%, I'm asking what we're going to be denied for, for what? Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187221	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, er, so I will very briefly, so I support every solution and every law and every regulation that goes towards that, the Republic of Croatia is following trends, not only European but also globally, and that is certainly climate change, energy efficiency, environmental protection, these are today the top themes in the world, and I think this is a very important topic, which is what my colleague Grgic said before me, so there should certainly follow these trends, and there is also this energy efficiency very, very important. What I personally think is that this issue and this problem are not only a matter of one law, so not only of this, but of broader measures to implement action plans, actions, laws, etc. and that this state should have a slightly more coherent and clearer strategy based on this, among all these segments that make it all together. So, when we talk about energy efficiency, we've made the biggest step right in the public sector, so in public, in public space, let's say, so it's the state that's just doing the energy recovery, which is using all these possibilities, and it's rare for citizens to do this, the fund that's going in as much as it does financially, but I think that the state and the local self-government units are the main bearers of all these activities, but I think we should do even more and more vigorously on that issue. Here, recently I was in Israel a year ago, the Israelis made a whole series of things about it. They have a whole program called the Grind Knesset, which, meaning the knesset who their Assembly, Parliament is restored to full energy, with solar panels, isolation, everything and they are doing it themselves, means the building itself produces energy and you in the lobby of the building have, here the vice president, Brkic knows it also very probably because he has been there several times as president of the Friendship Group with Israel, so in the hall of parliament stands one of these, one monitor on which you see the total cost of that investment in the energy efficiency of that building, see how much energy, energy, energy is produced in minutes, so the whole building is on, on, on renewable energy sources and how much savings are made financially and how much that investment is paid off, so every day is reduced, means that it will be returned in a year and a half and every minute you see how much time. And now Israel is some kind of strategic land for us, so all these things he does, for example. Israel or some other countries in the Republic should apply to me, and not just this, I don't know, the airplane stores fail, but let's watch useful things. So when we look, when we look at Israel, for example. It's a fascinating country to me, so it's the same thing as without, without working, without working surfaces, but agriculture is there at a top level, so now okay, I'm jumping out of the topic that I don't normally do, but this one I think is very important, and I think I have to mention it, so we keep saying that Slavonia can feed all of Europe, and basically here are colleagues from Slavonia where we see that, yes, that's not so, and then you have one Israel that has sand that has come to that level that every plant there has a chip and takes exactly the water as much as it takes, no more, no less, meaning everything is computerized and robotic and they produce it at the highest possible level. Now, these are the countries that we could learn from our predisposition as the Republic of Croatia can do much about it, and that's when we remember when it was a debate about, when it was a debate about planes, when I told us who was going to smell the damage of this failed job because here it's defacto that the Israeli government has practically fooled us because it told us that there's something that isn't there and when I thought it was calming, I didn't think that Israel was paying us some kind of penalty, is it, that we could use some sort of solution, some ideas that people use there and survive in that space very successfully, let's just say these are some examples. On the other hand, we have a whole series, we're talking here today about this law which is one important law and a good thing, and then we have on the other hand the other day a sign in the paper that, for example, The ministry has given up European funds for the energy reconstruction of facades, but will use its own funds, so we have discussed the same on several occasions here in this high house. Then there are various stories of public procurement procedures opening up, why we don't want the European money offered on the plate, so for this one, and even environmental protection, that's the world issue. So, I think every solution that goes in that direction is good, I think, that the RH should follow that, but somehow I think that there is no such determination and we're lagging behind and we're not taking all the good stuff. Here and I mentioned there are a few of these solutions in Israel that I would really like for the Republic of Israel, that the Republic of Croatia, that we can, I think, have people and know that they are doing it, I don't understand why this isn't working, which is why the country is really failing, but, when we talk about it, we need to coordinate it, we need to do it all together, so we can't, on the one hand, bring the Energy Efficiency Act, and then the EU offers us funds to rebuild the facades, and we all know that we're not going to say that we're not going to do it with our own money, and now there's the question of why, either it's incompatial inability or it's a matter of mudging in public supply, because with European money, we all know that this is a little more complicated thing you have to explain every piece of paper, so there. And then it leaves it amongst the people, among the people dissatisfaction. On the other hand, I think we need a little more funding, then financially follow these laws, don't pass laws and solutions, and that money doesn't follow. Therefore, citizens need to be given the same energy recovery of their homes as much as possible and with greater financial resources. The state that that kind of 40% return, but if people have zero and live very badly with small wages, then they can't use it. So you're asked to follow the laws a little bit and fiscal efficiency and to step financially stronger behind all the solutions you're offering. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187223	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187224	Thank you very much. Col. Djijic, which you think means giving up on this fee that these consumers should pay if they do not prove energy efficiency and what kind of message it is sent because it is more or less about companies engaged in regulated activities, means what the state determines both state agencies or regulatory agencies determine. These are distributors which, in your opinion, means specifically, what message does the Republic of Croatia send? In particular, in the context of the adoption of a European Green Plan showing 47 actions to be adopted by Member States in the EU in order to make 2050. Europe was a neutral continent related to CO2 and CO2 emissions, respectively. So on the other hand, on the other hand, I think a very bad message is being sent by our government. Thank you very much. Col. Djijic, which you think means giving up on this fee that these consumers should pay if they do not prove energy efficiency and what kind of message it is sent because it is more or less about companies engaged in regulated activities, means what the state determines both state agencies or regulatory agencies determine. These are distributors which, in your opinion, means specifically, what message does the Republic of Croatia send? In particular, in the context of the adoption of a European Green Plan showing 47 actions to be adopted by Member States in the EU in order to make 2050. Europe was a neutral continent related to CO2 and CO2 emissions, respectively. So on the other hand, on the other hand, I think a very bad message is being sent by our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187226	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187227	Well, in my opinion, colleague Maras is exactly what you said in your last sentence. A very bad message is being sent by our government. So, we have a green deal, it's full of Prime Minister Plenkovic's green deal, every other day we hear green deal, it sounds good, this powerful green deal, and then he paints himself in Brussels and we talk about green trade as priorities of the Croatian EU presidency, then we come to Croatia then we have no excise duty on new cars, then we have no incentive to buy electric vehicles in Croatia, we have a minimum legal person can't use those measures at all, we have an energy recovery with European money funded that Croatia doesn't want to take the money but says we'll do it with our own resources. So we're not even working on carrying out this green deal and reducing this particular CO2 that you're talking about with the works, we're just talking about. So, according to me, the government is sending this message to say one thing, and it's not doing anything quite the way it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187228	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187229	Thank you. You said that Slavons would invest in energy and efficiency, so they would certainly invest in the reconstruction and energy efficiency of their houses and family homes, but unfortunately I agree with you first to have small salaries to go to, and the other one has no competition. For the past two years, this story will go to a competition for energy efficiency and the restoration of family homes, and certainly not, and now this announcement will go to 150 million kunas this year if I've heard well from the secretary of state, so it's only 150 to 200 houses. It'll be the fastest finger ever. It won't be for the Slavons again. And on the other hand, what you're thinking about is the suggestion that if we're in a certain way agreeing to these companies not to raise the prices of citizens against what I am, the price of heat energy, that we can make them invest these 350 million kunas in energy efficiency because this is the way we're going to forgive them. What's next?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187230	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187231	I support your proposal, I just think that if you're giving someone some relief that you need them all legally possible elements so I can say so and force or not force the obligation to invest and return at least a part of it to the state, so that's a good suggestion. And unfortunately, when we look at the practice of this particular Slavonic, and Slavons get the most hurt. So, Slavonia, when you look at both incomes and population standards, is worse than another part of Croatia, the norther, the more developed I come from, and I think that's why the state should say a little bit more in these underdeveloped areas. Because what's going to happen to some family in Slavonia who doesn't have that on the whole household is some income of several thousand kunas now the state is going to subsidize him I don't know the energy recovery of 100,000 kunas, 40% is a lot, but these 60,000 is an impossible mission for them and then they won't even answer, so there isn't and that's not to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187232	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187233	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you mentioned Israel and Slavonia, so here you see efficiency means the implementation of such technologies that can be environmentally acceptable and energy-friendly. In Slavonia, we changed, right on my county, the system of irrigation of the Captains – the village technology from Israel. And that's the problem, we now have a pump pump pump system that leads from the Drava River upstream, so up the hill. These cells when they fall they exceed the far capacity of the water supply system, so it is an extremely expensive system and a question from the energy point of view how effective it is, and on the other hand we have a great danger of flooding.../incomprehensible/... for the water coming from Papuk. And instead of bringing the water down naturally from Papuka down we irrigate, we used the Israeli system and we put a large number of pumping cells and watering the surfaces, and now the question is how much agriculture can be competitive with such a system because that energy has its price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187234	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187235	Well, my colleague, Sagar, I don't think it's the Israeli system that's the problem, but it's the use of parts of the Israeli system if I get it right. So you have applied one part of the Israeli system in Slavonia in an area where there is obviously no other accompanying infrastructure that should follow, if I understand you correctly. I don't know who put a Porsche engine in the stall and then it falls apart after the first 20 meters and you say it's no good a Porsche engine, but it's no good construction from the stables, let's say it. So, the Israeli model, in my opinion, Israel has a bunch of these solutions that work there, and I think they can work much, much better with us, but then it should be applied. So, I don't even know what this technology is in Slavonia, whether Israel may have used it 10, 15 years ago, it's hard to talk about. But here I was, I'm saying it fascinated me that those in the roots of the plant have a chip that takes as much water as it takes that plant to give its maximum with all its strength, so it's so elaborated there. That's what I'm talking about, we need to use it, and I think we can use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187236	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187237	Thank you very much. In recent years, we have all been calling for climate change, which is one of the key problems, and everyone mentions it and it's well-sustained development, renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, we all call for it, and of course everything should go that way. However, as far as Croatia is concerned, when we talk about both sustainable development and renewable energy sources and this Energy Efficiency Act, then they call for climate change, the damages that make up our action. In essence, energy efficiency and the Energy Efficiency Fund I remember in 2014 was for Styrofoam, i.e. 50 million were planned for the facades, but 670 million left during the Vrdoljaks. Whoever's all about it, it's an important segment, so house protection, closes, roofs, floors all okay. However, in the Republic of Croatia, who should work against energy efficiency when our goal is to have the Ministry of the Environment make harmful decisions, and we are referring to these laws. I can set some kind of example, here's an example of waste management. an example of the inspection decision that made the solution to transport waste from Vrgorec to Sinj with old trucks that are diesel fuel of course obsolete, 100 kilometers is transported i.e. 120km of A1 highway and that would be the case in the tourist season. So far, we've managed to stop it with old fuel trucks. So we can also use energy efficiency in transport. Why don't we use buses in public traffic, and that's what we have a fund for it, we have the funds, on the electric drive? Why wouldn't public transport be, and we're not doing the opposite. We have old trucks with the same sanitary conditions in Vrgorec, carrying old trucks to Sinj. So what kind of energy efficiency is that? Well, not only is the energy efficiency of the prime minister's kind words here when it comes to the EU presidency, then it calls for climate change. CO2 prevention and energy efficiency. So we have a number, I'm curious about what took place in the Republic of Croatia, that we don't have 50-year-old buses carrying kids with diesel, and that cloud of oil smokes behind it. I think a tribal would drive if energy efficiency was on the waist probably. The concerns of Mate Junovic Auto Transport Sinj has dealt with it, he cares about it, little pay HDZ, a little SDP campaign and all the good ones. Receipt Milanovic in New Zealand in... as he says, he became the owner of Prometo Makarska, was good with all finance ministers, it gets rid of and now his debtors who gave him that he would bring new buses to rest, if they were not returned to him by the 17 million kuna. So, we don't have energy efficiency in traffic, not only do we not have energy efficiency, but only by the way, they haven't burned the whole school's school bus. Energy efficiency, so come to me, you'll see these buses as energy efficiency in traffic, black smoke cloud behind... you can't help but feel like you're in a mine. And you're talking about energy efficiency, 600 million kunas of Vrdoljak spent your... coalition partner. I see it makes sense to you, it's not meaningful, it's true, it's true in traffic. So here is just that in Split, counterpart Cikotic made a proposal at Karepovac's dump if a solar chargement, solar microsolars were made and only city buses were filled, so that people would not have cheap transportation in public, private vehicles would not be used and spent on liters of diesel, gasoline or anything else, so it is energy efficiency, cheap transportation, use of the sun. And in us it all came down to me, as far as I can see, it's okay, energy efficiency, it's a syrofoam, and it's okay, it's okay. No, Mate Junovic owns Prometheus if you know him, Mr. Schuker. So I'm interested in what's in the traffic, is he bringing something in the traffic? What do you have to do with this energy efficiency besides boasting about this? Of course, we are all to implement energy efficiency, not just on lipic roars that the prime minister boasts that it is for climate change. Are we using enough funds through the Energy Efficiency Fund or is there an effective money laundering, that's the question now, I don't know? If it was planned 50, 60 million kunas during the Vrdoljaks when he was a minister of your Maras, then Vrdoljak was then gone 600 and some million kunas, 12 times more funds. Did we solve this energy efficiency how to solve it? Did we protect, is there less CO2 in the air, is there any promotion of electric vehicles, are they made of solar chargers, is something done about it? That's what I'm interested in. I'm interested in what's simply a parallel world here in Parliament, a parallel world. I'm curious about what we've solved about that. We've got the sun, we can use solar days, and it gives us the bridge of independent lists, even the laws on microsolars. Energy efficiency means cheap transportation, which is less damage to the environment, and that's it, and in traffic we haven't solved, because if the bus has no limitations, it's been driving 70 years out of time, it's not even the Hammer out there in that movie, it's great when they're laying on wood, it's great, and it's reality, it's not meaningful. This is what people listen to, these manifests that you provide and which you have copied from European officials upstairs, but they're basically trying to match it up in Brussels to live like that, but these manifestos on the ground aren't such colleagues, they're not, I saw that it was funny when I mentioned buses of fifty years that every month at least one, two burns, and that only the driver's skills so far are saved, and we're talking about some kind of progress, about renewable energy sources, so today when we're talking about renewable energy sources, when we're talking about energy efficiency, sustainable development, so we don't have irrigation systems in the fields, here's a colleague mentioned a little earlier, we had Cetina going through Sinjsko, we don't have a system of irrigation. It's a little off topic, but the fact that what we're doing here isn't applicable unfortunately, you haven't applied. The only thing that was properly applied by Vrdoljak, when he was minister, he applied it neatly. So we have every opportunity to respect it and to make it, we have people, we have science, as far as solarists are concerned, we have the possibility that in traffic, and not just in traffic, but in every house we have microsolars and that we have bigger, less damage to, to the environment, and that people have cheaper energy, we have everything, but... You will have microsolars, better to deal with with wind power plants, so that the wind power plants are owned by Croatia, but the subsidies are important, owned by Croatian companies, even if they are private, or HEP, or Končar, or some Croatian companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no. And that's a fact. It's about harmful projects. It's important if they lead to Split. We don't know what we're going to do anymore. Let's go to the thermal power plant on Peru. Boric solves it without a problem, has good diplomatic positions, we go to a thermal power plant, 109m high chimney, 700kg of exhaust gas, of which 2%, in a second of which 2% of CO2, and my vice president let that smoke in the Cetina region, and what people are leaving, and that is, that's energy efficiency, it's national security, it's national, it's the independence of energy that this little import gas that we have through these pipes down transfer and that through renewable sources subsidize money who knows who. That's the problem. So the reality and what you're putting on paper, I'd like someone who's in traffic to answer me on this energy efficiency issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187238	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Bulj, you were talking about examples of waste management, waste, energy efficiency, and in fact you're in one part right that it's all a related story, so it's not different stories, and I'm going to tell you now on one example, so by 2016, the state has financed 100% of the management of asbestos waste, in 2016, the state has stopped doing it, and what's happening now? We're talking about energy efficiency, we know that asbestos is harmful, we have hundreds of houses covered by asbestos roofs in Primorje, and now the state should co-finance the replacement of these asbestoss, asbestos roofs, and no longer finance the disposal of this waste, then we find it in nature, then the state again, or cities and municipalities have to clean it up on its own cost, and that's basically what you said, so the government doesn't know what the right thing is doing, and that's the problem, because it's all a related story and it can't be applied in a partial way. We're gonna stand for one here, and that's where we're gonna stand for another, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187240	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187241	... My view is that sustainable development, if we call on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency is inseparable, that includes waste management, and the way energy efficiency, waste management, cost-effectiveness, so it's all connected, we can't solve one thing, and the other we're not, because it's connected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't, you mentioned this case now, but I have a case, and here I'm talking, if, if we're up to energy efficiency, so who knows that from the same sanitary conditions from the dump at 120 kilometers of transport with old trucks that are inappropriate for this time of energy efficiency, we're carrying those old trucks 20-30 years old, diesel, to transport that waste on the highway to the same dumps. Di are sorters, where they are composite, where the recycling yards are to convert that waste and to preserve it, that's the problem, means total sustainable development, and not here tell stories, say 600 million kuna for the methyl façade on the house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187242	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187243	Thank you. Dear fellow Bulj, you mentioned the smoking buses, I'm going to mention another picture in Slavonia, you have 1/3 of the abandoned houses, half of it is just collapsing, of those that aren't abandoned, at least 1/3 isn't even plastered, and when we talk on that side, then we actually see that if we want new technologies and efficient systems in energy, we have to have money, for that we need money, our fleet is old, so Mercedes is now making trucks carrying 30 tons that spend as an average car, it's technology, but that technology is expensive. If we want to do something, then this Fund that exists needs to be really subsidized first of all by this technology, to be used to be a growth of citizens' standards, but first of all, the Fund has to have some kind of attitude towards the economy, without the development of the economy, we won't have jobs, we won't have a standard of citizens, and we won't have the introduction of new technologies. Anyone would like to buy a condensation water heater but it costs, it's just a high price, and people can't afford it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187244	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187245	So I agree that the Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Development Fund would also have to be in this direction, have the means to solve that problem, but traffic and vehicles are if the outdated diesel technologies were 20, 30, 50 years ago, of course, that the funds would have to have funds for that part, for that part, it would be natural, it would mean a complete solution, not only for, mentioning only this part. There's a part about how I see only facades, windows, roofs, and that's okay. But what about the other things? I was also interested in what this fund offers and this law on addressing these energy efficiency problems in transport. When I repeat it to me again today, there are no kids on buses that don't know old age. I say it and repeat it 100 times. We're talking about kids, school kids. 1 to 2 buses per month are burned. How old are they? And we're talking here means... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187246	Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187247	Dear colleague Bulj, here I support all your efforts for green energy, to reduce pollution throughout Croatia, not only in the Cetina region, but I don't think with microsolars we'll be able to run buses that have more than 200 kilowatts, I don't know how much capacity we would need. Electric vehicles are questionable to me how much they pollute or don't pollute, but I think they're more polluting than we think because some of the power comes from a thermopower plant, comes from a nuclear plant, but with these microsolares, we have this very much potential for small hydroelectric power plants, for wind power plants. These are the real renewable sources that are the least polluting by creating them. When we create solars and they cost, their pollution after and decomposition, but the energy invested to create them also has its own price and amount of pollution that they achieve. However, no microsolars will drive buses. It must be a far higher capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187248	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187249	Well, I think we'll soon testify that there will be solar power plants that this will have soon, which will have the possibility and solve this problem both with buses and with vehicles, but this one and there are already certain projects, we have technique, people, but this observation is there, too, you're right in this section where you said about small wind power plants, but obviously they can't get into the quota, small wind power plants, but they're breaking into the big wind power plant quota. The one at Knin's when I go watch what this is? Has anyone been through with Knin recently? You will see what it is, but the peanuts of renewable springs do not stay with the Croats. It's for those renewables they could go to small farmers, I'm here, what you said I'm signing. Well, if it were the owner of one of our men or a HEP or something, so I'd let him put it in front of my house. It was the wind power plant that got them through the landscape 100%, and the money from These sources go into your pockets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187250	Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187251	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, for 10 years I have been free to say there have been several governments who have tried to solve this problem. What I, in my long practice, know and see is the unresolved problems of property and justice, and as long as the property and legal problems of this movement in Croatia are not solved. The laws may be written as they wish, written by a newspaper as it pleases, but if a natural or legal person cannot report to a public tender solely because of the problem of property-legal nature, he cannot participate in this programme, especially when it comes to units of local administrations which are the basis of urban plans, detailed plans, but cannot, under today's property law, get land for that management or for the production of that electricity. And that's the key problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187252	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187253	So that's why we're here to talk about it and get rid of it. I am also interested in what is being done to resolve that it is easier to solve these problems of property-legal relations. Are they in court if the problem, in the book departments, is it in the landers, is that the problem where? So obviously, I'm told there's not enough people. Here's an example of the agglomeration of Sinj, so Trilj, Island 670 million kuna agglomeration system and say the problem is by 2023 we have to finish this project because it's huge money, if we don't end up in a problem we're in. And I ask what the problem is, he says there aren't enough people for property-legal relations in the state, there aren't enough people, and I come to the county and the city office, down there when I go to these municipalities you can't get in from people inside. So we don't have people to be. Croatia needs people in public services, and in legal places and laws to make it easier for the government to resolve it. I agree here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187254	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, State Secretary, here is when we talk about such an important topic that it is impossible to mention the goals that the EU has set for renewable energy and energy efficiency issues, especially in terms of energy neutrality or CO2 emissions as the first continent to have neutrality or less CO2 emissions than Europe absorbs. And then when we see what's actually being proposed by the government here, I think we're generally sending the wrong message. So, if we've already decided to go into something, if we've determined that we're going to do a penal against those who don't prove that they've reduced their energy consumption by a certain percentage, if we've determined those 25 taxpayers, then it's unclear, even if they're in regulated activities, why they're being reduced by sanctions, and it's even unclear why they're being extended to 5 months. Because I think it's clear to everyone here that someone who does certain savings, who plans certain savings knows that throughout the year and already in the 1st month see what the effect was in 2019. But, well, it may not be easy and quick to do it for the first time, but it is completely unclear why they are being reduced by the mandatory fee or penalty under the pretext that it may be spilling over to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is regulated activities. I would remind you that the EU has adopted certain regulations and Member States have accepted them, for example in the automotive industry, for example for vehicles that emit more than 95 grams per mile and that these sanctions paid by car manufacturers will amount to approximately EUR 35 billion in the next few years, which will be very likely through the price of the car, only a little please Mr. Grmoja and Bulj Okay. [[We have a debate, we do not violate regulations.]] This and that EUR 35 billion will likely pay citizens through the price of the car, but these cars and manufacturers will sanction or punish the market and will be regulated through the market. I don't see any reason to cut this, this, this pen if we already have 750 million planned maximum and of course they're still going to make certain savings and that won't be the total amount they're going to pay, but make it half, make it 60%. I see no reason to forgive these companies and to reduce on the other hand the income of the fund, which is supported by projects that may have been talked about by colleagues Bulj and, and other colleagues in their discussions. Because if we want to agree on European countries, EU countries and the European Parliament that we want to increase energy efficiency by 32.5% by 2030 or the share of renewable energy sources in total energy by 32%, then there is no way we can demonstrate first-step fluctuations. So these targets will be revised in 2023. They will be audited by the European Commission and parliament, but they will not be audited further, can only be done, can only be audited more and on this side the Croatian Government sends and the Croatian Government sends an absolutely wrong message. And what bothers me, I'd like to know exactly what companies are and, and I'd like to know at the end of the reckoning how many secretaries of the state we've enjoyed with these changes to individual companies. It wouldn't be a bad idea if HS voted the conclusion that such a report was delivered to us, to see how much this amendment of the law to the company's xy will have financial benefits after the reckoning. It's about tens and maybe hundreds of millions of kunas. On an apology, be careful what the government says, that since it is regulated activities, it is distributors, the state determines the price, that the cost will be passed on to citizens. And now you're telling us that it's okay for someone to forgive 20-30 million kunas and that we're doing it in HS, and that here at all, in addition to this document, it would be correct if you had at least delivered what companies are talking about and what communication it is with these companies and whether companies themselves have warned that they will not have this goal, so let's see which names we're discussing because colleagues and colleagues here are talking about millions of kunas, tens of millions of kunas that will be forgiven in accordance with this law by individual companies. Secretary of State, I expect your, your reaction, to tell you exactly which companies have warned you that they will not honor this and which companies of this have financial benefits. That's what Croatian citizens need to hear, that's what they need to hear, and I see again that it's funny for my fellow Boric, that he is calling and signaling to the secretary of state and reducing the right of citizens to know who is being financially affected here. It's clear to HDZ, it's a modus operandi that HDZ has been doing for decades, a little pitorescue listens yesterday to Prime Minister Plenkovic sound like News Bar news that HDZ should be a pioneer and leader of the fight against corruption, that is, what we heard yesterday is true to believe or not, like when Sanader was 2007.-'08. They're telling me where these HDZ thieves are, has anyone seen them? So that's why we shouldn't underestimate any such question, Mr. Boric, or shake hands, or... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Mr. Vice President, my colleague... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187256	A colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187257	... Boric, Boric is threatening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187258	Comrade Maras, first of all, don't call your colleagues, if anyone's interrupting your speech in the session, I'm here, so I'll warn him, and you're doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187259	All right, I'm just asking you to react...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187260	Your colleague, Comrade Boric, please don't disturb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187261	Boric, a colleague of Boric's, with non-bal communication, constantly challenges... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187262	You called him a colleague of Maras and please proceed with the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187263	So here's a colleague of the vice president and secretary of state I expect, I expect your reaction and information to see who is forgiven by tens of millions of kunas. That's what's very important to hear here because I think none of us care when we look at certain trends in Europe when a message like this is sent that we will ignore climate change and that we will not go after energy efficiency and that we will take a step back instead of seeing anyone who sees both droughts and changes in time and, and rainfalls, and floods and slides and all of this, which is caused by climate change must cause a reaction to us. So when I look personally and units of local self-government, someone mentioned and commended them, and that I agree with the local self-government unit doing a good job. For example, when I see in Zagreb 1066 objects owned by the city and when I see the minimum funds invested in these facilities, when I see schools, kindergartens that do not have a new carpentry, but their carpentry is waste because it is 50,60,70 years old, when I see what facades look like in the city of Zagreb, then I see how far we are essentially from some ideal values or amount of investment that should be invested there. Because if you are not working in the city of Zagreb, if you are not working in a Croatian metropolis where there is the most money, how do you expect to work with colleagues of Bulja in Dalmatia who have no money at all. And it's no wonder we're talking about buses of this quality when the general state doesn't care about it, when the capital of the Republic of Croatia doesn't care about it, and when we watch how much CO2 emissions in Croatia are made annually, it's 39 million tons, we have to be aware that each of us individually distributes global pollution or spends products, and we should always start from what you do at home, from what the city looks like to you, as the state looks to you. And any message that would take a step back, and this is definitely a step back, so we've passed the bill, we've set the pen, and now we're reternizing. That's not good, I can't support it, and I think we're generally sending the wrong message no matter what any of us think. This has nothing to do with the parties, it has to do with our determination, commitment to address the problem of climate change and ultimately the possibilities and energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187264	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187265	Comrade Maras, I support your idea that the Parliament is voting to see which companies will benefit from the adoption of this law. And you see what interests there are when even individual representatives threaten you, they say we'll talk later. So what's that interest when you and individual representatives, not just government people, are saying they're defending someone's interests. It's unheard of to me that Mr. Vice President you didn't react, that someone was yelling from the bench, and later you and I would talk. It's all clear what's behind it, so that's what to say. My colleague Maras, knowing you, I know that you are not afraid and that you will talk about it as much as I do and no threats will scare us. But that's why we need to look for answers, and we're going to insist until we get them, who gets them, who gets them, and how much. Look, I've never experienced this before, so when someone from the government protects you from someone's interest, but when one of the 151 people here yells at you, we'll talk later, then you know what interest is behind it, it's for concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187266	Thank you. A colleague, Djujic, I took it as an invitation from my colleague, Boric, to have coffee with his colleagues, and they will handle it on their own. Here you go, colleague Maras, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djijic, so it's clear that my colleague Boris can't scare anyone here and can have threatening messages, he can do business with the secretary of state because I've seen a few gestures that the two of them understand each other very well, and as if he's a colleague, Boric, you don't have to answer anything that asks you here in the Assembly which companies are covered, let them talk, we'll sort it out. But, of course, at some point in time, the answer will come and my colleague, Boric, no matter how hard he tries, won't be able to stop us from getting the answers the citizens are looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187268	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187269	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Maras, so when this current law was passed and compensation 2.19 always the ministry and representatives of the ministry say an impact assessment of the regulations was made. So the ministry also knew that this fee of 2.19 would amount to 750 million kuna in gross and also knew the companies mentioned here, 25 of them among others and Plinar Zagreb, Brod-gas and so on. And now we're half-forgiving them, okay, so they don't pick up the citizens. But I agree with you and I suggest here publicly that when you calculate what it is if it is 20, 50 million kunas that they are conditioned that they can't spend it on cars, on material costs, but that they have to invest in energy efficiency. For example, let the Ship-gas in Slavonski Brod halve the price of the gas connection to the citizens of Slavonski Brod, to switch from furnace to solid fuel to gas, with 50% of the price will be more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187270	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187271	Well, I have a better proposal for Mr Vlaovic, so don't let Mikulić hire his party colleagues in Zagreb Plinar, this might be a proposal because we saw how it works in the division of HDZ and Bandic in the city of Zagreb, one of my companies, another of my companies. And on this side here, perhaps if party members were not employed and members would already be a contribution and perhaps have less costs than they have today and there would be no need for a reduction in compensation. But I'm absolutely against it being reduced, because there's no reason. It must be a sanction when we bring it in, they need to know they'll pay for it if they don't do something. Next year, we'll bring something else, and we'll re-correct it, and there'll be no purpose and goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187272	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187273	Thank you. My colleague Maras mentioned a very important thing, these are public-owned buildings, for example. hospitals that are big energy consumers. So there are specialised companies that make calculations, budgets, energy consumption in such facilities, and for that to be allocated money, it is also necessary to allocate money for those recommendations that these companies make, in fact, for those project solutions that they provide for energy savings. Such a way of handling would save considerable resources especially in the part of the hospital system where we have great losses. These are serious jobs that need serious access. You're right to wonder where the money will come from if the funds of the fund are now cut. I am most interested in the fact that the fund has fulfilled its purpose all these years, and to what extent has it fulfilled that purpose? This kind of fund, if it keeps working like this, we don't really need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187274	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187275	Thank you very much. At first glance, everyone would say in Croatia, trends are okay, CO2 emissions are down, and there are some shifts. But the problem with Croatia is that these shifts are exclusively from the decline of industrial production and the weakening of industry, because fewer people work, we have fewer factories, we have less energy consumption in the industry itself, and Croatian savings are achieved in the wrong area. I'd like to, once again, tell you that when we go into a penalization to stick to it because it doesn't make any sense. Now imagine if the European Commission said no, we weren't joking about the auto-industry and emissions per kilometre of 95 grams, so we won't punish the auto-industry with 35 billion euros, which is estimated to be, but we'll forgive them and we'll cut it in half to 17. This is, for example, a message sent by the Croatian government, believe me, it's about billions of euros. Then there'd be just as many of these smiling faces as they were colleagues today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187276	Thank you. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187277	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something I want to say since we have here a candidate for mayor of Zagreb who will probably be independent because this president will certainly not propose him, although he is trying very hard. But he didn't even read the law, but he asked several questions neatly from which they were all responsible only to read, so he knew which company this law applies to so that he could calculate some of the costs, that he knew how many households he should care about as a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, etc., etc. But as he has been very cheerful lately and very conveniently represents himself and criticises the current mayor, he simply forgot what to say at all, and that it seems to have been wise, except of course to accuse the government of not knowing anything and that all of this is really lame for him, even though we are talking about no amounts that perhaps tomorrow should pay just like the citizens of the city of Zagreb, which he is very much fighting for. Nothing, zero points, Mr. Maras, you simply brought it down to debate with me, nothing caused by which we should discuss the topic of energy efficiency. What you knew and could have done in your term and as minister and all those who were your colleagues, who had overlooked the number at their disposal, and I don't know what time I was talking, where 50 million kunas were written for energy-efficient facades, and 670 agreed. ...as much as you miss, and then someone after you had to take care of it, practically the fund was ineffective, we couldn't call a single contest, for the first two years, so we had to raise the loan to get it back, so we gave it back. Because someone's responsibility in terms of planning and realisation has realised exactly that minus in one fund that was established to collect revenue on the basis of certain fees and help energy efficiency, and everything else regarding waste management and everything else. But you didn't care too much, you raised your hands on the government for everything that was proposed and you were the smartest in everything, nothing that bothered you too much. And again you're offering yourself as mayor, I guess tomorrow and the minister who's going to take care of what? It's about small entrepreneurs again, so 70,000 of them went missing in your term of office. So these stories of yours that are very clearly explained here, so you know what the cost is now per kWh of the energy delivered and how much you should pay from those 25 you mention. Is it okay that those who have a regulated activity to make it easier for them since they don't even have an impact on some moments of energy efficiency? If we organize one building where there is an energy-efficient facade, we deliver into it energy that should be less effective if it's energy-efficient, is it okay if we pay the same bills or even bigger in that building? Well, these are some questions we're going to have to answer in the next period. That we have learned everything about energy efficiency in the past 7 years of the EU or in preparation a few years ago we have not. We learn what we need every day to be better at it. It was a concept that many once approached, perhaps with a smile. Why do we even need a certificate on some kind of facility to know how effective a building is or what the certificates on some kind of apparatus are? We bought what we were offered. One of them obviously did something different, and what's wrong with that? If he didn't try to transfer the burden from this government to the citizens next year, maybe more than this, higher than the obligations that would be made in one gas station, which is there for you along the way to deliver heat when it's winter and it doesn't matter what the cost is and who we're going to give it to, maybe the citizens who need to choose me as mayor because I'm the smartest, I know everything. That's what we're talking about. It's very simple. It's all written to you. Read the whole law from the reasoning and the opening part to the end, even to those remarks that some have made clear to you. Well, only colleague Vlaovic understood what was behind you. And then you give lessons here as well as others, we know everything and talk about 100-metre chimneys. Okay, it doesn't matter what they have to do with this, but they're 100-metre chimneys and diesel buses. So no one wants to say how much this government has invested in a public transport system in large cities, everyone boasts, here comes Mr. Obersnel and boasts, some new buses have arrived. And there's a few of them on fire. Why? For the sake of non-maintainment, they may have traffic problems or some other towns of Split, Osijek, Zagreb, so it is helpful because it is available to us. We've heard 95% of the energy efficiency funds have been agreed that by 2023 everything will be realised, I hope these 5% will be missing as well. It's a good subject, but not like this. It's all bullshit. What's wrong? You don't care at all about the citizens of the city of Zagreb, you would have given them the price twice as much by the year because you simply advocate that this law is not passed. We've extended the deadlines to submit for the first time and those reports, we've had no experience. Are we going to have experience now? We will. We've collected final data. We know more than we knew last year. And that's what I need to talk about responsibly, and he didn't say anything to me, he threatened me. What's the threat? This is what I was talking about, that we're gonna talk about because you don't understand any problems. You came here to politicize here and tell everyone that they don't know anything, only I know, I know everything. What do you know? You put 70,000 of them in a key like this, you were spinning around there, promoting for a year at the expense of taxpayers. And what did you do? Nothing, there was nothing. That's what we need to talk about. It may not be the best way for me to talk to you like this, but when you keep calling me because you don't have anyone here, I guess. So citizens need to know who is for this who wants to contribute in some way to their home budget, but also that this one, one company or company that was singled out in 2008 and has a regulated activity does not get into trouble, its own problems of inability to function normally. And the government understands that, and you think it's all funny because you understand it in a different way. And let's bring it down to some kind of cars that have nothing to do with this and some other issues that have nothing to do with the law. And the secretary of state is going to tell me how much money there is, so I don't know what to do with it. So write it all down, read it, and see how much money there is, and look! Read it before you start to argue, read it. Well, you're a mathematician, so you know how much. So I want to. I want to end up saying that this law should be supported. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, please.]] There is an article, an important article that contributes tomorrow, I tell the Croatian citizens and households that are supplied with energy, and of course there are the gas companies most interested and ask for even less than this, as far as we have seen. And this is even too much for them. And they want even less because they know they have a problem, but the energy efficiency system is a set of measures and I believe that it contributes now 7 years since we joined the EU that it will certainly contribute even more in some future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187278	I thank my colleague, Boric. You and your colleague Maras have a special emotion for each other. Here, replica of my colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187279	Thank you very much. I don't have any special emotion, I simply react and would recommend my colleague Boric not to touch the relationship with other parties because we remember him as the most loyal servant of Ivo Sanader, he ran for Jadranka Kosor, jumped and clapped for Karamark, and now he probably does the same thing to Plenkovic, and he probably doesn't want to sign Mr. Kovac and Mr. Brkić out of fear. How do I know that? Well, I know, I get the feeling that if Mr. Boric can deny me let him say he signed all the candidacy and let him boast about it, but I have a feeling he's not that kind of guy. So on the other hand, we've heard interesting data from Mr. Boric today, let's say that the gasman delivers heat, so it's another such information that we didn't know so far and that these companies don't affect some moments of energy efficiency. Here, I'm interested in what moments of energy efficiency are you able to explain to us, Mr. Bora? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187280	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187281	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras as one of the, actually as some aunt you're actually here in this assembly, simply interpreting in your own way everything someone said. For God's sakes, you write something down, so you mock it, etc., it's some way of treating your colleagues, in what way. So what I'm supposed to tell you is what you were talking about your President Bernardic why your 4th faith is still suspended, etc., that you are now mixing politics into a stranger, in parties with this energy-efficient, energy efficiency law. Because of the ego? What am I? And what are you? Big lion or what? I mean, really... [[Intruder: Dear, esteemed colleague Maras...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187282	Comrade Boric, just a minute. My colleague Maras, based on Article 239, I give you a reminder. Here's my colleague, Boric. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187283	How do we talk to a man who experiences himself in this way and everyone else here, every day someone tries to make fun of some kind of mockery or whatever. And then he's surprised he's getting injuries from the Rules of Procedure. reminders, he's being thrown out of the assembly, etc. He doesn't even know what he's talking about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187284	Thank you. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187285	Ah, it's hard to replicate now after this debate. You've had one of the most emotional speeches of this time and basically when I've listened to everything you're saying you're one misunderstood bohemian, one lover, no one understands you, we don't understand you, we have no idea, you're talking here the government wants help Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, people don't understand. So you keep telling us that we don't understand anything. And here your people don't understand you in Lopar, and the government wants them to help you, so they've knocked down all your points at the last session of the city council, and they don't understand you there either. So now I don't know what the problem is. Maybe there's a problem in everyone except you. Let's just say, there you said that the municipality is in a blockade, on the council, because your councillors don't accept the help of the government that the government is offering to your community. So now, maybe they don't understand either, or you're basically an misunderstood dreamer, I'd say more, but basically, I like that about you. Just ask yourself a little bit, maybe it's not all about you, it's all about you. I mean, I don't think about you personally, don't give me God, so think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187286	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187287	Thank you very much. I understand why you don't want to understand me because I remind you what you were and what you're offering to be again. So I always remind you of the time you've been responsible for this country, for the citizens you've been doing, and it's really bothering you, because you don't even want to remember that time. It's a disaster for you and you know it even though you're trying to say it was great. Even here, my colleague Bulj is mixing Mr. Vrdoljak with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, not Mr. Zmajlović was responsible for those facades, SDP. So we know that story. And I keep mentioning it and it bothers you. And as for a council that doesn't want well for its community, what should I do to them, from the SDP, some Modes party? PGS, these are all your coalition partners. They don't want us to build a kindergarten, and they don't want me to raise their hands if they don't want me to. They don't think it's necessary. Or anything else we want to do. They have their own style, it's this political style of populism in which they don't want to make decisions, but we know everything, and when we come to power, everything will be great, so do you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187288	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187289	Thank you very much, dear secretary, with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. I initially said that, as I said and individually that I listened and it is good to talk about, about climate change and sustainable development and renewable sources or this Energy Efficiency Act, it is good to discuss it, to draw conclusions, but it is obviously too much of a concern for people, but I see that there is obviously a great threat and that sustainable development has no alternative, as well as this renewable energy source, simply so. However, the fact is also here, my colleague Boris mentioned in his speech that Zmajlović was then guilty, that he was part of it, but Mr Vrdoljak was then on the subject, then the Ministry of Economy and Mr. Vrdoljak was purely as a correction of your coalition partner now, and then a colleague of Mr. Maras Minister. I'd only repeat what's important one more time. When we talk about energy efficiency, it's not just energy efficiency solving problems, it's important, so facades, roofs, it's important. I'm curious, I asked the question, and I'm going to say it, not even through parody, even in Sinj it was a masquerade, the carnival was, this burning bus, last night was on a payday. Therefore, I am interested in what this brings for, in terms of energy efficiency, is not only this law itself a solution. If we have buses that are 30-40 years old. Who carry children not only are the drawers at risk and what's worse, but we have a problem with what smokes, oil, it's old technology. So we can't solve the problem partially, talk about sustainable development, the prime minister boasts that everything is going on about climate change, and in reality, the reality of where I come from is quite different. Just to see what those buses look like from Prometo Sinj i.e. The transfer of Makarska. So that's what we're talking about here in the lights in HS and what's in reality and nobody's doing anything, so nobody's doing anything. If this law brings something good, we will see these effects, but it is a fact that both the Energy Efficiency Fund and this sustainable development in 2015. Instead of 50 million kunas spent 600 and some million kunas exclusively for facades and it welcomed then Minister Slaven Dobrovic, after which I remember it was one of the bigger problems, it was one huge problem. So, it's not just a spectrum of any, I'm interested in you answering what that means for traffic is traffic is very important, mainly urban traffic where there's traffic, where these particles are in the air, CO2 and when I said that, I mentioned the thermopower plant on the river, on Cetina i.e. on Lake Peru, when I mentioned it did not mention it in context, it is inefficient spending, we mean gas we lead, construction of the pipeline to the river, we have the sun, Croatia the Republic has only, RH 0.35% of the solar energy has energy, only 0.35 from the sun, and Europe 5% on average. So, we here more, more Maribor, a city in Slovenia than the whole Republic of Croatia is producing energy from the sun. So, it's all connected, we can't secretaries of sustainable development mention and separate renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, it's one set connected by me, we can't segment by segment vacit. So, I'm interested in this law, this law, which, exactly, is going to solve the problem of traffic? Are we going to have incentives? Are we going to get solar funds for the solar chargers? I can be a solar charger for vehicles, I can be or I don't know, mini wind power plants, mini wind power plants will be somewhere along the way or there'll be only big multinational wind power plants like in Knin, when you go to Knin of Sinj, so when you see these wind power kits go to foreigners in the pocket, not our farmers that they're this, that they're mini, mini power plants, but our farmers can't get a mini this wind power plant. And I'm curious as to why only in the interest of great and foreign interests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187290	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I am concluding the debate, thanking Secretary of State Ivo Milatić and his associates for the reasons of the final bill, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187291	Final proposal of the Act amending the Completion of the Energy Efficiency Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 848. Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club, Liberal Democrats, and I would like now to ask the respected Secretary of State Ivo Milatić to show up on the amendment of the HNS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, the government accepts the amendment of the HNS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187293	He then becomes an integral part of the bill. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 81 for, 13 abstentions and 16 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187294	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a decision to resolve Drazen Jelenić's duties as chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Law on State's Attorney's Office. The hearing was conducted by the committee responsible for the judiciary. I would like to ask the representative of Mr Drazen Bošnjakovic, the Honorable Minister of Justice to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for this resolution, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs, before you is the motion for a decision on the resolution of Drazen Jelenić from the post of Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. On February 19th, so Drazen Jelenić submitted a request to get rid of it from that function. On 20 February, the government set up a motion for a resolution decision and referred it to a parliamentary procedure, today the proposal for a decision was on the Committee on Justice and is at a plenary session. Therefore, the procedure is as follows, the HS is the decision-making body, after the resolution decision is taken, on the state's lawyer's board a declarative decision establishing that it has suspended its mandate. Afterwards, the State Attorney's Council announces, announces a public call for candidates, after the candidates are reported, to the Government, the Government sets out its proposal that goes further in the same procedure, HS, the Justice Committee and the plenary session. The reasons I don't think there's a need to explain again, they're famous in public and the state's attorney has explained himself why he's asking to be resolved on his own request, there's been a lot of talk about it, it's been a phase of actually finding membership in an organization that's actually become an obstacle in a very specific case and after that, after all these things that have happened he resigned and today we're here before you, we suggest that this decision be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187296	Thank you very much. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187297	Thank you very much. Minister, why did you propose this man, which is why you can state the reasons? Are the same reasons you're solving him now? Is the system functioning, Minister? Are you bringing anything new? I know you've all been praising him since Mr. coat of arms towards HDZ, you've all praised him. What now? What happened? What's the problem? Does the Croatian state work? Does the judiciary work? Well, people don't trust the state or the institutions anymore. So are you going to compete with something new to solve? In the end, HS will vote out of this again. And all those who voted, then and coalition partners who were with HDZ and now who would vote for the new one, so is there any instrument to verify the attorney general that he doesn't work for any lodges and some free builders?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187298	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187299	Your Honor, I'm asking you to tell us the reasons why you're giving up State's Attorney Jelenic. So you came here to explain it, you said you wouldn't explain it, I'm calling you here, I'm asking you as an agent in HS from the minister to explain the reasons. Here it is, the stage is your pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187300	Thank you. Answer, Your Honors Minister Bosnjakovic, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187301	Your Honor, the attorney general has asked that he be resolved on his own request, and I have further said in a few sentences what this is about, and he himself has made it public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187302	I thank the Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187303	Dear Minister, this statement of yours is quite alarming, so Drazen Jelenic did not ask to be resolved, you would consider it appropriate for him to remain in office as chief state attorney even though he has denied certain information or you may have been familiar with that information. I announced yesterday that it would be good, I will personally propose such a law as in the Western states to go and prison punishment for the untruths which have been given to the working bodies of HS or if some persons hide certain information. The chief state attorney hid it from his superiors until he became chief state attorney information that he became a member of a masseuse organization, now the question is whether or not he hid that information from you or you were obviously familiar with them because I see it is no problem for you, besides Minister Coric said he does not see What is the problem with the fact that Drazen Jelenic [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] a member of a mass organization. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187304	...a fellow Grmo. The Minister of Honor's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187305	Your Honor, you know about my statements where the first thing I said was that I expected to resign, if the resignations were not that the government would raise the issue of resolution, as the resignation came, there was no need for the government to enter this process, the process was based on that resignation. And we also said that we had no knowledge of that fact that he was a member of that organization, as we really didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187306	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187307	Thank you. Dear Ministers, this is how a public statement appeared in which the state's attorney said the following, that membership in the legal union in no way affected the conduct of my duty. However, this meal to such an extent burdened the further conduct of the duty of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia that it had practically become impossible. In the Law on State Attorney's Office in Art. 28. It clearly states in which cases the state's attorney general will be resolved. I can't find that point unless it says, "if it does, it does damage the reputation of the state's attorney's office or the state's attorney's office." Did he, in your opinion, harm the reputation of the state's attorney and the state's attorney's office? And why in that case did you invite him to resign? Why didn't you just say let's go, let's get the state's attorney-in-chief resolved, so we'd be clear what kind of government has an attitude, this way we don't get it? I have a feeling you've blackmailed the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187308	Thank you. The Minister of Honor's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187309	That article says that it is being resolved, one of the points is on its own request, which is said here in a particular case, and we have indeed said in all public appearances that we are not acceptable to membership in organisations, where we do not know who the members are, where we do not know as soon as those organisations are engaged, where we do not know whether tomorrow some judicial official will come into some obligation to return something. That's what we said very, very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187310	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damjan Vucelic, come in. He's gone. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187311	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the Republic of Croatia is rich in natural beauty and clean environments, and it is also abundant in many places where there have been no irresponsibility of environmental threats and, in fact, the destruction of a perspective for sustainable and healthy development and co-existence, therefore in this area. Please, definitely so far, we can be dissatisfied with the number of crimes that have been identified as such by the state's attorney's office, can we now consider that the new site, the new state's attorney, is about to make a turning point, and many of the crimes that apparently exist in this matter, therefore serious crimes against the environment, will be prosecuted. I'm just going to give you examples, we've got a number of recoverys, say, the Zrmanja obrovec, we've got the Soviet cave, we've got, in the end, and new centres that have proved harmful to the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187312	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187313	I'd like to know if there is, for example, any concrete moves on your part where you filed criminal charges for the initiation and knowledge of a crime in the area where you did it. I, as a minister, do not act in specific cases, but if there is anything I can ask for information, I can ask to see if that is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187314	Thank you. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187315	Thank you. Dear Minister, I don't think this should be taken into consideration by any means by the world's light debates, because as we know, every worldview has its own foothold in trust or in faith in an invisible being, and based on that invisible being, cult activities are being organized. At the same level, for the state, the majority, when it comes to some religion, such as Christianity in Croatia or when it comes to legal cult actions that the state has approved, and it is about masseony. If the attorney general made his act and broke the laws, then I expect him to be prosecuted. Not because of our mundane debates, but if he actually failed to do what he should do as a state lawyer because he was doing it as a Mason, then we still have someone who broke the law, and we didn't prosecute him, so we exiled someone for massaging, to finally protect him as a masseuse in the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187316	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187317	Thank you very much. I can answer this question of yours in a way that exists within the system of mechanisms if there is a breach, therefore, of the law, if there are serious violations in the conduct of a state's attorney's office, how to sanction and how to react. As far as this particular case is concerned, we have no evidence that he's been working illegally anywhere, that he's committed some kind of illegality, like you and I know from the media that it's come to, in fact, a loss of trust regarding an object where members of the organization he belonged to have been found on different sides, and we can't, no one can behave in which the public doesn't trust. There was a loss of trust here, he resigned himself, and as I said, if he hadn't done it, the government would have initiated the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187318	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187319	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm interested in one question: whether you and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia feel any responsibility in these situations when they happen, if you have such a dramatic attitude that a man must leave, that he may not have been appointed to that place, but since you have stood firm behind him, that Prime Minister Plenkovic stood firm behind him, that he is his personal choice because I would have left him in that place, that I was in the position of former state attorney Cvitan who was doing his job excellently, you have replaced Cvitana and you have asked Jelenić, stood behind him and your choice is personal. I wonder, do you feel any responsibility when something like this happens and how that responsibility manifests itself, whether it's just your expression of regret or manifesting itself and some more concrete actions, what could the Prime Minister offer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187320	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187321	First of all, let me get this straight. Nobody replaced Dinko Cwitana. Dinko Cvitan was given a mandate and the government then proposed Drazen Jelenic under its authority. Drazen Jelenić did not really declare the fact that we know today, if we knew it then, we would have seen how we would react. As for his résumé and his entire work, until this moment, I think he has very decent and good references.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187322	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187323	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, it is unacceptable for me to say, in your opening statement, that we propose a resolution of the state's attorney general for the reasons of the media's public knowledge and then, through these replicas, we essentially extract your position from you on the hood. If you say at some point, it's a membership in an organization that compromised his work at that place as a state attorney, and then you say, he went on his own request, so I don't have anything to add, so if he hadn't gone, they would have replaced him. Look, you just said that for the government it's an unacceptable membership in an organization that you don't know who the members are, who's inside, that's practically secret. How many such organizations do we have in Croatia? Do you in Government know if we have, I don't know, one, two, three, five or ten mass secret organizations in Croatia? On the other hand, it's about the Citizens' Association, is it a legal association of citizens, is it registered? Look, I'm a member of the New Vinodolski Voluntary Fire Department. Do you know who the members are there? Do you know how many, who, who the people there are members of that society? So does this organization. So, how do you act like a government and do you even know how many of these associations are [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Who are the members of the... [[Intruder Reiner: The Answer of Respected...]] or it's not legal. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187325	Let's be just as specific as that, so there's no misunderstanding. We've proposed his resolution on his own request. What we've said to our views, I won't repeat them again. Indeed, being the attorney general means to be independent, to be independent, and to eliminate all possible and potential risks such things. The risks we'll never take, there are no mechanisms that we can all put them all together, shut them down and make it impossible. The question is membership, this DVD thing of yours is really incomparable to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187326	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Like you said, we have a situation that we have. What we need to do now is try to ensure that such a situation does not happen in the future. Many times in the public today on the parliamentary committee, I have proposed to approach the urgent amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and to install in these amendments a security verification obligation for the candidate for the main state attorney. Now I ask you a very simple question. Do you support such an initiative and will we ensure that during the election of the new chief state attorney, security checks are carried out to avoid such unfortunate situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187328	Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187329	As I replied to your committee today, we will discuss your initiative, we will analyze and after we have conducted this procedure we will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187330	And the last replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187331	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers are amazingly easy to deny the state's attorney Jelinić where you point out that your most controversial is his and unacceptable failure of data. I ask you why you are hiding information from the Croatian public from the 5th evaluation round of GRECO which specifically speaks about preventing corruption in the executive government and conflicts of interest. I heard off the record the reason it hasn't been translated yet. So this document was adopted in December 2019, the 4th evaluation round is here in front of everyone, there are 6 A4 pages, so you are unable to translate 6 A4 pages two months. Please give it to the SDP, we will translate it tonight and give it to the Croatian public. What are you hiding? Are you hiding that the GRCO called you because of the obstruction of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest? That's the problem. Mr. Jelinic has passed the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187332	The answer of the Honorable Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187333	Well, we have nothing to hide. In many things we have gone really far in the fight against corruption. When you look at it, we have passed the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity where we are one of the few countries that has this and that our legislation is ahead of the EU legislation. So we have nothing to hide. And this will be when the terms are met, it will be, it will be announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187334	Thank you very much. He raised his hand, probably for a break, a respected representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187335	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club so we can consult on everything we could hear here from the minister, but also from fellow MPs. It is well known that Drazen Jelinic was proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia in a secret process from which he came out as the only candidate after a closed session of the government. Also in the Croatian Parliament, Draž Jelinić was supported not only by the ruling majority then but also by parts of opposition representatives, i.e. counterparts Peđa Grbin, Orsat Milenic and counterpart Alexic. I'm asking the question. Why, then, did colleagues Grbin and today's head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic, Orsat Milenic, in agreement with their club support Drazen Jelinic? What's behind that support? I ask the Vice-President of the Assembly to ask the President of the Assembly to send a letter to all MPs to declare whether they are members of certain secret or mass organizations. I also ask Drazen Bosnjakovic, the minister of justice that the government of the Republic of Croatia declares whether there are in the government not only ministers, but also members of the government, State Secretary, Assistant Ministers, whether they are members of certain mass or secret organizations. And I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce one provision in the selection process for the main state attorney that if certain information is hidden before the parliamentary committee, that person is liable for it. So, if it's false or if it means certain things, it doesn't fit. Here, we'll consult at the club, and I invite you and the minister to read about this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187336	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break, so I'll see you at 4:00 and 16 minutes. It's 1606 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,15 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak on behalf of the Honorable Representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187338	I'm a member of the Catholic Church, full-fledged and this is my exposure and every exposure and every political engagement I make, I work from that position. And I'm going to say right away at the beginning that I was wrong not to bring it into the property card, and I'm going to bring it in. To become a full member of the Catholic Church with the crisis. So I'm speaking from that position and I'm not hiding it and let it be known. Minister, we haven't actually heard from you here the answer to the question for which you came to the Croatian Parliament, which is why you are the reason for the replacement of the state's attorney Jelenić, which is why you came here, and you have not said anything. And I call you once again, I call you a moment ago, I call you again, to speak loudly and clearly for what reasons. When we were together on the show the other day, I asked you explicitly if you were in favour of members of secret associations acting high duties, you said it out of your heart, like that in a hurry, so I'm not into it, it shouldn't happen, but then you're a little bit... You fixed your attitude so you started to say something vague, actually, I don't know if you did or didn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I want to know, the Croatian public must know why the state's attorney Jelenic is leaving this place. And which is why the government of the Republic of Croatia is the government you represent, which is why Andrej Plenkovic, who you represent here, is for the replacement of a state attorney, who, two years ago, has unanimously appointed as a state, unanimous, single majority, the style of SDP and HDZ. So that's what's very, very important. There's a moment here that's very interesting, I didn't mention it in the replicas before, I'm going to mention it now, and the strangeness is coincidence. The state's attorney only a month before his appointment became a member of the masseuse. Is that a coincidence? Well, of course not, and you know it, and that's where the problem lies. Because everyone knows, absolutely everyone knows that the masseuse, the masseuse is working and there is only thanks to the personal interests of the individuals who associate there. It's not philatellists, it's not GSS, it's not badge collectors, it's people who are secretly gathering to help each other. And now I'm from this place, but a little bit, listen to the importance of this message. I am asking, the Croatian public is asking that we know if there are more in the government of the Republic of Croatia among your fellow ministers and you personally, perhaps our Prime Minister, are there other members of the masseuse? I think we need to know that. On the other hand, I'm also asking the Secret Service to finally start doing their job. If this gentleman has been removed, and it's obvious because he's a member of one of the contemplative organizations, let's see in those photos that came out in some of the messages, which are still people out there. Let's have some informed conversations. Let's find out what kind of people are members of the masseuse, and why is there nothing to do about it? I'll say for what reason because it's the only possible reason. Because it would likely reveal that many of our colleagues are also in the Parliament, probably many in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, many chosen by Andrej Plenkovic are members of that organisation. I will repeat, so with one great legitimacy that I have as a representative at HS, Croatian clarity requires that the membership of these organisations be known and therefore the secret service, which is why the government of the Republic of Croatia does nothing about it. Simply, I think it is, if it is a problem, or, if it is not a problem, if this association is legal and legitimate, then why is Drazen Jelenić leaving? Then we need to protect him. But I will say, from my position as a member of the Catholic Church, or a member of the Catholic Church, that I have a deep suspicion because my Catholic Church has pointed hundreds of times to the problem of masserium. Loud and clear, no twisting. No twisting. And all those who are viewed as members of the Catholic Church in some way, let them understand a little bit the weight of it and let those according to this organization, the Masonic organization, act according to what they are formally, if they are members of the Catholic Church. So the question is, is this association a secret or isn't it a secret? Is she legal, not legal? If it's not legal, it's illegal. Then let's ban it at last. If in Croatia there is an association of working associations, anti-integrity divers, stability, sovereignty, sovereignty of our country, so we have to deal with it. Is that logical? I mean, this is one logical sequence. I'll do it one more time to explain. If there is any doubt that this organization is doing something against the integrity, sovereignty, stability of our state of Croatia, I doubt it, let it be investigated. If society is secret, which is why it's secret. Let's have some fun with this. Let's take a little time, though I'll tell you right here what's going to happen. Andrej Plenkovic set this man up, he was his choice, he didn't come by accident, he fell with no, he knew Andrej Plenkovic who he was setting up, believe me, he knew. Also, Andrej Plenkovic will not take a single step to resolve this matter, not one step, will do anything. What's the reason? Here I am going to say my suspicions which are justified because many officials are involved in the same organization, complicated. And what effect this organization has on our country of Croatia is one big question. He'd still point to a little thing that's not very small, and that might be one particular reason why this man's been removed, that his brother, as they say in that organization, Mr. Gabric is coming into the office, with his foot opening the door with a listening device and recording in the state's attorney's office talking to the state's attorney, so we're really a banana republic, we're really a banana republic. Is that anywhere in the world? In some normal civilized state, if this isn't 1918, this is 2020. And that some of the simplest safety standards are not taken care of, that anyone entering an office with a state attorney can't have listening devices, that he can't have a phone in his pocket and that he can't record a conversation with a state attorney. And it's happening to us, and it's normal, it's the most normal situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187339	The HDZ list has been selected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187340	I'll tell you one short word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187341	My colleague, please don't throw it out of the bench, and don't you communicate with your colleague, Stazić, you speak yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187342	...which is a mouthful, so you'll try your colleague, Stazic. E coworker Stazic, interesting character...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187343	You chose HDZ on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187344	...interesting character...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187345	Comrade Stazic, please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187346	...interesting gentleman, very interesting. But I heard my colleague Stazic won't even put you on the next, next, next list for HS. And, Mickey, where are you now? He's a scary guy. He's a scary guy. I think it's a wonderful experience when you wake up in the morning and look in the mirror, a very nice experience, a very nice experience, my friend. So, as far as the list is concerned, it's a list of the future SDP coalition partner, so HDZ will co-ordinate with the SDP, it's already so clear, but it's none of your business, because you'll be in the political past, because Mr Bernardic won't put you on the list, and that's that. But I'd be back on the subject a little bit. Dear Minister, please come here, I ask you and tell us the specific reasons why Mr. Jelenić has been removed, for specific reasons, I ask you to do so. And if there is doubt, and I express it, and there is a reasonable doubt that this organization is working against our country of Croatia, let that organisation be examined, let the members be examined, and let us see if any of your colleagues who are members of that organisation, that is what we need, that is what we need for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187347	A colleague's coat of arms has raised an injury to the Businessman, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187348	A respected colleague, Mr. President, was injured by his colleague Zekanovic. 238. He was directly insulting Mr. Stazic. You are in charge of maintaining order in the assembly as chairman, not Mr. Zekanovic as speaker. The attacks on the bench don't allow a single representative to insult the name and last name of anyone in this assembly or anyone who threw it to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187349	I agree with you, first of all, it's inappropriate to throw out of the bench, secondly, I told my colleague Zekanovic to keep talking, and let's not let this one respond to the throwouts, I don't think he's hurt by the Rules of Procedure, but let's stay away from that, let's stay away from that sort of thing. Now, before anyone lifts up and asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you go into abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injury, I'm still out of tolerance, zero tolerance for abuse of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Zekanovic, do you insist?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187350	I'm just asking if I could give the Rules of Procedure a moment ago to a colleague of the Stazics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187351	You can't, of course you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187352	I can't, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187353	We could, we could know this Rules of Procedure. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Lovrinović should speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, pardon, the SDP, will speak to the esteemed representative, Pedja Grbin. I've looked under your name already.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister said in his opening statement that we all know why we're here today and that there's no need to repeat it. However, I think it is necessary to talk about this because, regardless of what we have read in the media, not only have most of us read it and commented on the situation, the body that decides on the appointment and resolution of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is HS. And when the government of the Republic of Croatia sends its representative to HS to talk about the need to resolve the main state attorney, then the minimum is a minimum, then the minimum minimum that we expect the government's representative of the Republic of Croatia to say that the main state attorney has submitted a motion for a resolution not to be removed. And it is also minimum to explain clearly and unequivocally after that by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia why membership in a specific organisation for a specific person in a specific place is controversial. I believe that each of us has a reason to support this decision. In particular, in the SDP, we believe that there are certain organisations and associations which, by their actions, deviate from the view of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as each independent state official should have. And in this context, we believe that Mr. Jelenic's membership in an organization that I do not purposely want to name because I do not want this to turn into a debate about her because it should not happen here, it is controversial. Al has other organizations, there are other organisations, memberships in which, for a chief state attorney or a similar judicial official, it would be controversial for me. Opus dei is, for example, one of them. But that's something we need to talk about. What we need to talk about today is, above all, how to prevent the situation that we've had with the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia from happening again. Yes, it is no secret that I opposed the SDP's position of Mr. Grmoy, opposed to the SDP's position of SDP, supported Mr. Jelenic as chief state attorney, and I am not sorry about that because, at the time, on the basis of his resume, I thought it was a serious professional who would guarantee the independence he needed to fight crime seriously in the Republic of Croatia. However, it turned out that Mr. Jelenic was not that person. If there is a person before us who I believe can fight organized crime and corruption, who is willing to face what is the greatest monster for the Republic of Croatia, far greater than the crown of the virus, I will support that person even though I doubt that HDZ is able to suggest such a person. So to ensure that this situation as we have today, which is the debate, the debate on the resolution of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia does not repeat itself, not so soon, but never again, I will propose certain amendments to the law that should ensure it. The first is which I have already spoken, or already mentioned in the replica, the one relating to security checks. During the debate on the State's Attorney's Law, we pointed to one flaw in the system, which is that the attorney general does not check the security when entering that post. And that's the only way you can get into the state's attorney's system, parallel to the other part of the judiciary, so you can get into the seat of the Supreme Court president, and then you don't get security checks, and then you stay in the system either as a Supreme Court judge, either as a deputy chief state attorney, and you haven't passed a security check that every deputy municipal state attorney from Dubrovnik to Pula has to pass. But the attorney general doesn't have to. And it's a serious, serious failure in the system. We propose, Mr. Minister, that we have time, that you propose such an amendment to the law, we will surely support it. There are other problems, for example, progress, in the system and the judiciary, so both the judicial and the state's attorney system, and in one security check we work at the beginning and you can do 20 years. to be in the system, after which you progress, you will not be checked. And what happens in 20 years? Did it happen? Well, there could have been a lot of things going on. In 90% of cases or more, 99% of the cases will not happen, it will be individuals who conduct their duties with honor, but because of one percentage that has strayed, and because of them, we must ensure that security checks are carried out both in the state's attorney's office and in the judiciary, both for the deputy state's attorneys and judges of Croatian courts. Another problem is what I was only talking about at the beginning, at the very beginning, which is membership in a particular organisation which, as Mr. Minister says and is not wrong, hides both his finances and his membership and his way of working. It is relatively easy to conclude that it is incompatible with the position of attorney general. However, the fact is that we do not have the criteria in the law to say what kind of organisations that are not compatible with such an important duty, and then we will come into the situation that, now I am looking at Mr Batinić, so I will use him as an example, my colleague Batinic thinks that organization A should be the one who is compatible with the duty of the attorney general, and I will say not the organization A but is the organization of B. Therefore, the respected Mr. Minister, apart from security checks, we need very clear criteria that will be led and candidates for these functions in order to know whether they meet the conditions or not, whether they can behave this duty at all, but also those who appoint them, the State Attorney's Council, the DSV and for these two most important functions in the judiciary, the Supreme Court and the Chief State Attorney-General of HS. We need these criteria, these criteria are almost equally necessary, some will say, perhaps even more necessary than those relating to security checks. And then, of course, regulation far beyond what we have now, and even in the law concerning us state officials, and also in the case of judicial officials, which things that are not property in nature, but certainly indicate that a person in some case might be in conflict of interest, should be entered into the property card or we should call it whatever we want, publicly announced and thus act preventively in preventing conflicts of interest as a lobby of corruption. And now let me say something about conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is the front door for corruption. No corruption, no corruption of public, judicial or any other officials or officials without them going through any conflict of interest and looking for something for themselves instead of for the public. However, the current ruling majority is ignoring it. Dear counterpart Zeljko Jokanovic, Jovanovic, pointed out to you the problem of the GRECO report, but we have another problem, much bigger than that, which was slightly mixed under the carpet, which is that by institutional blockade directed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has been prevented, prevented from acting in an extremely important case involving himself the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Today, the commission received a decision from the High Administrative Court which confirmed what the SDP Representatives Club has been claiming all this time, which is that the court is not in charge of decision-making in the present state. Dear colleagues and colleagues, primarily from the ruling majority, we have proposed from Club SDP 3 different ways to resolve this proposal. The first is to determine the responsibility of the ministry, the second is to address the Constitutional Court, the third is to amend the law and clearly define who is responsible for deciding on the exemption of the president and the members of the committee. You haven't accepted a single proposal. And why is that? Well, because you don't want the commission to work. Because you don't want the Republic of Croatia to fight corruption. And when I was talking about what kind of person I should be taking tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or the day after that, I put the fight against corruption in the first place because it's corruption, and so are the citizens of the Republic, the biggest problem that our society is struggling with today, I'm not going to say because I'm not sure that we're successfully dealing with this problem, but fighting, maybe not ruling, but all those citizens who are damaged by the fact that someone before them has come to order because they've had a connection, a familiarity or something else, who built 2 or 3 floors more in their neighborhood and sheltered them from the sun because they gave 10 or 20.000.000.00 Euros to issue a building permit, these are all the situations that the citizens of the Republic struggled with every day, and we're not able to deal with as a society. That is why I ask that the person who will be proposed for the new chief state attorney or attorney of the Republic of Croatia first of all be the person who has proved herself in her previous work in the fight against corruption and organised crime, not in words but in deeds, and who has such persons, and one of those who has run for office and whose name is spinning in the media, Mr. Turudic is definitely not such a person, and please do not even try that. But it's not the only thing I expect from the attorney general. I expect the attorney general to face another serious problem we have in the Republic of Croatia, which is speech and public hate. Speech and public expression of hate are a serious problem that is not only faced by the Republic of Croatia, speech and public expression of hate we have in both the United States and France and Germany and Italy, but these countries are mostly with it as much as they are carrying, the Republic of Croatia does not. The statistics you and the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozinović were showing us that there are few hate crimes in the Republic of Croatia, little hate speech, little hate expressions, the fruit of only one fact, which is that the competent police and the state's attorney simply do not recognise hate speech, they are unable to qualify it as such and then adequately prosecute it. That's why I expect the new chief state attorney or attorney to be the person who knows how to do it. These two criteria, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the fight against crime and hate, are what must lead us to choose a top state attorney or attorney. If you are able to suggest such a person, Mr. Minister and most of the HDZ, and I'm afraid you're not, I'll be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187355	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187356	Thank you, dear Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the motion for a decision on the discharge of Mr. Drazen Jelenić as chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, which is here in HS, was directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 20 February 2020. The Minister himself warned us of certain items and articles of the law itself regarding the procedure itself and this resolution, but also tomorrow the appointment of a new chief state attorney, meaning the Law on State's Attorneyship, the provision of the article. 28th century 1st and point. 1. The main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia will be resolved on his own request, as we know, by the provisions of Article 2 and Article 3 of the Law itself, the proposal for the resolution of the main state attorney is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to HS, the same decision needs to be passed by the Committee of Justice which we had here this morning, and we unanimously decided to accept this motion for a resolution and all, the whole explanation given by the Government regarding that resolution. On 20 April 2018, the main attorney general himself resigned, meaning almost full 2.g. Before he resigned and, as we know, here we have opened the debate here through the very replicas of the minister, but here we have through discussions on behalf of the clubs, for which reason he resigned and why the government has just accepted and sent the current decision to resolve, which is precisely the belonging of Mr. Jelenić to one of the secret organizations, the secret mass association. Before that, when we see an argument from 2018 when we appoint a new chief state attorney, we see that a lot of MPs there and gave some commendation and any consent, either from the opposition, whether from the ruling dishes as we know it, here as well as the minister warned us about Mr Jelenić at the time had an impressive resume and all his life, working in the state's attorney's office himself, from the status and the trainee himself, here to the main state attorney + his international work and other excellent professional qualifications, so there were no special warnings or problems about the appointment itself, but here's how the public learned about Mr. Jelenić's belonging to a particular mass line and a secret association in which we don't know any members, no way of funding, nor what exactly that association deals with, they acquired certain conditions in the public, but normally and in the justice circles themselves, but also in the whole of justice system of law, that the state's attorney is required by the general government. With regard to the very procedure of appointing a new state attorney, after the resolution of this decision on resolution is resolved and the formal term of office of the current state attorney, the State Attorney's Council has 30 days to make a public call to candidates who meet the conditions. The public call itself will last from 15 to 30 days after which the State Attorney's Council will send it to the Government, after having discussed it, will send it to the HS's home Board of Justice, and it will again come here to the plenary session where we can discuss all the items that we expect from the new state attorney, and I think that here is the change from 2018 to the last state lawyer, and this very novelty of the public call and this very procedure that the state's attorney council must go through when making certain decisions that will come tomorrow to HS and when choosing a new state attorney, so I believe that the public will also call, but also certain judicial circles, and the normal government will see who is all the candidate and will start a much earlier debate than it does in the HS itself. As for certain clubs, here I am before me who have spoken, we have opened topics and security checks, but also memberships in certain associations, here and I personally think normally that this high and important function and duty within the justice and judicial bodies themselves, such as the chief attorney, is not important for the public's attention but also for the government and the normal and parliamentary representatives themselves, but also for all other public bodies, and it is important that we know not only the résumé of such a person and whether it meets certain conditions for him to be a candidate for the general state's attorney at all but tomorrow when it becomes very important to pass certain checks and to see in which all the points of interest and possible conflict of interest in which he can be found. As far as membership itself is concerned, I believe that we are all members of different associations here, I believe that these associations are not a secret and that they know who are members and what they are dealing with and what their guidelines are in the statutes themselves, but normally every association can have a potential conflict of interest hidden and normal socializing in certain circles of people can also project certain possible doubts tomorrow in conflict of interest. But when we look here and this particular case ahead of us, which is a membership precisely in one secret association, and I believe that we have no problems or doubts that this large and high role and duty within a particular judicial body must not be a member of a particular association, only that we cannot then link the chain ourselves possible that can lead to any connection or conflict of interest or problem itself that can cause a particular official in its action itself. As far as security checks are concerned, the minister himself told us that the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General in the law don't have that item and the need to verify, to carry out the very security check, I believe that with quick and short changes to the law tomorrow we can introduce it, I don't think it's a bad thing, and it would be good. I do not see it exclusively from the very segment of the public, that the public has great insight into the very business of a certain, certain judicial employee, but it is important that certain public authorities and security services, the police and other judicial and repressive apparatus have insight into everything, not only of the property, but in all the items that are needed to in some way to control a certain official in the performance of their duties, I repeat, in particular, when it comes to such a high judicial official. In considering this proposal for a decision to resolve itself, the HDZ club will support the adoption of such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187357	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists, time will be shared by respected representatives of Grmoja and Bulj, the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187358	Thank you, Vice President. So here's the attorney general leaving, and what message remains after his half-term? The fact remains that this country and this society are trying to fight corruption, and neither the main state attorney who should be the leader of this fight understands that his duty is incompatible with any other engagements, any secret or semi-secret societies, any suspicious actions, people, etc. The very fact that a person who claims to be such a function is not aware that the prerequisite of any fight against corruption is its unquestioned integrity, life and moral principles without any stain or doubt. The awareness of what is illegal in this country is completely disturbed by decades of affairs, corruption, clientism, and many unacceptable things are perceived as normal and common. How can we expect the new state attorney to be the candidate with the highest honor of running for office, and not all sorts of lodges, because we do not forget the many officials suffer or fall for it, Drazen Jelenic said that it imploded him when he was offered to become a member of a mass organisation, instead of imploding himself to the fact that it is an important part of the main state's attorney's office. Some high-level judicial officials have exposed their cheeks by sitting in bars in football stadiums with indictees for serious crimes and in those same lodges, dead cold drink champagne with witnesses at corruption trials, and some are high-ranking even though sometimes the main man in the football box calls them corruption. The candidacy itself, and especially the choice for the attorney general, will show if we learned anything from this case and can we possibly expect that at least one step has been taken in the fight against corruption. I was already talking this morning and yesterday about the problems in the process of appointing the attorney general, and I warned that this whole process is non-transparent and that it could result in serious mistakes. We have the fact that this procedure, respected ministers, is covered by a veil of secrecy and speculation about candidates, even the Government of the Republic of Croatia, about whom it will propose a debate at a closed session of the government and then we have this hearing before the parliamentary committee where candidates such as you say that the Government of Drazen Jelenic has been denied certain information, may be the main state attorney or candidate to deny information related to his résumé or even to make false. In America, that's what I said at the stop, arranged so that a prison sentence can be prescribed for people who tell the truth in front of parliament's working bodies, for example. Nixon's chief state attorney was sentenced to eight years in prison for false testimony in front of the Senate committee, served 19 months and was expelled from the New York Law Chamber, and the latest case was closed last week by a three-year sentence and four-month prison with a fine of 20,000 dollars and 250 hours of community service to Roger Stone for lying to the US Congress in an affair to investigate Russian interference in the US elections 2015. I call on the Vice-President of the Parliament to arrange for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament, the Anti-Corruption Council, where we have hearings that may be held even false and therefore do not respond, and we have this particular case in the Sablak affair where the Ministry's inspector lied to the parliamentary committee to monitor the anti-corruption strategy, or the Anti-Corruption Council, but we have the fact that the main state attorney has failed that he is a member of a massean organisation. I'm asking here and now, it's an inquiry going to you, and you're going to honor the minister, will you initiate a strict procedure against Drazen Jelenic? So, the old Law on State Attorney's Office, which was in force until September 2018, says that "the state's attorney had previously been obliged to report directly to the senior state attorney on any business he was doing," so he had to become a member of a masseous organisation to inform his superior. And since we are now going to resolve Drazen Jelenić, that we are going to resolve him, I am asking you a question, will you initiate a strict procedure because it is now in your jurisdiction by law? Please answer that, that's what I'm interested in. And I will, if the Vice-President of the Parliament or the President of the Parliament fails to settle this issue of false testimony before the parliamentary committees, direct certain amendments to the Rules of Procedure in this direction, which will provide for certain sanctions and perhaps certain laws to go in that direction. That's what every serious country has, if you falsely testify to a parliamentary committee, you answer to a prison sentence. We already have a case in this assembly in front of the Anti-Corruption Council where we have a false statement here in the case of a state attorney where we have a failure of some important information. Now I'm calling on my fellow Butts to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187359	Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187360	Ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the appointment and voting for the appointment of Drazen Jelenić to the state's attorney then we were here in Assembly eight against and I am one of those who voted against. Not only because I am anti-insistent but I can witness certain actions of the state's attorney's office that have not worked in the interest of the protection of public goods in the interest of people's trust in the judiciary and in the state institutions. So the most I'm offered is the things that the thread solved by Drazen Jelenić we can now go on about his work, not just about the Masonic lodge, these soloist jobs without mystium, that's what they call everything but we're going to start from the most important example of war profit. No state attorney ever did anything to find out what happened to the gun money in '91. which was intended for the defense of the Cetina region which was as a loan went to the Meteor Paper company owned by the Emile Tedeschi family. I've been looking for years, I've been looking for years, I've also filed criminal charges, it's my duty as a man who was young in the Homeland War in rebatins, we haven't had any weapons, and you know that the Sinj and the virtue of the Civilian region is this compound that was first threatened by the Knin part, one of the first endangered in the Homeland War. That money was taken and never returned a million and 400 marks. I'm just asking the state's attorney before Cvitan, Bajic that when I found out when I became a local politician that brought me into those waters, I couldn't believe it when people died that money was being borrowed for money as loans were never returned and now these people have empires. I was just looking for respected ministers to show me the bill that the money Tedeschi got back as a loan in '91. years in Sinj. Never. It wasn't easy to fight, it was birds on the branch knew in Sinj, but nobody should have mentioned it, and that was one of the reasons why I got into local politics, with all the things that were done to the workers of Dalmatia, the workers of Auto Transport, what broke up my Cetinski end, the Trnovac who managed the Sinj field, means one big problem of the state's attorneyship. But that's where the clienteleism was created, pure clientelism related, family, masseous, interesting, secret against the people. Is that the blood money paid by the ministers doesn't deserve this state's attorneyship or the judiciary, the blood was too great. I was like a young man who was at war when I was 18, 19, five years old, and I went through these battlefields, and I watched everything, some people a lot more. I find this behavior embarrassing. No one is innocent, but that someone can take money for a weapon and never tell where that money is and that they are now the richest people in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that he's friends with Milanovic, Vujčić that they're in Peppermint or... do me absolutely not care or Plenkovic to anyone, I'm interested in that bloodbath that's paid by the blood of people in the Cetina region who have a third of the Cetina region occupied. Why doesn't anyone say that money was paid back and to whom? I've been looking for years. That deer didn't do anything. No predecessors, no deputies. There are family ties from local to all tied to this state's attorney's office and they work selectively. ... Yes, masquerade and criminal charges are far more important than the friends of the President of the Republic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I consider the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in terms of war crimes I was at a protest in Vukovar when HDZ, Josip Djakic called on HVIDRA president not to go to protests in Vukovar, it was a cry, it was a cry for the victims of Vukovar against the crimes committed in Vukovar. There he feels like a crime in the air, and those criminals are free. So nothing has been solved in the privatisation of war crimes crime has been solved, so what they're doing essentially. They're much more important to them, and I don't care about their vineyards or they come home, they don't come home, they have blocks, they have bullets, they have only money, I absolutely don't care, but I'm curious about why the state's attorney doesn't do his job. And I think they're both connected and interesting in terms of energy and economy and protecting everyone. So we have a huge problem of people's mistrust in the system for which in the Homeland War together all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have come to freedom, then unique, and today. I come to my Cetinski neighborhood when I talk to the angry or to Sibenik, Zadar County, so when you look at those people, it's chaos, it's sadness. It's not all black, we can pay it back if we have the will, but the fact is that people who are in secret organizations in the Masons or any other secret mystic organizations can get a lot easier to get to the state's attorney's office as the chief builder of Dr. Gabric, who is obviously over-influenced and obviously will not even be easy to mention his name, is too influential. About this he can know more about Vice-President Miljan Brkic, who was his driver, probably he knows that functioning better. I would say here that simply if you have the power to change the law a little bit, you need security checks to the State's Attorney's office at all levels is it impossible that there's this much crime, corruption, mob business unresolved if we have this strength and courage, because they control the system from local businesses to state affairs. Since public procurement, when talking about public procurement, more money has gone to public procurement than anyone knows. I think it's time for us to force that connection into surgery, saber, because the corruption of the Tribba is more likely to come down and crime. What models and what ways, no one has offered me, no one has the courage to me, the one who shows me that the money that Tedeschi borrowed in Sinj was returned to me, I'll tell you every honor and that he returned it. But he's now the dignitary, the left-wing worldview, the liberal, the dignitary. And it's not easy to mention these guys, but if he shows me, which state's attorney is brave to show if he gets his money back, I'll take off his hat and I'll tell him this is a legal state. Money, the blood of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187361	The next club of representatives is the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, let's get back on the subject a little bit, and that's the resolution of the attorney general. I don't know how many of you have read the materials we've received on this subject and on this point. It literally consists of one sentence. So the attorney general says he resigns to his office as chief state attorney. Not at all, not against anyone, not against anything, not at all. So there's absolutely no explanation why the attorney general is resigning. Of course, from the media from what was publicly spoken and written it can be concluded. Although we believe that membership, the fact of membership in the Masonic lies with an organisation that is legal in the Republic of Croatia cannot be a reason to resign. There can't be a reason to resign. Such organizations in Croatia have similar or similar ideas for Rotory, Lions, Brothers of the Croatian Dragons, all of these are based on the example of a Masonic organization that was created de facto in the 18th century as some kind of combination of business organization and education. So the organization is anyway something that can't disqualify someone. What can disqualify it, however, is that, as a member of that organisation, it acts impartially in a procedure against or for, it is de facto totally irrelevant whether it is against or for a member of that same organisation. So, what came to light was that the chief state attorney worked in the case of Nikica Gabric is completely irrelevant whether or not he acted here in a situation where, without further ado, he could exempt himself from the whole procedure and give one of the deputies the task to take over, to take over the case, it was an absolute violation of basic tasks and rules that should be followed by the main state attorney. This is a bias based on interest or involvement in an organisation. And it disqualifies him. Of course it shows unprofessionalness, but it's not the first time that this state's attorney has shown unprofessionalness. We have previously had state lawyers with whom you could agree or not, such as Cvitan or Bajic who kept to themselves and who did not give orders or obey the political branch of the executive government. It is the main task of the judiciary, and through that the State's Attorney's Office. In this case, I would say that there is a reasonable doubt that the state attorney, who is now being denied by the Government, has been brought not for his own expertise but for his obedience to say that, instead of in accordance with the law, he is leading his best convictions individual cases and individual procedures in accordance with the orders and wishes of the executive authority. And it disqualifies him. And we here because people mostly don't know about it even though this organization, especially in Croatia as you can see, is not particularly a secret, on the street has a sign in front of its seat, so you can see on the street where it is, I have to say as to me personally, these rituals seem ridiculous, but they don't seem dangerous unless they're a basis for bias. If they're the basis for bias, as it turns out in this case, it's absolutely inadmissible. Why did the attorney general resign that we're discussing right now? So he resigned because the prime minister in the media said he expects to resign, and if he fails to resign, he will be relieved. Even that would seem acceptable to me if the Prime Minister would explain why he would be replaced, because he proved unprofessional, because he proved biased in this case, but also in many cases earlier, the whole Borg case was mentioned here, so where a decision was made so quickly in some other cases where it has been falling apart for years. So he could explain it, but he didn't argue, and she was thrown out in public that she didn't have public support. Well, many don't have public support, so for a judicial official it can't be, especially a senior official, it can't be a criterion. The more professional it is, the more likely it will be to have a hickey against it. But in this case, against a man who had done his job badly, he acted unprofessionally and proved and shown to the public, unprofessionally, his shift was carried out, not for any of these justified reasons, but for, hoping that it would be generally accepted, because of membership in an organisation that is not illegal. So, I would say that we are faced here in parliament with a very unusual situation, which is that one good decision is proposed, and that is to replace the chief state attorney for a completely wrong reason and with a completely wrong argument. And if that's how we're going to go, we're going to start persecuting people for things that simply aren't and can't be the basis for their disqualification, if we want to live in a free and normal society. Therefore, we will support this decision as the GLAS Club because we agree with the replacement of the attorney general, for the reasons of its bias and non-professionality and we reject this argument completely, i.e. to be precise, lack of any argument, if you look at the documents that we have received as accompanying with the proposal for this decision. So, the absence of any argument, any rational reasoned argument, which, I repeat, there is, which is a poor doing of business, unprofessionalism, and finally, in a statement from the attorney general, that he joined the Masons because it was an organization for the big boys because it impotent him, because of infantility he needs to be replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187363	The next club of representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187364	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. One slightly bizarre situation, especially when you learn from the media certain circumstances that happened at the time, what happened to the state's attorney, with his recording, who he was filming, how, and then there they turned out to be the main culprits for, let's say, the new situation. In fact, I wouldn't want to, and in some way, maybe not, but one part of the public is certainly condemning the Masons, and I wouldn't want the Masons to be guilty or paraphrasing, that we're in the Middle Ages and we're going to drive the witches. I don't think that's the time or place, and that should be the message. The organisation registered by law in the Republic of Croatia where very clearly and the Constitution itself says that association is legal, now. We're going back to one other thing, who could be her member, could be, probably have certain criteria, but can that person behave and perform public functions? That's one dilemma, that's a question. If this organization is a secret, inaccessible public eye, we have the Law on Associations, which very clearly defines the transparency of the work of associations, of financial transparency, of the plans, of the programmes, which these associations are dealing with, of this association, I don't even know, it didn't really give me much interest, we don't know anything. Or if anyone knows, we know very little. And I ask the question, can the person who's a member be, behave in public responsibilities? Now, too, he would not want certain people to be stigmatized if they were members, if they were found out, because the Constitution, of course, guarantees, not only to us who are not members, but to all and certain human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let's not move the hickey without reason. What's going on here is the basic question, what's the matter and what's wrong with the state's attorney? Well, neither the subject nor the attorney's office nor the secret service, nor the subject is something that preys on my attention, personally, nor I'm too interested in such things, but I'm asking myself a question. There's a lot of talk about security checks. Maybe so. Security checks to what level? But I'm also asking myself and you, if the mass organization is such a secret, inaccessible name and last name of members, the way it works, how can secret services determine it? So let's say I can't. How? I just don't think there's any way. Again, I wouldn't want to, and I think that would be more than negative, not just for society as a society but for citizens and individually, so God forbid we turn into a police state. I don't think that's what he wants. But when the DORH Act is looked at, I'll start with one, let's say from one quote that the law speaks of, the state's attorney takes an oath. Maybe we should do it. Perhaps in that oath, if it were to be read, it would add something that would oblige it to the truthfulness of the data, even if he should know it, give it, and so on, that, if at that moment I were to say, I can, I can't behave, for those and those reasons, I think I should start with that. But what's the only law that defines this relationship, what happened now, it's the law on preventing conflicts of interest. So, the behaviour of public function, impartiality, putting the public in front of the private and then when looked at, officials in terms of this law that are covered, and so are we, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and then, there were some initiatives, that we would need security checks for all, then my dear colleagues and colleagues, we would become not only a police state, but a great one, as our Zagorci would say, a solution. The question is the limit we can and can go to, protect ourselves and the citizens against the human rights and freedoms that we have under the Constitution. Looking at and reading the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, I'm surprised, and it could be heard here from the debate, to what level a review of membership in certain associations can go, means that they are not transparent within the meaning of the Association Act. To what level? From where, how far? So let's say from the lowest level, from the local level, so we can get to the Constitutional Court. Is any of you here a member of the masseuse? I know I'm not. But I don't mind communicating with you, with anyone, if it is. So I'm not judging, I'm not judging people based on it, but I'd also have a big dilemma, a big dilemma that someone is in some position, and I don't know whose interests it is, and I don't know what else this gaff is, I mean, I'm going to call it gaff, what happened to the state's attorney, it's kind of naive, of course, I'm saying based on what I could read from the media, to be filmed, to be filmed by a person, even though the basis of the law has the right to communicate, not to record conversations with citizens, with the interested party, but now the question is whether it might be necessary to protect the integrity of the state's attorney primarily what I think is even more important, this is the protection of the institutions. But we don't want to, we don't want a police state in HNS. Where's the measure? I'm saying, to what level, from which to which. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, there were many speeches, why I return to it again, because it would obviously require some corrections in this law, perhaps more detailedly to prescribe some things, and ultimately, it is also a matter of personal integrity, personal honor, responsibility for the conduct of public office. Hypothetically, there could have been a security check for us to prescribe anyone. You don't say that you're a member of that and that. And nothing to anyone. And nothing to anyone. And then this happens to you, you lied. I'm not perhaps for such a rigorous approach as was expressed here from the pay phone, that the sentences of prison, because I still believe in the justice of people, believe in dignity and personal dignity and integrity, that everyone holds to himself the most, which, if you don't respect yourself, you can't respect others either. And you shouldn't be an obstacle if you plead that you are, you're a member, whether it's a member of the birds' group, or in the NK Dinam or the Masons, I'm acting public, and then you come back and that's it. I wouldn't want this debate to turn into some or this case into some kind of persecution of some call people, I wouldn't want it to be a consequence of some unnecessary security check, but I would still appeal to anyone who acted as public functions, who are in a position of potential conflict of interest, to plead and to say very clearly, if they have a possible problem, I will define it and call it. I'm asking one next question to myself and to you, I'm not in the clear. So, there's been a compromise, the state's attorney himself, unfortunately, has compromised himself in this case, by law, he's become a deputy state's attorney. Can he continue to act as deputy state attorney after all this? I'm based on the law, yes. But do you, do you need to go to law change? You compromised the institution, you compromised yourself, and now you're not good as the attorney general, but as a deputy, you're gonna be okay. That's the question, do we have an answer? Minister, do we have an answer and I'd like that to be answered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187365	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Independent Youth Lists, which will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187366	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, State Secretary. Here is today very specific in the Croatian Parliament we are talking about secret societies. Until recently, only Agent Pernar was involved in secret societies. Today, however, the entire Assembly is dealing with this and these are facts. However, many of us are not experts in such organizations. I would recommend a speaker, an expert on these things. His name is Walter White. He's dealing with this problem. There is a series of documentaries on You Tube "Secret behind secret societies" and there is an explanation of the political context, the religious context is explained. But sources and information are being drawn from official literature both such organizations, so encyclopaedia, etc. However, what is important and what should be said is that in the official document that you sent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia here to the Parliament there is not a single detail of the explanation for which reason Mr Jelenic must leave the office of chief state attorney. So there's no explanation at all, and the question is, why is that? So as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you should have sent a document to the Croatian Parliament that clearly explains the reason for the resolution of the attorney general. It's another thing. I will now return to some of your statements which in my opinion were controversial throughout that process and now I will read them. You said this way: “It is unacceptable for a top state attorney to be a member of such a civil society regardless of its registration if its activity is covered by a veil of secrets and poses a potential risk. We talked but I expect the resignation of the attorney general." Second, your statement: "We didn't know it and on that side that's one serious failure in the whole process. If we knew as the prime minister has already said today, the question of the circumstances given would be whether or not it would be." How much I see the date of his appointment is the date of his reception in that association somehow coincide. You didn't know. So that's one big problem, one big system failure. It may not be so controversial that it is a person who is a member of a masseuse, but it is much more controversial that there is a potential possibility that such functions are infiltrated by people who are members of individual criminal structures. So certain criminal structures, and we don't have a system of security checks not only of the state's attorney general, but of the state's attorneys at lower levels. What's the reason we don't have security checks in crime-fighting institutions? So if there should be security checks somewhere, then they should be in crime-fighting institutions. That's my big grudge. But you, Mr. Bosnakovic, are saying we didn't know. And what did you know? Did you know what nearly half of the ministers of this government illegally garnered property through public functions? Did you know how many ministers resigned for those reasons? So it's the same system failure, the failure of the Prime Minister to elect these ministers. And you knew all that. It was known how these people got through life. It was known that these people were coming to their property and that there was a lot of cloudy water. However, this was not a problem for you and this system is not a problem. Even such people in this system see progress. So that's how people get along. The law on security checks and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office do not provide for the obligation to carry out security checks for the Attorney General. And what's going on? It happens that we have an usurped one of the most important institutions. It's the State's Attorney's Office. You also said here in one statement: “We have named Jelenić for impressive résumés and that he is not resolved because of illegal activity.” He added that the Masonic lodge work is based on secrecy, that there is a large risk space. So the problem with this whole story is that selective justice. So, it looks like Jelenić had to leave his post because of membership in the Masonic lodge. But on the other hand, you will not ask whether there are other responsible functions of people who are members of these organizations and arrange it with the system. Here you can see this perfidious policy, there's this story that actually the public is not really informed for which reason Jelenić had to leave the post. And I'm convinced, I'm convinced that the attorney general didn't have to leave office just because he was a masseuse. Because if we know the history of this organization, if we know some context, if we know that these many people are at influential functions in many countries, and not only do these lodges mean you have other organizations, so you've listed here a controversial masseuse and as people who are members of the Masonic Lodges that function under the veil of secrets shouldn't behave as state functions, if this can be concluded by what you've said. But what about other organisations that also have similar modes of action. So it's not, it's not just masseuses, so there are associations of different types of actions that have a similar effect, and you didn't mention it. So, our system is messy, you have no concrete position at all, no official position, and for this reason you have not written at all in an official document for which reason Mr. Jelenić must leave his post. On the other hand, with other interested associations and organizations, it means Rotary Clubs, we have Lions Clubs, and many politicians are members of Rotary and Lions Clubs no one has enrolled it in property cards. Which is informally interesting structures, which is with informal interest structures where people get together but don't formalize it. Is that controversial? So if we don't have security checks then we can speculate and deal with some selective justice, and that's what you're doing and that's the problem. But actually, the main problem is that the DORH has been doing no work for 20 years, as well as a large generator of mistrust in the judiciary. The state's attorney recently filed a report for 2017 and 2018, and in those reports it was said that the DORH was missing experts from the area of financial inspection and now the question of Mr Minister is being asked what you did on this issue. So Mr. State's Attorney said one particular problem in that report. Does the government have a solution for that? So if such an important function means that such an important institution, in such an important institution, lacks financial inspectors, and you have no position from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so what should be added to that. In 2017, the office had in the paper applications against 1,578 known and unknown natural persons, for the criminal offence of abuse of office and jurisdiction received a report against 1,062 persons, against as many as 1,000 persons, the criminal application was rejected. So 94.2% of the persons reported, whose criminal charges are rejected as on tape, and the question arises for which reasons they are rejected as on tape. Citizens no longer believe this story of yours, and citizens want radical reforms, and it is seen by many indicators. Last time I talked about the corruption of white collars, about this corruption that you don't want to face and keep running away from it, and I'm going to read now what white collar corruption is. The white collar has been a term that has been described since the mid - 20th century by each individual, or social group, who is involved in a job that requires more education and professional qualifications or little or no physical work. In a narrow sense, the expression of the crime of the white collar means criminal acts that are specific to persons of that social status, which are in the right parts of financial crime, such as fraud, bribery, embezzlement, counterfeiting, tax evasion, insider trading of securities, etc. The crime of a white collar often differs from other types of crime because it does not usually cause public attention, but neither the police or judicial authorities of the state. The reasons for this are the fact that the perpetrators are usually not only well-sighted but also associated with the leading representatives of the government or top schooled, professionally trained to hide the existence of their crimes for a long time. Another important reason is that white collar crime generally does not contain elements of violence, so neither the public nor the state sees it as a serious threat. Part of economists, sociologists and criminologists believes that white collar crime is far more dangerous for society than other types of crime because it is able to seriously undermine the financial security of the state and the broad layers of the population to do far more harm than individual acts of violence and other ordinary crime. Mr. Bošnjakovic, until the government and institutions are accounted for by the crime of white collars, there will be no progress in this country, and these are facts and I will end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187367	The next Club of Representatives is the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, and time will be shared by respected representatives Varda and Misic. First of all, Honorable Representative Rechimer Varda, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187368	I don't want to say it again. Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few cartoons, if the members of that association hadn't had a fight with each other, you wouldn't know that there is, at least I wouldn't know because I wasn't dealing with the Masons, that there's some secret in their actions because if we were to say that there are secret associations or secret organizations in the state of Croatia, then we're in big trouble. Then we're in a big mess. There are no secrets, at least I don't think there's no secret associations, there's no secret organizations, there's one part of the secret in their home line, and that's what we found out from their fight, that the brother is helping his brother. Otherwise, we put the state in big trouble, so I don't know what we need security services for if we have secret associations in the state. We wouldn't actually be discussing the state's attorney's resolution if we hadn't found out, we wouldn't be talking in this HS, we'd be aware of it because it's his right to do so. 8 and already, that a man may ask for a solution himself. The thing's over, we're getting the message. However, what requires discussion in HS has just taken place here. In fact, when we talk about the state's attorney's office, I'll quote an article. 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which states that the State Attorney's Office is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to bring legal remedies to protect the Constitution or the law. Well, if it's due then indeed the state's attorney has come into conflict of interest, if it's true that a brother is helping his brother there, if that's part of the secret of that association. It is unacceptable, in fact, that any employee, judicial official, state attorney, or judge at any level should be a member of such an association that in its domestic order has exactly this kind of work, its own domestic order, a brother helping his brother because that other brother may be a criminal or may seek another favor. He says, we say you don't know what, what associations do. My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest you read the 2014 Associations Act. and the amendments and additions to the Association Act of last year, which we adopted in October. In accordance with these amendments, the supervision of the work of the associations shall be carried out by authorised officials of the competent administrative authority. These are the competent administrative authorities at the county level. Amendments and additions to the Association Act have put it down to the county. Now let me quote what is an integral part of that surveillance. The supervision of the work of the association shall, in particular, relate to whether the association of status, name, address of the seat, selection of persons authorised to represent and terminate work or use data on changes or whether they comply with the changes before they are entered in the register of associations, if they use the name under which they are entered in the register of associations, whether the meetings of the Assembly are held and if they provide the minutes from regular meetings of the Assembly of the Association, whether they keep the list of members of the association in the manner prescribed by this law? And the way is prescribed so that every member of the association next to the names and last names, addresses, gives his OIB, so that's the difference between political parties. This is the only place the OIB has to give to the association. I went on the Internet a little bit, saw two associations, and they exactly signed that attitude out of the law, with the secretary of these organizations running the register. Now I'm interested, and I know from practice that the competent authorities work formalistly in the most part, get the minutes from the assembly, there's determined who's the representative, who's representing, who's elected to the Supervisory Board or the Court of Honor, look at the status, everything's fine, everything's fine, hang up in the registrator, thing over. I propose that the competent authorities of the administration enter these associations and bring amendments to the Association Act in a way that representatives of the competent authority of the administration are obliged to attend the meetings of these associations, precisely because of the public and transparency, and not only the formalist approach. And to put it short, given that fellow Misic is up to something else to say. Your Honor, I must admit that I agree with all my colleagues and colleagues who have proposed security checks, but security checks for all the judicial officials, at all levels, the state's attorney's office and the court. Secondly, I also refer to the SDP colleagues' proposal to carry out such checks in the progress of judges or state lawyers and to develop clear criteria for, which, which are, in which associations, are compatible with the exercise of public office, public duties, I think it is very important and that it would not put into question associations that are really involved in humanitarian work, culture, history, etc., there are such associations and it would be no good to question the right of citizens to associate with to achieve such objectives. So in any case, we will accept the reason it writes because that is the only reason we can formally legally, which is in the government's proposal, or in the request of a state attorney in accordance with the law that he can personally request a discharge from his duties, without stating the reasons, which is very important. But the debate in the Parliament shows what the Government or the Ministry of Security should do, so in that sense I suggest that you approach the necessary amendments to both the Associations Act and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187369	A respected representative, Ivica Misic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187370	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with an associate. The resignation of a state's attorney is one normal thing, but one question is the responsibility of a state attorney who himself knew that such a thing cannot do and work and be a state's attorney. The responsibility of the state is certainly great, the responsibility of the institutions, the services that check out all the people entering such institutions wondering why we didn't do it. Looking as a normal citizen to me, it's clear to me that we in this country haven't handled the institutions properly, we haven't actually legally ruled it out, we haven't asked these people for responsibility. What is the responsibility of this person who is aware of what he does and does? When we take people to work, we try to find out what kind of employee this is, whether this employee is involved in crime, whether he's dealing drugs, whether he's dealing drugs or not, no businessman is going to take a worker in without checking who that man is and why. It's interesting that in a state of such high institutions that people are not being checked out, especially in the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, it's not to be trusted. How long does it take us to figure out one of the most basic order that should have been long ago? These gaps that are happening in our Croatian state are truly tragic, not to believe how people can trust the state's attorney's office when you report someone for corruption. Then what about the items that didn't get rid of, which they put in drawers, which aren't responsible? Is it possible there are any agreements that people suspect have put objects that have never come out in the light of day? Who are these other people, who will be the state's attorney tomorrow, what kind of man should he be, will a deputy deputy come from these structures again? It is reportedly said that they do not have enough space, that they cannot behave their duties if they do not have enough space, is there not enough, so many Croatian citizens in fact the Croatian state has empty so that they can lay everything down to be okay, but it is for not to believe and it cannot be solved. We're talking about some kind of here lately burning down a doll in Imotski, not talking about a five-pointer, a pitcher and some things that matter, actually, are irrelevant things for the lives of these citizens. I was talking the other day about banishing and taking the land of Bosnian Croats, it was a irrelevant thing here in Bosnia, the truth was important, so it was the emigration of our Croats from Serbia and it's a non-essential thing, here they are now being coerced. This responsibility that should be in the state, which institutions from the top of the state still have to lay down, no one can be unverified, especially if it is doing high duties, and so do we parliamentary representatives. Here you can see for yourself how many problems we've had, even though it should, in my opinion, be about our writing out our situation, that, because our ministers haven't been able to get into all of this, that's what the IRS should be doing, we shouldn't be doing something like that to say some other structures. So we didn't get the basics together in this country, and it's no wonder what happened, what the state's attorney didn't report, and he knew as a lawyer, as the person who signed up to be that. Whoever put it in, he had to say that, I am this masseuse institution that we see happening in the state, that we see how much crime we have, how much drugs we see in the Croatian state, here last night we were told about this drug that 10 times increased and 50. Who does, what does, why does everything go like that in the state, we wonder where we're going, where we work, if we're doing serious or non-serious things? In my opinion as a citizen who's been working my whole life and the citizens watching us, how to gain confidence in all of us sitting here that we can believe that we've set up a man with some honest intentions to do for our citizens what we should and for the state of course. All this somehow leads to everyone so that we here should have confidence, and as we gain confidence, it's the jurisdiction of our administration and the state to simply check people who put them in certain places and it's... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187371	We're going to individual debates, the first one will be a respected representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187372	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Good evening, all of you. I'm very sorry that this topic is already in small hours for us so people won't see what we're really talking about in the evening, we won't be on TV, who's going to see us, they're very rare. But from what I'm going to start, here's only to take one document, says the municipality of the Centre, the name of the management and judiciary centre, organisational number 64, the meeting was attended by 59 members, for a decision voted by 59 members of 59, imagine. The decision to join the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, I will not say the name and name, but the man is a senior official in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the sex M, says this, the nationality of the Croats, the CUP. Now, the argument, in the 8th grade, was president of the class community, in the 1st and 2nd grade of preparatory class, is now a member of the Class Activative of the Third OSSO, is not SS Vafen, actively works in the school list, participated in the political school and proposed for the award, his father has been a member of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia since the 1960s, signed by the secretary and that one. Look at it this way, so everything is important, because one regular member of a party organization and to get the first tie and suit as some of them got, I often mention, you have to fill a lot of things that are very important to every society, which are characteristics. You have to have certain performances, you don't have to be beautiful, blue and tall, but you have to belong to a particular organization, and that's why you have a job to do, and that's why you have a position in society, and all kinds of other Benfis are expecting you. Why do I know all this? Well, because when I get something stuck with my eye, when some HINA reporter who writes there, because we're the burners of some dolls, we should be visited by a coronary virus, and if we don't have a protective mask, then I check out who that girl is, so I come up with very important data, that she's also someone's, from someone and also at the time she's working at HINA right after finishing school, and she's keeping an eye on what she's going to write, against who and who. I can give here press conferences and speak daily, but I won't be transferred today when I spoke to the Justice Committee, which was very important, I haven't been transferred anywhere, if I said don't give God what nonsense I belong to in my party or coalition partner, and that would have come out, but still under the censorship of an editor who would have made it look like Steve from the back bench and show it as a receiver or like this, but Steve came along, so he studied them. What's so important about what I'm gonna say? It's very important that one party there in 2012 said it was abolished, it abolished the security checks. For what? So in order for her members to be caught, she can put them in positions and positions without having to go through any kind of check. The one who was the minister of economy and crafts just left, without any checks, without any preferential characteristics, he did it. Why? So nobody even checked it out, it doesn't matter if it has a degree, it matters if it's the CKK and then it's him, it can be whatever you want in this society. Why do we have the Croatian judiciary like this? Which is why this Jelinic, I don't care that he's a Mason, he said, uh, it doesn't matter that he was a Mason, it's important that he now says that he's not a Mason, and it doesn't matter what he's going to do when he leaves that job again. See, it's very important to me because I'm thinking logically, hello, peasantly, right, fellow Bull? If he was a Chetnik, and now he's no longer a Chetnik, he has no conditions to propagate, but now he's a little good, he can also be mayor of Vukovar, he can be a parliamentary representative, he can be anything in this Croatian society because now he's not what he was, and when he's not there when he's not there, and the conditions are acquired, he'll be a beginner again or I don't know what. So it's the same as with the Masons, he's not, he's not, so he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he' he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he's, he' he's, he's, he' he' he' he' he' he' The most important thing in all Croatian society is that there are certain gentlemen with such characteristics, performances that his father was in the CKK KP YU SK and what I know to you and that he is already like him. So they came from the former Yugoslavia to the Republic of Macedonia, none of them wanted, and they simply adapted themselves as camels, turned the red color blue, you understand, or blue white cubes and they again, they hid through obstacles in archives that you often mention to me that I was in, although I would be proto what I was saying, however, says we hid the archives and there is no evidence, but there is, some smart Serb there in Belgrade is transferable to contacts and to those other cards, and right now their files turn out also about our president, very Milanovic, and he was a small party. Imagine, he was in Tito's guard, and now he's abolished the Croatian guard, so if not all the features that matter to a country, let's start from that guard, start from the uniform, start from the anthem, that's important to someone, but it doesn't matter to him, and he cancels it. These cancel, they don't need it at all, they don't need the officials to pass the security check, then Stazic comes, he cancels the Commission to determine the victims of the war and the money, there's no archives, there's no law on the origin of the property, there's no law to recover the property that was taken there in '45. The same apartment that was taken in Draskovic, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, they just take away what doesn't answer them and their characteristics from the past system don't matter. That's why I often wonder why we don't have in the Republic of Croatia the processing of war crimes given the scale of the crime committed in the Republic of Croatia, precisely because they came from some former system where they were loyal, faithful, adapted, and they were instructed in this system. Now they've found themselves in an unprotected grape in the new Republic and they're very difficult to adapt. You know why? Well, because they're not lustrated. They should have been lastrated or returned to the factory settings and started again from the beginning. There are many people here in the Croatian Parliament who do not like this Croatian society today. You know why they don't fit? Well, it doesn't work because there's one me in HS. And I wonder, and it often doesn't suit me that I come here at all, that I'm sitting here and that I have to wait for the night to come to say what word because, unfortunately, I didn't get a lot of space. And I'm just about to end up with a story, and this is how it goes. A volunteer application for the JNA, sir signed up in '91. A year. He signed up in '91. 9 months in Shid as a volunteer at JNA. That same JNA at the time attacked Vukovar. And imagine, this gentleman, he's guilty of nothing now in the DORH and he's called Mr. Glavas, he's not here, he's called in the Parliament. And the devil doesn't give me peace, and I'm going to see what that story is, but as a miracle, imagine, someone pushes the writers into my mailbox, knowing that I'm going to publish those writers right away. I'm gonna have to ask Glavas if he didn't even set me up. And now, I write letters to Mr. President Jandrokovic, to the Minister of Justice Bosnjakovic and ask if he and he, from Shid, who works in Osijek as a state prosecutor, has passed the security checks that are important for him to do the job. And what happens? I end up at the DORH for the interview, as a witness, and that's where it says, "Art." That one and that one, I've got him here somewhere, for counterfeiting. ... a criminal offence. 278. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Penalty law, it's forging, falsifying an I.D., and now I poor thing came in there, which I'm about to do now, I'm not guilty of anything. What's going on? But then I go, the DORH gives some demention sloppy that he was at a battlefield in Nustr, and I, like, was from that neighborhood, I was in Nustr, I pulled those famous tanks out of there, says there was a commander in Nustr, Franjo Kračak, Josip Tomasic called Josa, Pok. Miro Klaric and Drazen Bliml, those are all my friends I knew. I'm calling them and asking if that gentleman was with you in the unit. Nobody knows him. So they even fixed the war route for him. All so that he would behave as he now behaves, and they all have some characteristics from the former Yugoslavia. and have some characteristics from our Croatia [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Short. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187373	We have a replica of a respected representative of Muscle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187374	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, I understand what you're saying. If we'd made a lustration in this country, nothing would have happened. Not some Tito's little partisans down in Rijeka the other day, five-pointed, wouldn't Franjić and the team make a circus from our country and underestimate us, would not say by fellow individuals that we should, we didn't kill enough or should kill because it wasn't enough, it wouldn't all be in the Croatian state, the Croatian people would believe in this country, believe in their system, Croatian people wandering, they don't know who to turn to and how to make order in the country. When we make order in this mess and that crime that was in the Croatian state, and especially about the crimes committed against the Croats in this country, then we'll know all this, there won't be people sitting in institutions that are also in that system of Yugoslavia, communism. behaving... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187375	The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187376	My fellow Micic, I was working at the police station after every assignment, and I had the duty to go out in front of the map as commander of some combat course, to get the antenna, because it was our antenna, and I say, in so many hours and so much time, and here and there and there, and I did it. I also plan to, when I get out of this HS that I can say that and I did that and that's what I said and that's what I stood for, and as soon as I got to HS, what intrigued me? My first encounter was with Beus Richembergh who's not here, when I'm talking, he's got to get out. Why? Well, because the man was an associate of the UDBA and the man who said he was going to sue me until I submitted evidence and he said he was going to sue me, he hasn't sued me yet. I still invite him, tell him, sue me no more, I can't mud him no more, and no more sanctions. That's the problem. If we were to go through a little bit and beg here at HS, do you know how many would go through as Croatian MPs? Little.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187377	Your Honor, Mr. Grbin has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187378	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. When you don't want to react, then I have to point to your injury. The 238 he committed, so I can't even call him a colleague, Mr. Culey, when he insulted Mr. Beus Richembergh. I think you should intervene at the very least, Mr. Cule, to give Mr. Cule a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187379	Thank you, but I still estimate that it wasn't, that it was within that political competition that we often hear here. And, uh, don't, don't, I said, I said before, I'll start giving warnings if you're gonna start fighting with the abuse of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go, pal Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187380	Dear colleague. Art. 238, I'm not a liar, I've never lied, and especially in HS, how you'll lie when everything's verifiable. That I am not convinced that Mr. MP did not pass the security check on the Croatian people, and he did not pass it because he forged the résumé, forgered the name and last name. He falsified everything and got to HS, and here he hides like a snake hides his feet. The man was doing it. [[Intruder Reiner: Good.]] What he was doing and he stayed on that trail. [[Thank you very much. I give you a warning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187381	Let's move on. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187382	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary, here is the motion to resolve Drazen Jelenić from the duty of the attorney general, which is essentially proof of the failure of the system, unfortunately the judicial system, and therefore is the cause of mistrust, such cases are the causes of our citizens' mistrust in the system, and mainly in the judicial system. I also said on behalf of the club that personally when I entered those political waters, I was more of an activist in the area at the time of my place of life of the city of Sinj, they were always making noises and some stories about the connection of the justice system with certain people who did not protect the public good that were doing essentially illegal things, but the fact is that when we speak and since then I've been aware of that because I was long in the Croatian Army until 2007, so I didn't know that. I didn't care, I was interested, but I did professionally my job as a professional soldier, but when I saw in essence, when you saw what the state's attorney and those bodies were doing the way they work, then when we said that, when someone was a free builder or a secret organization of some kind of mystic organization, the Masons, of course, whoever mentions secrecy then he's mystical, it's so in the people of this mysticism that, she shouldn't be secretive about these essential, essential functions like the duty of a chief state attorney. And the indicator of the failure of the system or security checks we'd tribal have people in the persecution system especially on the key, key duties of the attorney general says the system doesn't work. So we should find a new model. The only thing the minister said was something new now appears to be a public tender for the head of state's attorney, but in the end it will be voted by parliamentary deputies. So, at the end of the day, there's not gonna be anything new, nothing new has been brought in. The fact is that this system is intertwined, that we have a lot of things that our citizens rightly call for not functioning the system, that they are not protected and that basic human right. The right by the Constitution to guarantee the equality of all before the law in this case is evident and things must change. Whether the Government will find a solution, whether it will find a solution and propose a future government and propose to the Croatian Parliament to find ways and models to be the best in these professional duties for restoring the confidence of our citizens is now a question that we need to ask. Here I am, following the last days and what's been going on around the masquerade, the carnival of this guy we see having this courage and raising criminal charges against the people this. Here I would even suggest that we have the courage to tell people as I am mentioning here are very important and key people in the RH economic system with no intention of insulting either the Tedeschi family, or Tedeschoga that he took the money for the weapons of the '90s. In the year, the loan that was intended to defend the city of Sinja was intended for the so-called In the end, I can't get a confirmation of 15 years in the last 15 years, no matter what I've filed with all the lawyers and Bajic and Cvitana, I've raised everyone but I can't get a chance to get that million- and 400-mark loan back. He said that the weapons were more important then the bread, then we didn't have a uniform we were in rabatins with guns young and it was, but no one answered that. And of course when you see that these things were important when the foundations of the state were created that someone was creating their empire and that they are today instigating with their friends influence in politics is that Milanović, is it Plenkovic or I don't know who to scurry with or with the governor of the CNB and then it's a commitment. And then the question arises who is all in these Masonic or secret organizations other than what are called the freedom of the masonry. And that's where you see this connection because that mystic becomes reality. This mysticism becomes reality, and models obviously in Croatia i.e. Our system secretary is not working. It doesn't work, and obviously it doesn't show power there or interest, because simply these powerful men, but here I'll repeat once again, the excessive shelling of Imotsky because of the masquerade, here in Sinj yesterday were the masquerade, it would be good to say that Arsen Bauk was a state attorney, the state's attorney, so that he shuts down all the masquerade, everyone we have, but Tedeschoga and it should leave you aside, not Tedeschoga no, he's a friend with Milanovic, like Tedeschi, that he took money to defend the Cetin area it's a minor problem. Here, I suggest you be great maybe Arsen Bauk, a state attorney, bravely, heroically yesterday against people in Imotsky after excessive shelling, after all irrelevant, but it's masquerade. Well, we'll solve the masquerade problem, and the problem of the arms money doesn't solve it. Here, we'll handle this easily in three minutes. Here's a proposal for the attorney general. Now the problem is masquerade, the key problem of the Republic of Croatia. So we simply led to absurdities, absurd that people who created their own empires, linked to political elites, obviously through state-level legal structures, lobbyist structures are protected. And, of course, I'm saying this is going to be more pressure on me, on my family or on any citizen, not just me. I've been through all this, Secretary of State, and I've filed criminal charges where the money for the guns is four times for Sinj. They all say the procedures have passed, everything, but no one tells where the payment is and when the money is returned. That's the case with the car transport, that's the case with the CNB and the HANFE agency that would follow basically, the case about Agrokor where the bonds were spent without this one without a cover of 10 billion kuna was basically money, no one at all. But the masquerade is tradition, custom,.../incomprehensible/... the triba shelling.../incomprehensible/... so here's the name of the state's masquerade lawyer, here I suggest Mr. Arsen Bauk. It's courage, so what a Tedeschoga, what a Todoric before he was powerful. They were quality people, good, good sponsors. Or hook up with, why teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, why the state's attorneys don't raise their voice, which is why teleopers in the Republic of Croatia, foreign, don't behave like in countries where they come from, so they have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. Well, those are powerful, powerful. Therefore, I believe that the dissatisfaction of the citizens is justified, the new models we must seek, the elections of the state's attorney, the elections of the quality people, probably in the system there are, we are still a young democracy, whether the interweaving of interesting lobbies, structures and political, all structures and influences in making and in the decision-making process and connection within the state's attorney's system and any other, mainly when we talk about the sphere of this persecution then it's a fact. And that's why people are, say the biggest problem in Croatia's corruption. Because of these things. That's why everyone, no one should be thrown at anyone, but this system doesn't work, nor is it my interest here from this pay phone to, yes, to attack anyone's family, although if Emil Tedeschi accidentally has an account that he returned the city of Sinj money for the weapons of a million-and-a-half marks, a million and 400 marks, I'll apologize. But I've been looking for 10 years. of all the lawyers, before Bajic, ever since it started, it's led me into local politics essentially. Where's that money? And now there are people like them liberal, legislation, they're all okay, and those of us who ask that, but that's, I mean, it's minimal courtesy to those who died in the Homeland War to say that, I paid back the money, I took the loan, here's the bill. And that's Emil Tedeschi's economics, okay, all right, I apologize for everything I've called you, everything I've called, so it's known that there's a gun loan in '91, but these people aren't supposed to be spoken of, but grandmothers, people, this, what we do in Imotsky, we call all criminal applications for cats. That's why you'd be a good colleague to Klisovic Arsen Bauk for the state's attorney, I suggest him, mostly in this cat part, I would suggest him right now, so I have a proposal for a respected secretary, so here if you can look at him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187383	The next individual debate should be colleagues of Nikola Grumoje. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, so he'll speak to the next respected representative, Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187384	The next individual debate should be colleagues of Nikola Grumoje. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, so he'll speak to the next respected representative, Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187385	The secretary of state is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187386	No, no, it is, but I mean the secretary of state, every honor to the secretary of state and my respect and all eyes, but I'd rather the minister was here, he gave the eye the opening, so he could hear me wanting to tell him because he had a large number of replicas and he didn't answer any single question in our replicas. I am not going to discuss the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia which is catastrophic and in which people are disappointed and they have no confidence because we talked about it when we discussed the report on the work of the chief state attorney last week, I am not talking about mistrust in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, but I will try to point out exactly on this case as much as possible. So I'll do it again. It is unacceptable for me that the minister here today, in his explanation, says literally I don't need to explain anything to you because you know everything from the media. And then through the replicas a little bit under pressure we get him to change attitudes from replica to replica. In the light of this, the materials we received read the same sentence, the attorney general resigned or requested his resolution. Now let's construct a little bit, reconstruct that entire event. It comes out in the media that the chief state attorney is a member of an association of citizens called these free builders, Masons, etc., then he says it impotent him, but that he sees nothing controversial and will not resign. Then the minister tells him, you resign, you have to, your behavior is unacceptable, and he says I don't see anything controversial, I won't resign. Then Plenkovic tells him on the night, Prime Minister, if you don't resign tomorrow we'll get rid of you. And then look at the miracles, he suddenly asks for his solution and now the government here instead of saying look at us it's unacceptable, we would have solved it, we forced him to resign, no, we're here now as a throwing story so he's looking for it, there's no need to discuss it at all, we don't have to say anything because the man asked me to get rid of it. Look, we have to talk, so of all that I have a bigger problem with, the minister said the same thing today through replicas, Mr. Jelenic was a member of a secret organization, a secret association that we don't know who the members are, we don't know who they are. Now, I'm asking you, if it's an association of citizens, and we have the Association Act, how come we don't know who's there? And now I'm in my replica minister, so I'd like him to be here, say I'm a member of a DVD in New Vinodolski and some other associations, and does he know who the members are? So, not in the context of comparing DVDs and lodges and mass organizations, but in having some 100, 200 members of that association there, and certainly not in the government, they don't know who the members are. But on the other hand, the question is, if there's a secret organization or a secret association of citizens, does it work legally? Is that a legitimate association of citizens? Then why is it in the first wave, the government did not say, at any point here, either Minister, Prime Minister Plenkovic in the public, Mr Jelenić is a member of the organisation and it is not acceptable for reasons, because such a secret organization in which people who trade their influence from business, political and other institutions are doing personal benefit to themselves, and it is for the government to act illegally, not rather than for his membership in that association compromised the work of the state attorney's office in one case, which means that I am reading that there has not been a case of this supreme masseous leader in the Republic of Croatia, but that it was known that Mr Jelenic was a member of the Association of Free builders, so that he would not be a problem that he was a member of that free builder, because then there would be no case in which he compromised his work. That's what we need to talk about. Second thing, I asked that minister, he didn't answer me. How many of these associations do we have? I'm now reading here in the papers, not doing research on this Building, but I've been reading in the media the last few days that there are several of these associations, di one lodge, pa Orient, so the Middle East, China, Taiwan, etc. Now, I wonder if that's what I asked the minister, that's the question, does the government even know how many of these associations we have, are those secrets, are they business legal, are they registered at the Department of Administration? Whether the Minister of Administration has registered those orientations, I usually love the Orient very much, but the Football Club Orient from Rijeka, but it's one other story again, let's say, for example, I know that it's legally registered and that it works legally and has a long tradition, centuries-old. He doesn't have a century-old like you Zidari, but he does. Now, if these are legal associations, they're not legal associations. Second thing, there shouldn't be a security check. What are the Secret Service doing? What's SOA doing? The SOA gives us an annual report every year, and then the report is often, and these phenomena appear, the organisation of these and these citizens in that and that region in Croatia. Now, how come they don't know they've been showing up for 20, 30 years of masseering in Croatia and building? How does SOA not know? I know, here, 3 years ago, 2018 was a report by SOA, a stronger Chetnik movement in Croatia. I stayed in shock when I saw it. So where is it? I mean, well, maybe I live in a neighborhood where there isn't, but in the SOA report, it was to strengthen the Chetnik movement. How can SOA not know that it strengthens the masonry movement when we now see that there are several organizations. If they had from the attorney general to there, Mr. Gabric was talking in the media about a whole series of people. He said there were active politicians at all levels, from the lowest to the highest. Who are these people? What are the Secret Service doing? So this question is not at all a question of this point by the state's attorney and his work. His work is bad because he wasn't working certain cases and we talked about it last week. This has grown into something much bigger, and that's the RH system. Is our system working and whether we're like a country, that we have control over phenomena in our society. That's what I'm curious about. Whether or not the minister answers, the minister is all shy here, he's afraid to say. I feel like a man's uncomfortable. If he was embarrassed to tell you right now, look at this, he said himself, he's going alone, he decided to go himself, let's not talk about it at all, it's clear, you've read everything in the paper. Look, it's not the government's fault that he suggested Mr. Jelenic. So, I won't say at all, they didn't know it, at this point he said he had become a member of that association before that. So if we look at the procedure of how long the appointment only takes, then perhaps he's been recruited there or he's received a call in that selection process, so there, there's that question, everyone can be screwed up, or anyone can be deceived. But then there should be a clear condemnation and should be said, he cheated on us and that's why we're replacing him and it's unacceptable behavior. On the other hand, Prime Minister Plenkovic was very determined, manly, overnight told the state's attorney, look, tomorrow either leaves or we'll get rid of you in the morning. And when he had various associations in his organization, in the government, when he had his own secret associations in the government that worked on, led by certain ministers to re-use the land, for example, Then he said slowly, we'll see the papers, we have to look at it, I read it all, so it took weeks, months, etc. So in exchange for any criminal appearances, we're not so determined. But there's nothing there about the Prime Minister. And there it was all right and there it was all by law and all okay, but here, people got tired. And that's how this argument goes today, Minister Bošnjakovic here. Hey, look, it's a little compromised by that one case, but what I'm about to tell you, it's all in the media, it's all familiar, it doesn't make sense that I'm saying it, and the man asked himself to get rid of it, I didn't tell him to go away, not Prime Minister Plenkovic told him, you have to leave tomorrow, or we'll get you out of it, so it didn't happen like it didn't happen. Look, that's the problem. The question is whether the system in Croatia works for us and how these things can happen to us. And the second question is whether the government is going into final action now with these secret organizations and how many there are. Will the government, will someone run, the DORH or some service that, or the Ministry of Administration, and are they registered, how are they registered? If the Ministry of Finance is there, I'm now reading the papers to pay the membership fee, 30,000 kuna is a yearly membership in that elite organization. Are taxes paid, did they hand over those financial statements to the Ministry of Finance? So that's the whole of that spectrum of potential violations or functioning in the state system. And I expect it independently, Jelenic is the former, on Friday we will look at a solution, someone new will come, but I expect answers to these questions, i.e. I expect the government to deal with all of this, what, with all the problems and all the issues that are being opened and stemmed from this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187387	There are more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187388	Thank you, dear colleague. You've given an extremely serious speech for an unserious situation. This is something that causes a smile on the faces of everyone who thinks. You were wondering what the Secret Service was doing. Well, the Secret Service, if you remember, threatened a former advisor to the former president to step on it. No one took it seriously because apparently if they said they threatened to crush me, then the whole country would react. We've had this one scandal endangering national security, and this, that we should check state lawyers or do a security check on everything that I've been following for the last week, from the Masoni affair, I'm just concluding that both the Masons and the state's attorneys and the government need a good psychologist to teach them self-censorship and teach them how to focus on what's important, and that's running the state, not the game in the apron.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187389	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187390	Well, colleague Vuketic, it's me, I agree with you, I completely agree with you, but this is a serious situation for me. That's why I think it's a serious speech, because it's also these questions that you've just said, so it comes out of this, from this situation, or from this one, that it's tragically affecting the masses in Croatia today and the guys in the apron, as you said, but it opens up the question of the functioning of the rule of law, the functioning of the secret services, and it's a good thing that you've reminded this event, here and I must admit that I've forgotten that a secret service leader has threatened the former president's advisor and that it's never been investigated, that if he wasn't telling the truth that there's been a procedure against him or if he was telling the truth to investigate what was going on there, but that's why this case might be welcome to talk about it all over again and reminding us and that we're looking for answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187391	The next replica is the respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187392	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Djujic. In his debate, you reminded us of a very important fact, which is that after talks in the government, the Prime Minister said that unless Chief State Attorney Jelenic resigned, he would be replaced the next day. Is this about unauthorized pressure on still the current state's attorney? Is that how the government is allowed to move towards the DORH? And let us also remember that the Prime Minister was able to hold presses with the state's attorneys by bringing them back into a special situation towards himself and the executive authority. Is this a democratic standard we want to cultivate in this country or is it a democracy that we use when we like it, and when we don't like it, we use some old-fashioned methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187393	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187394	Thank you very much, colleague Klisovic. It is a thin line between the permitted and illicit pressure and the influence of politics on the attorney general. Of course, it shouldn't even exist, of course, that the chief state attorney should be completely independent and that the Prime Minister is in no way, in my opinion, not to hold either presses with him or try to influence him. In this case, I don't think it was an illegal pressure, but it was exactly what it was supposed to be, that after this knowledge of the activities of the attorney general in that one association, someone had to tell him because obviously the man didn't see the problem. In fact, he was saying that it impotes her and he wasn't showing any signs as if it were something controversial and that he should leave. Then someone should have told him to leave, and if that's the Prime Minister, I'm pleased with that, but I'm not satisfied that in this explanation here, get away from the minister and away from this material that's printed all the real mutative and like he himself decided to leave, we didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187395	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187396	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, esteemed colleague Djujic. I know a lot about builders, and I know absolutely I can claim that the builder is missing in Croatia. But I know about the Masons what I read in the books and it's always intrigued me, but what we now had the opportunity to see that and the Masons when they were in Croatia, are not secret but in Croatia all a little different and we here, yes, we had the opportunity to discuss the work of a state attorney, we had, we had the opportunity to discuss how well or bad he was doing his job, but we actually all the time, he wouldn't have gone away if he wasn't a slave with a mistake. No one can convince me that you didn't know that. No one, therefore, is the story of the relationship between him and his lodges, and those vaults obviously came to me, that it didn't last, as far as they were concerned, two days, three days, it lasted three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187397	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187398	Well, pals, I can't believe you didn't know that, either. That's interesting to me. I'm interested in a little timing, so we're in this High House discussing a report on the work of the state's attorney general in two or three years' time and we're not even able to vote on him to accept it or not to accept it, and suddenly it pops out into the media. And now all of a sudden, we're all surprised here, and now we're all having fun with the Masons, and the question is how it all works, so I'm still calling for the security system of the Republic of Croatia and for the functioning of our institutions, so who is it that knows something is ticking when something's going to play, and in which direction is the debate in society about certain problems. So obviously things don't work out in the country or are being abused for someone's political interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187399	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187400	A young colleague, I think you have very misjudged the SOA report because the appearance of Chettism in Croatia may not be so visible at this time on large screens, but it is very good visible immediately through the Danube in Athens where the Patriotic League is training Serbian boys and there has been a gathering of all Serb wars from 90-99. If in Croatia you have an abundance of defenders' associations from the Homeland War, be sure that there are also in Borov village, in Brshadin and Negoslavi there is certainly some definition of Dušan Silnog or some of their orders or Draža Mihajlovic or as they have all been called, so they exist, but they may not be active, but these from SOA were very visible, and they recognize it, they know what they are talking about. We can minimalize here, but that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187401	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187402	Comrade Culey, I'm sorry you weren't in the hall when I was saying it, so obviously, yes, well, you have probably a sensor, a transmitter. But you didn't hear right. I didn't minimize it at all. But I said if SOA can say it's happening and see it, I didn't say it wasn't true. How can he not see the Masons? That's what I said. So, if they see the phenomenon of Chettism, the appearance of fascism, the appearance of anything, so they don't now focus on one thing, how can they not see the phenomenon of masseering in Croatia, how can they not see these Zidares, the particles, the trails and the bridges, as this predecessor of yours said, how can SOA not see it? What, what are they doing? I don't believe that they don't know that it doesn't exist and that there are no 5, 6, 7 lodges, Orient,... That's what I was talking about, and that's what I was talking about, not this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm sorry you weren't here to hear the context.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187403	The next individual debate will be honored MPs Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187404	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've been arguing for a few hours about the fact that the attorney general resigned and it came to our debate and we're actually doubting the next one, which was the reason for the man to change his mind and resign? So, just historically little that's happened. The state's attorney was in this assembly on 12 February, he was almost all day long because we had a debate on the State's Attorney's Office's work report for 2017 and 2018. We talked about how bad it was, we talked about what was wrong, the man was here all day. We didn't really have a chance or vote, it would be interesting to see how the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2017, 2018, will be very interesting to see what the results are, but when we see we'll be able to comment, and the man went to work, and then when the problem was opened that he was a Mason member, and the problem opened up for the reasons they had a fight and that he used his position as a top state attorney to protect some of those members and then he said that sentence that I, I didn't have, so I'm not going to quote it, but he said I'm very proud that it was an association where big guys are gathering, or something like this in that sense, and that he was extremely imprompting it to him. Let's do a few things, first of all, when you're the attorney general, you have to be independent in your action, and it's questionable if you're also a member of the Association of Followers of the Follower of the Dark Bear because you can get yourself into a situation where this association of watchers of the trails of the Dark Bear sued with, let's say, Slovenia that too many dark bears from the Republic went to Slovenia and let the Slovenians call me back, or in France, and he'll find himself here wanting not to in some conflict of interest. So, we clearly have to say when you're on this kind of thing, you have to be, it's a very, very thin line because if you're a member of anything you can find yourself in your action in a situation that pleases one of these and that's one topic. The second topic is the work of a state lawyer from the period or when he was shown regardless of the résumé everyone praised him for, which was the reason why individuals voted, he showed that he was not up to the task, that the place and function of the attorney general was far too big for him. And then let's go see the whole context. My dear colleagues and colleagues, there are 4 million of us in the Republic of Croatia, if we were a state with 40 million I would say, so it couldn't be known, it couldn't be done, it was all secret. In a country where there are 4 million of us, it's absolutely amazing that no one, or that secret service, knew that he was a member of a masseuse or free builders, or free builders, were born a little different, the Masons were created in enlightenment, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. So someone answered that he was a slave with a mistake, that being that he could be imputed to him, showed a photograph and that it was a situation where he knew that he was being blackmailed at any time. If you're in that place, you're being blackmailed, then you're in the big premiere. The prime minister dealt with this case relatively quickly, unlike some other cases, obviously we have a very hard cohabitation here, and I assume that with ministers we have a soft cohabitation, so it took a little bit less or something more to take care of, or a little longer, that some ministers who have even been here twice in this assembly because they asked for their impeachment, and then they went away from other things, not because they are bad ministers, but because of some other things. Likewise, our chief state attorney who resigned leaves something that I am absolutely convinced that it was not secret that it was known because it was already, but also in the state's attorney's office, an object that was spinning in circles and where certain photographs were seen, therefore, he was leaving because of this, not because of his inaction or different standards. They had one measure when it came to Agrokor, and they had an absolute second criterion when it came to individual ministers. When it came to Agrokor, it was solved even recently, when it came to individual ministers, then it lasted, lasted, lasted. Among other things, there is quite a handsome data that he said that citizens, he compared, compared in his report in 2017 and 2018, and he said that there was an incomparably less complaints in 2018 than in 2017, because when you saw how many of these objections were resolved, it was clear why it was less because people left any hope. But this debate of ours and the positions of the attorney general provides a certain picture of the Republic of Croatia. Someone who tries to do so on the side most neutrally will conclude the following, the masseuse are secret organizations or are as secret as they want except in the Republic of Croatia, there are neither able nor masseous to organize it in the way it is organised in other countries. In the Republic of Croatia, the state's attorney-in-chief decided to be a masseuse, he became that before he became the attorney general. I'm too old to find that connection and too much experience and that absolutely when you look at some other high-ranking state-of-the-art judges in the world then later you see that they were Masons, some prime ministers were Masons, so it's not something that a man, which is not already known to be. In Croatia it is secret in Croatia when you are then a slave with a mistake because I can always put it on your nose and that may be why the prime minister will tell you that you can go alone or the Prime Minister will change it. It would be good if for the future, however, we will see that now because the law has changed in the meantime, how we are now going to choose the attorney general, we will give it a choice and who it will be. If at all work, when we talk about the work of the State's Attorney's Office, no matter how you vote, everyone shows dissatisfaction. If the state's lawyers in Croatia were generally elected from people who had their experience and their work in the State's Attorney's Office. If you see things don't work then... the moment you make a cut and say ok, so far we've had this, things don't work we have another methodology so maybe it wouldn't be bad for a guy who's not a kid of that law because it's just the worst thing for you to become, it's my experience, it's the worst thing for you to become the boss in the middle where you used to work, it's not easy. The colleagues you've worked with always think they should have a discount because you've been drinking coffee together long ago or having some meetings together, and you have to become the boss at some point, and you have to set yourself up differently. So, on the human side, it's not that simple. It's just a question of whether we really want to have the State's Attorney's office as we wrote that we want it or not. So that's our tendency when you look at the rule perfectly, when you look at everything that's written there, you have nothing to add and taken away, and you come into real life and into reality and it doesn't work. The state's attorney should have gone because he's a bad state attorney, and being a member of a secret organization, I'm absolutely sure he knew it, but you just have positions and you have some places where you can't be a member of anything and what's indirectly connected to your work because sooner or later you'll want to or won't get into a bargaining situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187405	On your show we have replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187406	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, I agree with you in part, I don't have to say. So, I agree in this part when you said that this situation had to be known and agreed that the attorney general was obviously a person who was not up to that position and that he was in one hand and a slave with a mistake. However, I do not agree that he was so easily blackmailed or that he left because I don't know why Prime Minister Plenkovic would blackmail him and decided that he would now pull that secret tool out of the drawer and blackmail him to leave because he hastily rejected the Agrokor case, the Borg therefore did not investigate there so that he resented Plenkovic, he did not launch any investigations against these ministers, so we discussed it during the report. He did nothing where he would object, let's say, to Prime Minister Plenkovic, like the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or others in the Republic of Croatia, so I don't know why he would activate his secret tool to force him to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187407	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187408	Thank you very much. So sometimes your incendiary is a much bigger problem than any other incendiary. What was that reason, I do, we'll see at some point someone will write a book or issue some memoirs and maybe we'll all be surprised or see what happened. But I really can't believe you didn't know about it. If they've been circulating for some time, if one of the portals published it, if someone should have been locked up because he was blackmailing Mr. Gabric, I think he publicly showed it there's no reason why I don't now say his last name and what he is and if in all that story he was also the attorney general. Maybe Mr. Plenkovici came around a lot, and he said, "I can't take you anymore after all these ministers." Maybe that was the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187409	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187410	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. You said it was justified that Mr. Jelenić was here at our assembly the other day. When we had to evaluate the quality of his work he submitted a report, it was that it was for 2017, but MPs still had the opportunity to ask him about his current work. We saw the ruling majority's representatives defending him in fact in what he's doing and proving to us that it's a very good job, the opposition was much more critical in that. It is then found out at one point that the man is a member of an association that is registered in the Republic of Croatia as a legitimate association, the representatives of the majority are turning the board, and now the state's attorney is no longer good. So what's important in this country? Does it matter how you do your job legally in accordance with some professional ethics, or does it matter which association you belong to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187411	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187412	So the key question that we have to ask ourselves is what the State's Attorney's office wants, what we want with it at all because when you're reading and the provision that we have in the Constitution and everything else, you can't say it's misspelled, you can't say it. There when he was the attorney general and we respected a series of things, then he defended himself from not having enough people, that was one of the reasons, that there wasn't enough resources, that was another reason, that he had an old systemization from 2001, so who should make him a systematization? He himself, so you're doing yourself a systematization. And all that we were saying wasn't and wouldn't have been any further reason if he hadn't made some mistake in steps along with the Masons. Maybe, but that's what it would be now if it were. So, he was proud of being Masons, but that story with the Masons the moment the public saw and was already a story that was chewed up and old. So he has to leave because he didn't do his job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187413	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The link between HDZ and top state attorneys is one sad and unhappy relationship. Since 2000. The HDZ government appointed, it proposed to the Croatian Parliament that I be more precise two state lawyers, one Mr. Mladen Bajic, he accused them all of both the party and the party president and several ministers, and he remained the entire mandate, his second term, and the other one did not accuse anyone and he had to leave. What a paradox and accident. Why did he have to leave? I mean, it's very clear, so he failed in the appointment of probably the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister and afterwards the Croatian Parliament that he was a masseuse. If they knew that, they might have suggested it, and maybe they wouldn't. To make it look like a debate about his appointment in the Parliament that this fact was known, we can imagine, I believe it would be a fun and above all a dynamic debate. But that's what we'll never know because by learning that fact we have when we talk about a solution. The moment he announced that he was a massa, especially when he accepted being a member of a masseuse or a masseuse, he said he had been imponed by someone who recognized his work. That's quite interesting to me in principle, I don't know if anyone recognized his future work, so he suggested it or his past work. Because if he was recognizable as a deputy chief of state attorney, then the government recognized him as the head of state attorney, not some group joined in some secret brotherhood, so that was more important to him than the government suggested him to be the attorney general. So it was actually quite logical to call the prime minister and the prime minister's reputation, and so I invited him on behalf of the SDP to resign and he did. ... So logically he resigned at the SDP's call... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's because the government threatened him, so they said if you can't stand it, we'll get rid of you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we asked him, so did fellow Giujic and you see that a nice word a lot, are you careful,... No, no, no, I listed those reasons. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So in art. 28. There are reasons to resolve the attorney general, and when I read them, you will see that Plenkovic fired an empty rifle by saying he was going to get rid of it. Because what? First, one reason is permanent incompetence, it's not. The second reason is the indictment, and it's not. The third reason is illegal work, and it's not. The fourth is, it damages the reputation of the State's Attorney's Office by its actions, it's not yet. He may have hurt by not acting, but he did not harm his actions. It does not take action, does not implement the programme and does not achieve satisfactory work results. Now, how are they going to say that it doesn't deliver satisfactory work results when it was defended a few days ago? Therefore, the shooting, or threat of the prime minister, was such an empty-gun shot, but it was very clear that the chief state attorney had lost confidence, but all both the government and the opposition and the public because he had denied one important fact in his appointment. We discussed his report for 2018, we discussed the report for 2017 in 2020, before we had to ask the signatures to discuss the report for 2016, but in fact the best philosophy of HDZ according to the chief state attorney said 2015. Tomislav Karamarko when an immunity request came to one of the newly appointed MPs as for all MPs coming within a reasonable time frame, then he said he was smart would have sent it after the election. So, the attorney general must obviously have a sense of political moment and timing, that's the criterion. And here's Mr. Jelenić had no, he had the impression that he had a sense of political moment and timing, but there was no feeling for those finesse whether to go to the association or not. A word, two on the masses of the so-called Free builders, the Masons of course are mentioned in several pops and rock songs and form broad coalitions I must say. So in Thompson's song "E my peoples" they are together with antichrists, communists, these and those who spread Satan's phrases to defeat us. In the Voika V song, however, they are suspected of sabotaging him along with the government and Serbs, and of course TBF recognized Jews and Bin Laden, so there is a broad coalition. Those masons can go with everyone, I'd say they remind me of HNS a little bit, but it doesn't matter. So, as far as the Masons are concerned, they've always been the bad guys in these stories and, of course, the attorney general couldn't trust the public on the matter of the Masons. What was still a little bigger problem for the state's chief attorney or future former chief attorney, that it was a secret or public organization with a secret membership, I am well, and then it must not reveal who is there and then create various addictions, interdependences, and, of course, that an independent and independent body can no longer function independently or independently. And if that wasn't clear to him, then he made a very big mistake, though, we did well, and we went as far as he was untalented for the job, I have to say, really, she had the state a little bit of luck. He really could've done a lot more damage. I mean, he demonstrated his talent on his way out of the lodge, not these masseuse ones, but those in the theater when they put him sitting with the mayor, he wrote a statement of order, but that state's decision wasn't exactly him, it wasn't very good for him. So, here, Mr. Jelenić, we'll remember two lodges, and while we're on the secret, as it goes, there's a secret connection, for all people the law is rigid, with which man binds himself when choosing his own path, Mr. Jelenic has chosen his way, from Friday he'll probably be ex. And yes, I must admit, I don't even feel sorry for him. I don't even feel sorry for him, so sometimes when some official makes a mistake, any one, when some official makes a mistake, I don't know, here's this chief, say, well, a little bit. So, when someone makes a mistake because of the inexperience, because of the inexperience of colleague Mrak-Taritash, we were all wrong, I don't think our government... Noted for the attorney general, so it's a little bit, no, no, it only takes criticism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, but here he's really not sorry. So you just watch, you can't believe that someone who has so many years of experience doesn't see it, doesn't see what he's done, doesn't get it. In fact, the DORH made a statement defending the attorney general. So, despite the fact that in the end, this is an extortional move that was logical and maybe it's not right anymore, and it's not going to hit it, because it's simply not going to leave some, it's not going to be called, it's not going to leave any trace in the work, however, it's one episode in the HDZ series and top state attorneys and now we're waiting for season four. Now we're waiting for whom HDZ will propose for this few months of their term of office as attorney general or attorney general. They've made the procedure a little bit complicated by law, but maybe it's not so bad. Peja Grbin said in the introduction on behalf of the club some criteria, I hope that, that the government will stick to them and that we will be able to vote in favour of a proposal that comes from the government, but, I mean, optimism is ultimately, which remains for us other than believing that we will be 3rd fortunate, here, I guess you won't be 3rd time... State's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187415	We have more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187416	Comrade Bauk, it's hard to give a replica, you need a music critic more, since half the debate is songs and lyrics, but you said two things. You said that the attorney general should have a sense of political moment and timing, and then you mentioned that Tomislav Karamarko had said about that colleague, that as if he had been smart, he would have sent her after the election, so he needed brains, not feeling for a moment and timing. Yet the mind is crucial, then it would be possible to conclude from your debate that the attorney general has no sense whatsoever. Secondly, you said in your report on the work that one of the criteria is failure to meet the objectives and dissatisfaction of work and that it wasn't because they praised him, but we didn't get a vote on that report, so we don't know how to vote by ruling, maybe we wouldn't accept those reports. And what's the situation, maybe we won't even know for the next few months how to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187417	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187418	Thank you. It was only four and a half verses. No, for 10 minutes, I was talking, uh, as far as the political momentum and timing is concerned, I once called one of the state's chief attorneys "Stand-byic", if you remember that, because, because he had a certain feeling, then, in my opinion and in our club's opinion, then, 10 years ago, for a political moment and timing. So, so it's obvious that it's one continuity at a political moment and timing. Let's say, it's not bad to have a political moment and a timing that in the breaking of the ruling majority you propose detention for one agent because of travel orders, and you don't propose detention for much wider and harder incrimination which is the same kind of timing and political moment and mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187419	... It's a replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187420	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, the problem of the key DORH is not only that this mystic association of Free builders, the Masons, but obviously exclusively work, and you have mentioned it for this association, because it was obviously better to come to Gabric, the head of the Free builders, the doctor, to the state's attorney than anyone else, because it was simply impossible to control both Bajic and this chief state attorney. So the man had, as you said a feeling for, no sense of political moment and timing, that's why not a single state lawyer of all so far, didn't want to solve the important problems, strong, let's say, people, powerful men, like the money for guns, you know, you're from the top that the Meteor Paper family Tedeschi company took for the weapons as a loan, never returned. More will react to the excessive bombing of Imotsky and in the case of the mascara than those who are All right, all right, all right, all right. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187421	The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187422	Ha, we don't all have the same priorities, Comrade Bull, which you will, that's right. So, as far as political timing is concerned, the moment, etc., I think the history of the work of the state's attorneys in Croatia records and the type's statements that one of the first presidents of Croatia, one of the first Croatian presidents asked the candidate for chief state attorneys whether he was ready to conduct state policy, at the time we speak if you, that is, did not ask him whether you would act by law or how the text of the oath goes, but whether he was ready to implement state policy. He immediately stopped being an independent and independent body. But we're a young democracy, there's still time, sometimes it's a thing and a case, like you said, it's going to go to the Masons like, the Coronavirus came because that one missed, hit the pen in the last minute, and then it went to Atalanta, so ours went to the game. But that's an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187423	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187424	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, in your presentation, except for that poetic part and you referred to the fact that one of the reasons why the attorney general resigned and that on behalf of the SDP you called him to resign and he listened and gave you. Now, I'm interested in what the reasons were, why the SDP decided to call and call the attorney general to resign because there are a number of things, or when you read why Mr. Plenkovic was the same, he could resign because he would hardly solve it and determine all these things. You may have said something about it somewhere, but let me do a little bit of that, since this poetry part was both the beginning and the end, maybe I missed it, so please, I'm curious once again, which were the reasons why you estimated that the attorney general should resign and leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187425	The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187426	Okay, this is, these romantic poetic moments were just about to camuflate the seriousness of the situation, that's, I mean. I've had opportunities, I've had the opportunity to show everything very black, so we're all getting depressed, but maybe not this time. So I, colleague Bulj first warned me that he had called it before me probably because she was busy so you all had a press conference before we did, but I was going to do it while you had a press conference so then, why Mr. Dark-Tarit? In this I referred to the fact that, by hiding the facts, by keeping the government and the minister of justice, that a member of that organization, had lost the trust of them, us, the public, everything else, and otherwise, the president of our party in the debate on the report was a little sharper and a little more directly said why Go away. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187427	The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187428	Dear counterpart Bauk, as you have said in a likable way that the masses are connected, at least in trendy poetry with Serbs, the government, the communists and... I can actually be connected to anyone, I can't be connected to anyone after all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't be with the sovereigns, because it's a Christian option, but here, and the Catholic Church is explicitly against the Masons, it would be very clear, but here, I know it was a satire on your part, but here's a small, small object.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187429	Answer, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187430	Yes, my colleague Zekanovic, I am familiar with the attitude of the Catholic Church towards the Masonic Associations. I don't think I said, I said they have a very wide range of possible coalitions now and this party I mentioned as similar also doesn't have a widest spectrum, but basically, it's basically that Mr. Jelenic has failed the trust of those who have proposed it. First of all, to the public because he denied an important fact. The opposition, however, never had any excessive trust from us, and that's why 1/1 must go away, so it's simple, it's just so obvious that there's no need to further explain, and about the Masons there might be one round table and we'll power a little more than this minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187431	I thank my colleague, Bauk. My colleague Misic is not present. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187432	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My dear secretary, this debate, although it should have been more interesting, is all but uninteresting. It has neither a radical opinion nor a radical focus on the topic under discussion and what consequences, what we are now discussing, is challenging the legal system and the attitude of citizens towards legal order and legal security in the Republic of Croatia. We've been discussing secret organizations and secret organizations so far, and we've been expecting secret organizations to tell us their secrets. It's almost like it's a perverse version of the neocatecumene. Unocatekumne, it is one, in my court, a dangerous group within the Catholic Church that is just based on this mechanism of secret confessions in which someone who is a member of that community confesses to all others who are members of that community and clearly follows the mechanism of psychological conditioning and the mechanism of psychological blackmail. I have recognized something similar in this case, but not because something inside a mass organization has clashed because if a mass organization is not worth it anywhere, it is not worth it in Croatia because it acts as a group of unbalanced people who are not able to solve their problems in a different way than in some hysterical outbursts in front of the media. I'd really like to have that kind of masseuse, but only for that reason, for professional reasons, because I'm interested in everything that's unbalanced, I'm interested in, anyway, in everything that's going on in a man, and then that man tries, moving in space to get the impression that he's important. A stupid man is always stupid, it's only dangerous when a fool goes crazy, then it's awkward combinations and I'd like to have something like that for professional reasons only, but as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I'm worried about this case. I'm worried that there's been no arrest, here, almost at the level of Zizek who thinks philosophers should be the ones who will be the leaders of the arrest, the arrest, but in this case someone should really be arrested. He was supposed to be arrested by a state attorney if he didn't do his job because he shot someone from an association of citizens legally registered in the Republic of Croatia. Either he should have been arrested or he should have been arrested by whoever approached him, and that's Nikica Gabric. If he tried to influence the criminal process, he should have suffered criminal consequences and should have been prosecuted for it. Furthermore, the minister of justice was to be prosecuted because he had sent a message earlier to the chief state attorney that unless he stepped down and resigned himself, he would be removed. It's also illegal pressure on the attorney general. If the attorney general doesn't do his job, then he needs to be removed and he needs to be held accountable for what he didn't do. We can't protect some law breakinger, even if it's the state's chief attorney with an unusual, in my court, there are a lot of unusual dress rules and practices. In Masonic aprons, I see nothing different than clothes in traditional Islam or clothing traditional in Christianity that wear, for example, priests. From the level of secular state, we view it exclusively as a fashion whim. Everyone has the right to be in fashion, but no one has the right to step on the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It's obvious here, as I have already said in the reply to the minister, it's a conflict of light. We have a dominant world view in the Republic of Croatia, and that is a Christian worldview that has made mistakes every time it enters politics, although Zekanovic does not think so. Every time Christianity tried to become politics and be relevant in the sense of the state, it made a mistake. I'm glad that already mentioned colleague Zekanovic today said he would publicly show that he is a member of the Catholic Church. When he does, I will be extremely happy, which means that his colleague Zekanovic has accepted the principle of secular state because he views the Catholic Church as an association, not as an earthly and celestial reality. When you declare yourself a member of the Catholic Church, you have also accepted the secular state, and I congratulate you on that and congratulate you on all who have been working in the debates with you, that something like that should be done as well. Now let's get back to the problem of the Catholic Church and what the Catholic Church has done is wrong. In 1966, the index of banned books was lifted. It was forbidden by Kant, Copernicus, Descartes, Nicetzsche, because all these people are and all that works were forbidden to read, so that souls would not be corrupted. Care for souls is always an important concern. A country that takes care of the soul of a single Mason or that takes care of the peace of mind of a prime minister, suppose one soul is Masonic, that another soul is Christian, is not a state but one or a perverse neocathemane community or a perverse Amish community, but in no way can we talk about the state. It is the state that implements the law and that will enable all associations of freedom of action and also the Masonic association if they do not violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and that will enable all religious communities to act in society and to have the freedom of social action, because then, in their activities and religious communities, they will implement their laws, the religious communities will make changes they wish to make. And the purpose of the religious community is not to replace state lawyers or enter the laws of a state, specifically the Republic of Croatia, but to change within their membership. We need to take into account the change in moral levels and the change in what is the legal level or what is the law. In this case, we can conclude that the law was not implemented but that we were fighting for some kind of false morality. There's a case on, when I was a member of the Justice Committee, I asked the attorney general a question, after the attorney general said he resented the work of the courts because the courts were disputed and that they did not make proper judgments, and the President of the Supreme Court said that he was defiant because the attorneys of the state were not preparing well, in a sufficiently good way and that they were falling, because they were missing. Now imagine a situation in which the attorney general detests the work of the courts, and the Supreme Judge for the work of the state's attorneys. It was a scandal for me. It's a scandal I called maximum provocation because it causes legal uncertainty and a sense of legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. When that happens, we don't have to be surprised that the city I'm from is Zadar, there's one indictee, and now he's illegally freed, and that's Bozidar Kalmeta. Why was he wrongfully convicted? So because the indictment was written to him that he was then to be declared Croatia's first self-painter, not responsible for painting, the coloring of tunnels that were not allowed. It's, it's indictments, you know what level it was at? That is, man always leaves his mark in words and conduct and action. When he was declared indemnity, cleared of the charges, then his associates, they couldn't come to themselves from the joy that the indictment fell, and I guess his associates know best what it's like in this case, specifically, about the politician. To us, the DORH, let's not bring it down to these world-wide recommendations, but the DORH together with the court and in this case the deputy, what happens to the deputy chief of police, is all unfortunately the bodies that are suspected of corruption, and these are all bodies that have become not in function of the lustration that my colleague Culej spoke of, but have become, they are almost recruited to serve exclusively in cleaning and creating a clean and innocent character and the works of politicians who are deeply networked and entwined in corruption so that indeed when I think about it, this is a world-class problem and this is a religious dimension, because the main State's Attorneyship together with the courts of many proclaims us innocent, priests, mysts, free people and role models and should be the opposite of what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187433	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187434	Dear colleague Vučetic, here you really surprised me, I must admit, whenever you speak, I always think where it will go but if you had started talking about the subject of a state lawyer, Mr. Jelenić, that you started talking about a perverse, dangerous, neocathmic organization. You are a king, an absolute king. I'm really impressed, impressed. Try to be a little bit more, let me pick a real word, a little more dangerous, and so, a little bit more exclusive, you can be seen by your colleague Bauk and the team in the SDP, you're on your way, go ahead, you're doing a very good job and we really need to make sure that this dangerous perverse neo-catecumene doesn't do something to our country, we have this very big problem, and it's good that you've warned the state of that big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187435	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187436	Thank you. Dear colleague, I was talking about becoming almost one perverse neocathumen community. The difference between the neo-Catsum community and the perverse neo-Catsum community is that one is perverse and the other is not. I don't think that's a problem to understand, but if it is, I'd be happy to take it from my few days off and tell you how long it takes to explain the difference between perverse and not perverse. It's not just a notional thing, it's also a reference to what the term means. And as for possibly my membership in the SDP, you don't have to worry, as a strict individual, as a person who performs without any identity, I can't be a member of any organization or any communities but I'd be happy to have you, too, and not to be in a constant attempt to seduce you into the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187437	Thank you. Next replica, honorary colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187438	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Vučetic, you were at the very beginning of your presentation although I must admit, this second part was very interesting, but I will refer to the first part, saying that the state's attorney resigned what the fact and showed doubt at all what the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic thought about these resignations and that they were because all the time, even when he was a resolute minister, we have only a fact, he offered, or he resigned, the government accepted it, the Parliament will accept it the same as we saw from the debate, but the government's position and the prime minister's position at all, whether that's the reason or the other reason, we haven't heard it all the time, so he was just a member but he was a member of the masse, before he became a state attorney, so I actually refer to that part of yours, I'm the beginning of your exposure, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187439	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187440	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. It is obvious that if we look at the position of prime minister and HDZ, he should resign because of their secret knowledge not because of the secret knowledge we have nor because of the secret knowledge that is being cherished in the cult actions of a mass organization but because they had some knowledge and that is exactly what I find scandalous in this case. The prime minister and the minister of justice should have said why the chief state attorney should step down, or why he will be removed, not come to his attorney's office and persuade him or some other concepts we can use, blackmailing him. This is what but obviously is done and the parties operate at the level of secret organisations, at the level of stakeholders, lobbying and just to be lobbying legally, should be kept by the State's Attorney General on all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187441	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187442	... Vice President of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Why has the attorney general been removed? I'm sorry, he hasn't been removed, he resigned. And why did he resign? Because the prime minister said he would be relieved if he didn't resign. Now, if the attorney general has caved under political pressure, then he's better off resigning. We don't need one like that. Was he wrong about the law? Mr. Bauk was just reading the reasons why a state's attorney under the law could be removed. Turns out he wasn't wrong about the law. Then we're told he's been removed because he's a member of a secret organization, a Mason, a free builder. Then someone found it appropriate to check with the Association Register in the Republic of Croatia if it was a secret organization, so it turned out that it wasn't, that it was registered, even the host was registered. Yeah, then it reshapes, it's been removed because it's a member of a semi-secret organization. What's a half-secret organization? Defined by some law of the Republic of Croatia? It's not. Afterwards, it was said to have been removed because its membership in the free builders or the Masons made it blackmailable and as such could not act in the public interest, a very important function. So he's being replaced because he's being blackmailed. Well, look, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we're all blackmailers. If you have any property and they come and tell you, pay me for protection, otherwise I'll destroy your property, you're being blackmailed. If you don't pay, I can destroy your property. It's called racket or racketeering. So anyone who has any property can also be subject to various types of blackmail, and it is up to him to see if they will succumb to it or not. So it is with membership in any organization, even in the Free builders, that you judge whether you give in or do not give in to any blackmail. It is also said in terms of blackmail that it springs from the oath of the Masons, which is “I will defend my brother, if I have to with my own life. ” Doesn't that seem a little archaic to you? That it belonged to some ancient knight times, when it was thought that a brother should defend his brother with his life? Today it is not so relevant, but it is part of the tradition of an organization called the Masons. There are other organizations. People team up according to different criteria. Some in Rotary, some in the Lions Club, some in Opus Dei, some there, some there, some are knights, of the Stone Gate or of the Grave of Jerusalem, each going with the people with whom they find something in common. And that is why it should be tried and therefore it should be treated as excluding the reason for public function. I just came from BiH, from the road directly to the assembly room, I didn't go home. I came here for the reason I felt the need to raise my voice for the protection of freedom. To protect free-thinking people. Yeah, people who feel free to think. To protect the free association of Croatian citizens, if it is in accordance with the law. And those associations that are registered in Croatia are in accordance with the law, so they act in accordance with the law. My colleagues and colleagues, many of you here have spit very lightly on the loose. You've got it in your head. It's bad, we fought hard for the freedom of this country, but also for the freedom of every man and his right to think and his right to association. Available information about Free builders, Masons, they say, via the Internet, if you gather them, that they act on the principle of humanism, not Satanism or dogma. They feel free to think and want to build their free thoughts into a better society on the principle of humanism. I'm not a Mason, so someone doesn't misread what I'm saying. I am here seeking the freedom of every Croatian citizen to think and to team up as far as it goes against the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. After all, many politicians in the world are now masseous or masseous. The eyes of the American nation, the American Constitution, were, say, like that and no one satonized them, as we were about to do with the members of the Masons' Association. We treat them like a coronary virus, something that is dangerous to our nation's health. We can be ashamed. Also, security checks are required by the SOA, for officials of state, parliamentary representatives, the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the prime minister. Well, look, I don't mind security checks, I've been subject to security checks as a professional diplomat. I don't have any problem with that. But who will create power in this country? Intelligence? Are we going back to some former, well-known time when she was doing it maybe UDBA or I don't know, Soviet Intelligence? Or are we a democratic society where people choose their representatives? So if a parliamentary representative is elected by the people, he must honorably and ethically carry out his duty in the public interest. If he does not, he should be replaced, not because he is a member of an association. If the President of the Republic is elected in direct elections from the citizens of Croatia, who is it that can replace him? Citizens can say, but we didn't know. Then it's ethical that anyone running in this country and the public is informed of everything she thinks she should know before people vote for him. But the highlight of democracy is actually the decision of demos. The decision of the people, not the decision of the intelligence service, could anyone be the head of the state, government or parliamentary representative. We do not want to be re-negotiated as in the negotiations with the EU to determine the criteria of freedom. That, that level we have to respect if we want to be a democracy? Didn't we learn that ourselves through a bloody war in which we fought for freedom? But not just for the freedom of the aggressor that kills us. It's about freedom of mind. For freedom of action. For freedom of association. If it's based on the democratic principles we believe in. If based on the constitutional order of this country. So let's not spit so lightly on the loose. Those who have not sinned about the law, those who want to build a better society in this country, and that is why they have organized themselves. Do we have any case that any of the free builders have worked against our country's interests? If we do, we need to discuss it. I don't know about cases like that. So, colleagues and colleagues, once again, I came here today to raise my voice in the protection of freedom, freedom of people, freedom of thought of freedom of action. Especially if they are based on the principle of humanism, altruism and improvement for the human race and for our society. And so I ask you to think carefully about what we talked about here today and whether what we said really stands or we are influenced by the hysteria that was created in our public space. I believe when they look at us from European countries or our partners through the Atlantic, they look at the way we treat, interpret and understand freedom, because if there's no freedom, we're not, we're back in some time we don't want to go back to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187443	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187444	Thank you very much. When you were talking about freedom, about the right to association, about similar rights of free society, I didn't see anyone talking about it, and I very little know about the Masons and those organizations that you obviously know much more about and of course that in a democratic society, everything that is secret and mystical, people and the public are perceived as being perceived, but the fact that these main builders had too much influence on Gabric and I don't know, that they freely came to him, filmed by a state lawyer, it's a problem of the state's attorney, not freedom of association, not freedom of choice, is someone going to hang out in... or Peppermint, whether it's Tedeschi, Milanovic, these, they, Bajic, Vujčić, I absolutely don't care, here is the key problem of what the builder's boss and the box, the Mason was with the state's attorney and filmed them, it's crucial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187445	Thank you. Answer, colleague Klisovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187446	Thank you very much. It is not a problem that Jelenić is a member of the Mason, the problem is that if he caved under the pressure of anyone and compromised his work that must be done in the public interest, that is the problem. And being a Mason doesn't mean much. I've just explained, if you're part of any interest group, imagine financial interest groups, imagine the Exchange of Interest Group Borg and someone is asking you not to process someone like the Borg has not been processed, what's the difference? What's the difference? Guys, we need to replace the state's attorney the moment she works or doesn't do business in public and state interest. That's the reason for his shift, not a member of some association. And he must process the same member if there are legal reasons for the Borg association, informally named so-called Masons Association, Opus Dei Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187447	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Next replica, esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187448	Thank you. Here is a colleague from the SDP who performed here as a great defender of the masseuses in Croatia. I hope they get something because of it and what I would have given you, none of us for the exchange of a free idea, for free association, but this is about this organization hiding its goals, that it can't be de-polized freely because we don't know what its goal is, we don't know who its members are, we don't know what they're doing, they're hiding it. Such an organization can be dangerous for both the Croatian state and Croatian society, and I do not agree with you that it is okay for the attorney general to be a member of such an organization that resembles mob organisations because it has a bearing on it, so they must and must protect each other as members and it is absolutely inadmissible. And scary that you're defending the right of the attorney general to be a member of a mass organization. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] I'm calling the voters. to take a look at this statement, which one of the biggest Croatian parties stands for. [[Upadica Brkić: A colleague of Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187449	My colleague Grmoy, look at the time, my colleague, I would ask you to keep a close eye on your enthusiasm and in your passionate speech, to keep an eye on the rules that apply in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187450	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoi, I am not a value trader that I believe in as you are, I will defend the freedom of every citizen of Croatia to speak and think what it needs and what it wants and to join as long as it is not against our constitutional order and the values of democracy that we believe in. I've been much clearer here than you've interpreted and manipulated again and inviting voters to fall for these cheap populist manipulations, shame on you. It's against the interests of this people, such manipulation of people, twisting facts. Yes, I will defend not only the Mason but also those in Opus Dei and those in the name of the family, and those in the GONG, and those in any of those who act in the best interest of the principles of humanism, to develop our society, and I will not be a value trader, nor will I politically point at them in the way that you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187451	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague of Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187452	So, injury art. 238, I am no value trader, my principles and values are quite clear and I am also committed to freedom and you should explain the freedom of secret organizations and their goals you are pursuing. If we don't know, and we can't paralyze with these Masons, let the Masons come here on any round table, here you can arrange it for you or me, and then we'll paralyze about their ideas but they hide their ideas, goals and membership [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] And you're defending it and that's what's scandalous. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187453	Comrade Thunderbolt, I just warned you to watch your time. ... Comrade Bull, let me finish, so... In 238 he does not speak of any merchants or of trade, you have misused the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. In 239, I give you a warning, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been harmed, and please don't abuse that institute. [[I don't understand.]] Here you are, colleague Klisovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187454	Comrade Thunderbolt, I just warned you to watch your time. ... Comrade Bull, let me finish, so... In 238 he does not speak of any merchants or of trade, you have misused the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. In 239, I give you a warning, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been harmed, and please don't abuse that institute. [[I don't understand.]] Here you are, colleague Klisovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187455	Thank you. Dear colleague Klisović...... Col. Grumo, please, dear colleague Klisovic, I do not consider that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and please do not abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. In 239, I give you a warning. [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic is not present. ... Did you bring your application card? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Bulj, on behalf of the club MOST of independent lists, finally, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187456	Thank you very much. Here we are today in this debate, Your Honor, the minister left a moment ago, this is a significant debate, essentially, about the replacement of a state attorney. His resignation which was but we saw him here in this debate, there were various opinions, looking at certain things, there was even an attempt to stick to someone that was not for freedom like Mr. Klisovic told us from MOST, I was also fighting for this freedom and I felt the need to continue to fight for freedom but not for secret organizations and their interests that led to the edge of Croatian society, not for organizations that are funded by who knows where, but I have no problem nor did I explore the Mason or any other, I have never dealt with that problem because this mystic of theirs that remains in the public, I said that it could be a reflection on the public, this mysticism, the way of choice, but you were saying about it, but you guys were putting the label here that we all have to be ashamed that we are attacking that man that he is mass. So in this case, you said someone was attacking someone who was a Mason. That's not the problem, but the Masons had too much influence on the state's attorney they put over the system. So the state's attorney is a masseuse, he admitted it and became a masseuse and he also took the state's attorney's office and they had influence because I'm the builder's boss Gabric said he was with the state's attorney, he recorded it, and it was proven that the overinfluence of these interest groups was no matter what it was called in this case, the Masons. It's no threat to freedom, the right to association, nor has anyone here mentioned but the mysticity of those as they say, respected, wealthy people,...... Their rites are not known to me, colleague, I am not... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Their rituals I don't know what they're doing, what they look like, but all I know is that they're boasting and the state's attorney said that he's too proud of what it was that brought him in when he got the call to the Masonic lodge, that it took him away, and that's the fact that he feels good, that there are rich, rich, wealthy, the smartest, the best, the most intelligent people within society, and they're being received by special processes. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I don't have anything to do with them, although I am, and I can declare myself the boss of the lodge in my Sudacre the master builder, we have all the mysteries, we have everything, so no problem with the merger that we function in the same way. In the end, I would just say that the biggest problem is that the State's Attorneys and all the state's attorneys have not done the work that should have been done and that's respected secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, which is corrupt and criminals still walk freely in the state. I'm going to say one more time, the State Attorney's Office who hasn't solved the key problems of war, war profit, I've mentioned that problem and there are, robbery firms, companies, where people have created good, so the State's Attorney's office hasn't done its job. I'm not saying this personally that I'm fighting corruption now, I personally filed a criminal application for new weapons for a company owned by the Tedeschi family. So it's not simple, it's not simple, it might be easier to go to Imotski Arsen Bauk and get down against the masquerade criminal charges but against Emil Tedeschko or before Todorovic, I've raised up, I have no problem with Vujčić, but it threatens you, it threatens me, of course it's going to be courage now, so I might say, here I was earlier, today to propose an example of Arsena bauk for a state attorney because he has shown himself bravely in his move around Imotski with mascara, a state lawyer for mascara, can Nenad Stazic because he is a brave state attorney for '45. And he's going to do it because he's calling for it not to be done, so let's see who else needs to be killed, we can find all kinds of criteria. Mr. Beljak said the UDBA didn't kill enough, he'll be the UDBA attorney,... For immigration, I'm sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So we can find 1001 reasons, but the state's attorney must be a pillar of persecution and protection of public interest, this was not an example in Croatia and Mr Jelenić and these have not done their job before, I have an example of myself. Therefore, in this case, the state's attorney should have left a long time ago and we need to think about the government or someone future, in which way we choose state lawyers to work professionally and in the protection of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187457	I thank my esteemed colleague. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr. Christian Turkalj's esteemed secretary of state for the explanation of the proposal. We'll vote this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-26-0.u187458	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Drazen Jelenic as chief of state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution of Drazen Jelenic's duties as chief of state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 103 votes are for and 1 abstentions and 2 against decisions taken in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're on our way to work. The Financial and State Budget Committee has proposed the basis of Article 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a unification of the debate on the following two points: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Transfer Agreements and Unite of Contributions to the Unique Rehabilitation Fund, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 842, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 843 Do we agree with such a decision? Does anyone mind? If we agree, that's what we'll do. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is a respected Zdravko Zrinašić State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
