ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203459	And now we can move on to our first point today, and this is the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor, the Proposer is the Advocate General. 30. Law on the Attorney General and Art. 36. Law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered its opinion, the Ombudsman delivered a new Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman in line with the remarks of the Government that you also received. Does the attorney general want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Attorney General Laura Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, you've actually already said almost everything I should have said, so this Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor of the Police. Article 2 Law on the Attorney General and Art. Art. Article 36(1) Law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. It shall add, in accordance with the other mandates and the institution or the office of the Ombudsman, the protection of applicants of irregularities as set out in the other services which are now in the office, the tasks of the service shall be determined, the conduct of individual reports of irregularities in the work for which the Ombudsman is responsible, the means of submitting the application and the submission of the report to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the current methodology. All proposals as you have said, following the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution submitted by the Government in relation to amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, have been included, accepted and are now an integral part of this Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure and I propose to the Croatian Parliament to confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203461	Thank you very much, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Yes, we have one replica, Honorable representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203462	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. You have sent these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman to the Croatian Parliament on 30 September and then the Government has given you a draft opinion within a month on these amendments and additions, and in that opinion has actually listed a few things that I may list in my individual debate, but I am interested in how to be an excellent lawyer, because in the 2018 report where you make recommendations to all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and a number of lawyers working in the Office of the Public Attorney may actually be able to make such mistakes, in fact, such a diletarian job that you sent to the Croatian Assembly? Here, so I'm wondering for a second, was it one of these little bits through this, or did you actually not refer enough to a Colloquial called the whistle-sniffing law you were just talking about? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203463	The esteemed attorney general, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203464	I am not sure exactly how to answer your question because you refer to the dilettant work of colleagues and colleagues who work in the institution of the occupier, yet I have to stand in their call of defence, although it is not necessary, in the office each of them is working for their field of work, of course we are always welcome with all the support and assistance, and so as the nomtechmen are concerned with the competent offices and the Government and the Assembly, and we are happy to accept any situation in which we can improve our work, but please, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, in front of the office which is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian Parliament is the very Croatian Parliament is supporting these colleagues and colleagues and the whole team in the Office of the Public Ombudsman, here is indeed extremely difficult, especially in these circumstances and the work that work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203465	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203466	Thank you very much. Comrades and colleagues, respected citizens, distinguished attorneys, distinguished representative of the government. People who are whistles, applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia are marginalised, unjustly convicted, can also be cited and punished instead of being rewarded and not only in matters of state services, state-owned companies that have been robbed, devastated created fear and mistrust of people in the judicial system and institutions. This is one about the fact, I can give you an example that is not so old, which was warned by a Croatian diplomat, Mr Sabelak, who spoke about corruption and nepotism at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what was happening and man brought forth, means the truth in front of the Croatian public by respecting all the standards and procedures where he informed about the spending of funds non-transparently and of the man to be rewarded by him was punished. He is punished no matter what he has his children, what a career diplomat is, what he behaves both patriotically and humanly. In this way we see that people simply do not, that our citizens create mistrust, and mainly in the judiciary. So any shift that we're bringing on paper, and mostly so that there won't be a dead letter on paper, should protect people reporting irregularities. We do, and we remember the INA problem. For example, he was strong, it's quite significant, it's Mrs. and Vesna Balenovic, who has warned for years about what is happening, how money is drawn from the INA. However, this person was also persecuted. And so we have countless examples, we have examples in all segments of society, in the media space towards journalists, in public services to officials where instead of rewarding these people and encouraging them to point to corruption, nepotism, they are actually being punished. First of all, this high house and we parliamentary deputies, here's the end of the mandate, there's been a lot of talk about it from all the political, all the political positions. However, it is a fact that very small shifts in the Republic of Croatia. One of the main reasons why 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, which is why we have 6% of the foreign credits, is that this is how the institutions acted and what clientism is, nepotism has essentially led to such a situation that people have created mistrust in institutions and now our citizens live in other countries and unfortunately send money to the Republic of Croatia from abroad. And so before this crown of crisis, we had this feeling. There was a picture of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. And it's good that economic growth, but this growth is essentially created that those who have evicted, who are the most qualitative in the Republic of people of all levels from workers to high intellectuals, people who do their jobs, professors, are evicted and imagine 18 billion kunas annually, those people who could create new values in the Republic of Croatia are out there, and that's most because people have created mistrust in the system, and those who have tried to point out irregularities, robbery in privatisation, what was happening in the Republic, what is not, what caused 2/3 of the Republic, that they have emigrated, in fact not to marginalise them, but to terrorize them and endanger their existence. Damir Sablak is a Croatian diplomat, let's say, recently the most exposed example. The man who pointed out what was happening in the institutions today neither Andrej Plenkovic nor Gordan Jandrokovic, all those who were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs absolutely did anything to protect this man but rather they in their inaction essentially encourage corruption and clientism to continue. And I think at this point this bill will have an effect if the Rules of Procedure are respected if the laws are respected. But mostly it's this dead letter on paper. A number of people reporting irregularities indicated non-transparentity. So today in the Republic of Croatia, those who point out simply to them as people who are being isolated as individual cases, as errors in the system, are essentially heroes of this time, they risk their committee to point out what is happening in society. So today when we look at it we have yes, we have results that in the Republic all milk money that goes out. Many people pointed out, our citizens, to problems, such as financing renewable energy sources. It's a case of a wind power plant where billions of kunas go into foreign pockets while we with solars can solve that problem. So our energy poverty of our families, our independent families. However, it continues to go into foreign pockets a billion kuna a year. The same case happened to you with the banks. Banks a year in RH 4 billion kuna...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203467	My colleague Bulj, but I'm sorry to interrupt, but really wind power plants, everything you're mostly saying has nothing to do with the Attorney General's office, the wind power plants really have nothing to do with it. Please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203468	But the subject is the notifier. I can list all the applicants. So, the notifier...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203469	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203470	That the Rules of Procedure where it makes it easier for applicants to explain it, he said in his conversation, you did not listen to it. I'd love it if you'd sit on this chair and listen to what the attorney general has been talking about, which is changing in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are about applicants of irregularities, you confirm, here if you can't answer To protect the notifier? [[Clip intrusion: A new application service is being established]] And please, this is the last time you've done this to me is because this isn't your nephew or your mother's. Reporters who warned about your robberies, those who warned about the robberies...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203471	Don't do it, pal Bulj. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203472	Mr. Sabelak warned of yours, Mr. Sabelak warned as a notifier, and this law essentially...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203473	My colleague Bulj, I am the foundation of the article. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. For the purposes of Article 240(2), the following definitions shall apply: I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. No, you said I stole it, that's what you said, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203474	You stole the right words from me, and I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203475	No, you said I stole something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203476	And you don't have the right to think, I didn't say you stole, but you stole the freedom of word to talk about the subject. I'm talking about the topic that the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203477	You said, I know what you said and shame on you might be about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203478	...is not protecting the applicants. I, I must be ashamed to talk about the subject. What am I talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203479	That's right, not about what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203480	Renewable energy sources, notifier banks, applicants who indicated that we import money, import food products 3 billion kunas and protect our agriculture, indicators, all who pointed out were punished, by Mrs Balenovic, Mr Sabelak about the problem in INI and you have no right to my opinion, expression and appraisal of the applicants and the results of not protecting our people, which means applicants of illegality. I didn't tell anyone, I said the system doesn't work and it doesn't protect those people. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the system does not protect a man who is a whistler, a notifier, and this rule of law changes that part and that's what the attorney general said in her report. I don't see any reason to stop me when I'm talking about applicants and amending the Rules of Procedure on Irregularity and amending Rules of Procedure. Not a single sentence was out of it. I was just talking about segments of society and what's going on because marginalized, persecuted applicants of irregularities in all spheres. From media spheres, from media to economic, in all spheres. And I absolutely didn't step away from the subject. We are talking about damage to society in terms of corruption, clientelism of those who report these phenomena in society. And I don't see any reason to be reminded of me and to remember me, that I was saying something off topic, I was exactly sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Amendment to the Rules of Procedure. [[You're out of time.]] I'd like to ask you to at least apologize in the end to the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203481	Shame on you, if you were very decent, but you don't know what that word means, you'd apologize to me for what you said. Dear Representative Lovrinovic is probably looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203482	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly on behalf of the Club Change Croatia, Live Wall I demand a break of at least 5 minutes to consult on this topic. Proposed by a representative of a HDZ representative who called this bill a dilettante clock, the term was not used yesterday when the election of the main state attorney was being discussed, it is not dilentism, it was directed itself. So they privatize the DORH, they want their DORH, their judiciary, everything you want. I'm sorry that you've come this far to represent Bulja, who may have been clumsy, but I wouldn't want to believe that you'd want to shut this debate down today, too. Let us talk. That's why I'm looking for a break. Why? Well to me, I get a flood of memos through social networks, mail, people feel threatened, they don't know who to write to. The Croatian judiciary is increasingly calling the wrong courts, they feel helpless. HRT produces 100,000 performers every year they do not know who will protect them. I think that e-mails and mailboxes are full of public defenders, that people don't know what to do anymore. We can't live in a country where the same law isn't the same for everyone. We can't live in a country where some people can never be convicted, they always get disputes, they never lose. That's why Croatian citizens are moving out. Dear citizens, if you are looking at us today in this assembly, I invite you to tear this up, this weed that destroys us. Give support to the people who are fighting for you, to get out of this assembly finally those who want to order the judiciary against us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203483	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break and I'll see you at 9:00 and 58. [[It's 9:00.53.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:58 AM]] Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are going back and next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Marko Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203485	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I also welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the attorney general. Before us today is the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman who is to confirm HS in accordance with the provisions of Art. The 30th century. Law on the Attorney General and Art. The 36th century. The law on the protection of applicants of irregularities has been lodged by the Advocate General by its act of 26 September 2019. The Rules of Procedure shall be a normative act surrounding the normative arrangement of the institution of the Advocate General. It is the Rules of Procedure on the Amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General, which is amended with the aim of harmonising the internal structure of the Ombudsman's office with the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. Let us remind ourselves that it is in 2018 and 2019. in this assembly was also a political debate on the regulation of the position of applicants of irregularities, and the work on drawing up a draft law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. Although, to date, the Republic of Croatia has largely developed its legal framework to prevent corruption, the adoption of a separate Law on the Protection of So-called ‘. A whistle in line with European and international standards is a necessary component of the creation and effective and comprehensive mechanism of the fight against crime, corruption and irregularities. In accordance with the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularities, which entered into force on 1 July 2019, the institution of the Ombudsman has become the competent authority for external reporting, which, according to its jurisdiction and competences and capabilities, will be adequate for the adequate reception and processing of applications, and the provision of protection to applicants. The intensity of the law was the unification of legal standards and their protection in a special law. It is a comprehensive legal framework that regulates and further protects persons who refer to the application to various irregularities. Namely, as I said, before this law was passed, the protection of applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia was partially regulated in several laws. Some of them are the Penal Code, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on Labour, the Law on Trade, the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Information and others. For the first time, however, this law systematises and detailedly regulates problems related exclusively to applicants of irregularities and protects them from sanctions against employers that would be linked to the application. It closely regulates the protection of people who report corruption, but is extended to other irregularities and violations of laws related to the unconscious management of public goods, public funds and EU funds. In addition to the already existing services in the internal structure of the office, so this law and today this Rules of Procedure, the Office for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularities is being established as one of the internal establishment units responsible for the conduct of the affairs of certain areas of work and the part-round of the Ombudsman. I must stress here as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System that yesterday at the Committee meeting we had this Rules of Procedure as one and only point and in the debate, so we mentioned this Rules of Procedure and asked the Advocate General to adopt the opinion of the Government in which they were highlighted and numbered, therefore irregularities, i.e. largely non-compliance in the normative, so they express this legal act. After agreeing with nomotechnics and acceptances, therefore the proposed amendments in the government's opinion, during yesterday, so in the afternoon we also received the final text of this Rules of Procedure. It is important to stress that the draft law and the adoption of the laws by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this assembly of parliament have made a major step in protecting the applicant of irregularities. Once again, we have sent a clear message that corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia do not have and need not be, that such actions and such phenomena in society should be announced and that persons who are able to gain courage and strength and report such irregularities will have adequate legal protection. I must also point out that colleagues who had previously appeared in their discussions mentioned that this Rules of Procedure had protected someone. No, I don't. This Rules of Procedure protects no one, is protected by the law that adopted this HS in this assembly. Following, therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in, the next and the opinion of the Government, the HDZ Representatives Club will give its consent to such a text of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203486	Thank you very much. The following should be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, which should have been spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, who is not, is losing his right to speak, and the next will be the SDP's Club of Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Karolina Leaković will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the rules of the regiment, the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General who are on the HS agenda today, the SDP Club will support. We welcome the adoption of amendments that will improve the organisation and procedure of an institution that has been in charge since 1.7.2019. in accordance with the law mentioned above, the new term of office within the meaning of the authority responsible for the external reporting of irregularities. The Advocate General shall, upon receipt of the application of irregularities and shall forward them to the authorities authorised to act and shall examine individual applications in order to take the actions necessary under his jurisdiction to protect the rights of the notifiers with external reporting and public disclosure, which shall also be of great importance. The law provides for internal reporting of irregularities, which implies detecting irregularities to an employer who is considered to be public authorities and a natural or legal person in whom the applicant of irregularities carries out tasks. Employers who employ at least 50 persons are also obliged to establish a system of internal reporting irregularities accordingly to appoint a confidential person for internal reporting and its alternate, to ensure the protection of applicants against adverse consequences, to keep the information received in the application from unauthorised disclosure and to take further measures to remove identified irregularities. The real question is whether we have been able to make a move since the entry into force of this law, since employers had a certain period during which they had to adapt to the provisions of this law or in which they had to apply them. In order to ensure quality safety of whistles, it is necessary that the system enables safe reporting of irregularities, effective mechanisms to examine the reporting of irregularities and their removal and sanctioning and, of course, the protection of whistles themselves from harmful actions which may be exposed to the application. It is therefore important to provide funds for the implementation of the law, but also for what is particularly important and what is emphasized by the Advocate General in his report last year, which was adopted in HS, and for the education of all groups that will apply the law from employers, workers to judges and prosecutors. All of this, as I said, was warned by the Ombudsman in her report to the Assembly, but it seems to me that, unfortunately, we will not have a chance to discuss it, so in this context, I would like to point out the problems the institution has faced over the past ten months, how much law is in force or how much is the body responsible for the external reporting of irregularities. I will repeat that several channels for reporting, internal, externally extremely important public disclosure of irregularities, there are then judicial protection, damage compensation and what is also important to protect the identity and confidentiality of applicants of irregularities. Therefore, according to this, applicants may report irregularities defined as violations of the law and other rules, unwitting management of public goods, public funds and EU funds that pose a threat to public interest, and are linked to the conduct of business with the employer. The Advocate-General warns that during the past and various institutions and employers and citizens themselves have addressed her office in order to request interpretation of the provisions or to request advice regarding the handling, to whom to report, what to report, what procedure and what then happens, which is at all the role of the Ombudsman's institution when it comes to this law. And many questions are, of course, still unanswered, because these reporting mechanisms have yet to be stalked in some way. The real question is whether potential applicants know irregularities that they can even apply and address the occupier and what happens later on with their application. As I have already said in accordance with the provisions of this law, employers have had a certain period of 6 months to establish this internal mechanism for reporting irregularities, but it seems to me that it is far more important than this internal mechanism to ensure both the possibility and opportunity of public disclosure, of course through free media, but also to strengthen the institution of the attorney general. I hope this will happen when the amendments to this Rules of Procedure come into effect, because the whole thing is relatively fresh, and with education, public information and even awareness of the existence of this significant, I would also say the anti-corruption mechanism needs to be worked even more strongly. I think it is important to point out that by the entry into force of this law, the attorney general has received a new very complex mandate, it includes substantial communication with other bodies such as the DORH, the State Inspectorate, the local and regional self-government units, and the Ombudsman herself warns that communication with the applicants itself is also extremely complex, very sensitive because their identity must be protected, and those who report irregularities naturally go through a very difficult period in the working environment, and this is often negatively reflected in their private and family relations. And that is why I think it is important to stress that it is necessary to strengthen both the financial and the staff and the organisation institution of the Ombudsman's staff, because this is also the framework for the exercise of human rights and anti-corruption activities as a whole. In this term, the HDZ government has in many cases fought against independent institutions, and if it is tried at the beginning of this debate it will happen today, there will be no big difference. So far, the attorney general has not been an exception, so there have been many objections to its behaviour, and the conduct of this independent authority of the HS is absolutely in line with all the laws and provisions we insist on as SDP. We support what the attorney general is doing in terms of seeking answers, let's say the police are treating refugees, we support its clear determination in relation to hate speech or the emphasis on Ustasha signs and greetings. However, what concerns is that in the part of the public, especially in the part of the institutions and the top political authorities. That, fortunately, changed in political change in Pantovac, so many ruling actors do not welcome this kind of questioning. The impression is that the work of this independent institution during the term of this Government has been tried and tried in all ways to be diminished and relativated, we must not allow this either in the case of the Ombudsman, nor in the case of other lawyers, nor in the case of other independent institutions that account for the Croatian Parliament, and through the Croatian Assembly, of course, Croatian citizens and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203488	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203489	Dearly respected representatives of the Public Attorney's Office, I especially address you and welcome you. We'll probably still be here for a few days in this assembly and I'm trying to send these most important messages in this time that's left until the election. When I came to this assembly 3.5 years ago, dear citizens, I was full of hope that we could change the key things that stand in the way of a quieter, better, happier life and for the future of our children. However, here on the spot I realized with my eyes that on the first line of the defence of Croatia are people, most of the people who are her biggest problem. Today we are discussing a proposal for a Law on Public Defence or a proposal for people who report crime, corruption in their businesses, environments to protect themselves in the best possible way and Party Change Croatia will support this proposal. However, you have seen dear citizens who first reported to be replicating the attorney general. The HDZ representative who attacked her and said she brought here a dilettaneal, dilettane proposal. That same one yesterday, it wasn't heard of him here when, when we discussed the state's, their state's attorney's proposal, the head of the state's attorney, the key to defending the rights, the order, which should defend us all. We didn't have a choice yesterday because she was set up. I warned yesterday that it would be crucial for her election to be influenced by several MPs that the DORH is questioning and persecuting. There was more irony and tragedy for a country, one people than that happening to him? This part of Croatia, the foundation of the Croatian state and the society that was firm, was to be firm, someone put clay in place overnight. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Croatian judiciary is increasingly referred to as a mistrial. It is no wonder that only non-members or party sympathisers who are in power are prosecuted and investigated. It is no wonder that those who have done terrible things, violated, broke the law, moved freely or easily crossed the border to a reserve position in BiH. That's why we've got some things to do from the start, and it's about justice. I thought when I came to this assembly, as an economist, that the most important economic policy was, you know, having a good solution to raise GDP, production, employment, but dear citizens until we deal with corruption there's nothing we can do about it, but nothing at all. They hold everything in their hands, you can't hire a cleaning lady today if you don't have any connection to those who rule. That's what I'm saying now, I'm actually passing on what you citizens write to me every day more and more and I support you, I'm here your language, I want to protect your interest. However, dear citizens, I also read from your memo that you feel powerless, saying that you individually have no value in your voice because these others are setting it up, doing it, etc., but respected citizens on election day are each of us emperors. Paper, pen, and you. That day we are the ones who decide. The most important thing is the decision on justice. There's nothing you can do without. Therefore, the first point of the Party's fight is to change Croatia's anti-corruption. Why is the judiciary ineffective? Well, as we see first because it's an intolerable influence of politics on him. What we have 300 presidents of the courts in Croatia who, the president, have brought such meaning rules that they should not be tried, that they do not lead the disputes, but there are about 300 of their assistants or deputies. It's about 600 people who don't practically work. But things aren't black white, I welcome from this place all those honest, working judges doing their job. We will build on them a new foundation of one new Croatia, after the election, and with these others, I will use the ugly word, but I will clean it up. The weed until we clean up in the field can't grow wheat, that's basic human logic. So we're gonna cut these 300 presidents, they're gonna work, so secretaries, then cars, so on and so forth. What else do we do? We will release all courts, from this first-degree, supreme, constitutional, banal disputes, small-value disputes. Why? Because this system wants, he's burying the courts on purpose, if someone's parked wrongly and slowed it down, if it's done by HRT, which every year the 100,000 perks produce, and he's practically creating that misery, most of it by telecom operators, we're going to remove it. And the whistles that we're talking about, about their protection, they have to get the highest level of protection. For them must be built, as for women there are safe houses, there must be a safe house for whistlers. These heroes of Croatian society who, instead of becoming heroes, are being fired, they are being persecuted. Let's just remember these brave men, from Mrs. Balenovic, from Mr Sablek at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But let's remember Dr. Ante Samodol, who worked in Croatian, was the director of HANFA, the brave man who had then ordered Agrokor to make a public offer for Belje, and if Agrokor had done so today, two years ago, would not have failed my people, would not have failed. It was also derailed by former Minister Linic and Prime Minister Kosor, who was in a frenzy. So he went against the system, the system. We don't have time for respected citizens anymore. We can't watch this anymore. Most people choose an option to pick things up and go to a more orderly state. If we all continue to do so, there will be only those who do not have the money for the bus or who do not have the strength to reach it at all because they are too old. We must defeat our fear. Dear citizens, I want to tell you from this place because I've studied every inch of this assembly and the human psyche sitting here. If you knew how scared they are, how weak they are, if you knew how pompous they are, and especially if you knew how afraid they are of these choices, you wouldn't believe me, you probably don't believe what I'm saying right now. They're weak people, they're only in the herds strong, in the herd. But dear citizens, we, no one can beat us because citizens in the election can do anything. Let's rip that weed off, from the Croatian fields that are killing us. Let us strength ourselves to give the future, the question of the future of our children because there has never been more laws in the Republic of Croatia, and never weaker and worse judiciary and never more injustice. He only expected that since the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of the EU, here are the first 6 months that Prime Minister Plenkovic will use everything, all his energy to at least use EU institutions in the fight against corruption. None of that, my dear citizens. He even in the midst of an epidemic, he has his own nebulous plans, malts not that he is the new Shuman, to spread the EU to the Balkans and down, down below. Therefore, he does not care about his country, does not care about his corrupt country. In that sense, we must make a major adjustment to the Republic of Croatia. I've said some things since the beginning. I'm full of optimism because I know it's all in the hands of the citizens. Dear citizens, let's finally understand that and change the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203490	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics in the name of the respected representative Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203491	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the Law amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of a mere defender, and this is one of those moments in which we meet with the very being of our country. We face the fact that our country is not a prophane but a sacral state. It is sacral because there are those who feel that they can do wrong by their will and that nothing will happen to them. The sad truth is that we have the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity instead of not happening at all. It is a sad fact that the truth arises from it, which is that the applicants of irregularities are faced with the wrath of this sacral state, a non-profan state, a state that does not rest on a people understood as a community of equal citizens, but rests on elites who believe that they can do whatever they want with the state. It's the fact that we're facing and it's the hysterical peak of cannibalism that we find ourselves in, is that each of the applicants of irregularities faced this hysterical cannibalism. Why did no one today mention the first name to report an irregularity? And that's Ankica Leprechaun. Because we look at the state in a sacral way, and the Tudjman family in a divine way. Ankica Lepoj was the one who first showed what it means to be a citizen and what it means to descalise a country that should be a prophane, a state that needs to be democratic, a state that needs to rest on equality and on the diversity of citizens. This is what applicants of irregularities do. They know that they will face the anger of institutions that do not function because they serve solely for the purposes of adjudicating these deities and eradicating their criminal traces. But there is also another institution, there are also other people who are fighting for the pro-fiction concept of democracy and for the state of openness and equality of citizens. It's just the attorney general's office. This, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure face us to see in the applicants irregularities a human person who has been wounded by our inability to face, both as advocates and as politicians and as citizens, a deeply corrupt concept of a state that is not, a state that is completely sacralized to be a cannibal, a state that is completely committed to such hysterical and hysterical spills, a cannibalist spill because each of them felt from the applicant of irregularities, felt what it means to be lonely and left by institutions. The Public Attorney's Office is the first institution to restore their trust in the democratic state, which is why the Public Attorney's Office is faced with the same cannibalism of the institutions, which is why they are being denied in work, which is why they are called as if they are anal, that they are directed against the state, that they do not appreciate what they should appreciate. There is nothing in this country to be valued except for citizens, every citizen. A country where there is someone in particular to be valued is not a state but a space within which cannibalism takes place, a place where there is a painful experience of the absence of democracy and the painful experience of the disappearance of a human character. As a colleague before me spoke to me about his experiences in the work of the Parliament for three and a half years, I can tell you that out of my experience this cannibalism is being spent by the most ignorant. Those who represent the so-called. nationalist thesis, nationalistic views of the state because they think the state is theirs, they keep asking the question, whose is this state. Yours isn't if you don't know what the state is. The state belongs to the citizens or the people. Let us begin to use this concept of people as it is given the meaning of the community of equal citizens who rest on diversity, that is the people. The people are not what was nationalized to be national, to be nationalist, the people are the ones who want protection that wants to live in a place where there are no irregularities, in which there is legality, and in which if we talk about holiness, the only thing that is sacred is a crowd, a multitude of citizens. Not the one who's the world, the one we can't mention, but the one who's the crowd. Every single person is a world because he is a citizen in a democratic state in a country that is profan. In the nationalist state of unskilled people, who have been expressing this Marxist Leninist concept of the state in particular in recent weeks, especially with some MPs. Now he was a colleague of Glasovic, so he went to his Marxist Leninist position in his Marxist Leninist notion of the state, the general is Marxism and Leninism because he believes that the state in which the war is constantly taking place and in which someone should be constantly defeated. It's not in the state, it's a Marxist concept where there's a class of government and a class of government. It's not in the democratic state, it's all leftovers and dusty remains of the Marxist Leninist concept of a state that sacralises the state and some elites, there's no such thing. In our democratic state, the only ones who can be sacral are numerous, each individual citizen. And let's look at what we've been doing to those citizens who have been desacralized from Ankica Lepoway to this day? We haunt them, leave them out of work. When they write a book as Ankica Lepoy, there's no network of bookstores to sell that book. Why isn't that real? Well, because you're asking a question whose country this is. As long as we ask the question of whose country this is, we realize that this country doesn't belong to anyone, because it's not a state. This question certainly doesn't ask the civil defender's office and from this place possible as my last speech in the House, I thank the attorney general for not allowing, not allowing and resisting that anyone is asking a question, whose state is but persistently speaking, the state is yours and belongs to all citizens. There's no closure of the state, it's an opening. There is the closure of institutions, because the state is transformed into a space where hysterical orgy will continue to take place, the savagery of those who have cannibalistic properties, who join together to kill each other and eat, which you will see, and in these elections what coalitions will be made and after the elections that coalitions will be made. Who's threatening, who's teaming up? All those who have put themselves at risk and now act on the historic stage just as a cannibalist no one, and they cannot create a state. That's the kind of country that needs to be defended. The Public Attorney's Office and the applicants of irregularities are nothing more than people who realize that it is a people, that it is a community of equal citizens. Equal citizens can only be different, diversity can only be in equality, everything else is persecution and cannibalism. As long as we have applicants of irregularities to protect against institutions and elites, we are nothing but a cannibalistic creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203492	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative and Vice-President of this High House Furio Radin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I feel a little uncomfortable after all these speeches because actually my intention was just to say that I agree with these changes, and then so much rhetoric actually, that we understand and agree, puts me in an awkward position. Actually, what's this about? A new service is being set up here, and it is a service for the protection of applicants of irregularities within the Office of the People's Republic, the Advocate General. And that actually means one technical change in the attorney general's office. Now, that would be so, without being done, and that's why I'm saying that so much rhetoric puts me in an awkward position because I wasn't getting ready for such rhetoric, but only on a word or government has nothing to do with these changes, and it's unnecessary to say that if the attorney general actually proposes these changes that the National Minority Club would agree with that because there's one long history of cooperation with the attorney general. But I'm saying, I understand that rhetoric that isn't pre-election, and there were MPs here who spoke from the heart, and not for practical reasons of pre-election propaganda to say so, I understand that rhetoric because this is about something very important. It is a technical change, but what's not technically is the reason for this, these new services, what she's going to have to do. It will have to receive complaints from those citizens who were not protected by law when reporting irregularities at work. She's going to have to deal with the application because the attorney general knows that there will be no only irregularities at work, but also those who speak, who will report to corruption and you will report. And corruption is a big word, and corruption is the pain of this society and democracy. And when I talk to this society I don't talk about Croatian society, I speak far beyond. Democracy is not a protection against corruption, and not even a democracy that is explicitly understood, which says on the first page that is usually written on the first page of a book on democracy that has about 600 pages, is it, and the first one says it is the rule of the majority, right? So when there's 100 of us, if 51 says it's like this, right, then that's enough reason to make a decision and no one can tell us we weren't democratic. But in the other 599 pages of that book, there are exceptions, not only exceptions but also ways to do so. And ways to protect that most of them, for example. in this case 49% because it's a lot, a lot of people and ways to protect and those who are small, even so small that they can't, that they can't influence. So democracy is not, rather a comparison between Leninism, Marxism in Leninism and Democracy has been made, I agree essentially with that, but then we should say what we mean by democracy. Democracy is what protects everyone, not most. And protecting everything is a huge job. In fact, protecting everything is a job that's almost impossible. It's possible in utopias, but it's impossible in a society that functions on the basis of today's legality of the functioning of society. So it's about a technical change that concerns real, essential things, the reasons. When we talk about corruption, when we talk about one third thing. So we're talking about corruption offenders, and the third thing is, the third thing is penitent, right? Of course, the penitent will not mostly contact the occupier, although it is not said because we are protecting it insufficiently all three categories. So the applicants and the irregularities and the penitents and the applicants of this corruption. Why do I say that? In my very long political career, I met people from the country of my home culture that we call it from Italy, which only because of one application, only because of one threat of red brigades, when they came to visit Croatia to the border was protected, for 20 years they were protected. You know how much it costs? So one threat never reached, 20 years 6 plus 6 in this case caribinere, so 12 carabiners were at the service of one man. With what we object to has the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the armor, with the armored car. I went a little wide myself, but let me just say that to those who are in danger of reporting irregularities, for those who are victims of corruption, they report it or those who are penitent, too, and also, they report to have a certain treatment, a certain protection in court proceedings. We act mostly sloppy and that's the problem that's essential. So the National Minority Club always protects the weaker. The attorney general also, in some moments of his work in a weaker way, and he knows how we reacted at times when, because of one, because of laws we disagree with, it's that it depends on the government's opinion, he knows when the government's opinion was, I don't remember whether negative or not, it was negative, right, I think... He knows how we reacted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So those who are the subject of control can't actually decide to actually decide and the controller in such a way that the controller, in fact, in that case the attorney general, or at the end of the line, the Parliament, is that, yes, to respond because they've put out some criticism. This coincides entirely with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure because even here those who report irregularities can actually be punished and no one can do anything. And the attorney general can also be punished, and in the future, we need to invent a method to be completely autonomous. Thank you. Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome the Attorney General, the Secretary of State. Today we have these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to welcome the fact that the Ombudsman has accepted the amendments or amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this Rules of Procedure. Amendments that now become an integral part of this proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, which have gone on to make much better the spirit of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity into this tool, which will be this service for the protection of applicants of irregularities within the Office of the Advocate General. Therefore, this primarily referred to the question of forwarding the application to authorised bodies, providing information to applicants on their rights and what is crucial and important to me, and not based on what my colleague Radin mentioned earlier, which is data protection, data protection, identity notifier protection and everything that should actually be the protection of one who is fighting corruption, who has courage and who has both the legal possibility and protection when it comes to reporting certain irregularities. And the fact that it is now included, I think it is good, and because of that, as Col. Simic said, the HDZ Club and then every single representative from our club will support such a proposal with such changes. I think it is important here to note that these changes have strengthened and given one better meaning to this tool, this Rules of Procedure, and then, of course, what we hope for, the good work of that service. Why? Because the law we passed seems to me in the middle of last year, somewhere in July is the one that needs an instrument for the state to better team up in this fight against, to a greater degree of transparency of public work, but also of course private businesses. When we look at all the theories of socially responsible business, ethical business, then the question of whistles, that is, the issue of the protection of applicants of irregularities, is one of the key tools that the state can open up legal protection mechanisms to prevent, firstly, and secondly, when there are irregularities, that we have those within the system, within the company itself, to see it, to report, to refuse to do an irregular, illegal, immoral action, and to be protected again. But it was also seen that not only was it not enough within the company itself, but one external application should be made available and this one will go to the attorney general. I think it's clear that the ideologically we have our differences, and we've never hesitated to make it public, but we're making an argument, but it's good that no one has any doubt that the attorney general will be some tool of the ruling party or the ruling majority, therefore, those who will go with such an external application know that on that side, there will be no consequences but on the contrary, that they will be protected. I think it was also the intensity of the law, to strengthen precisely such mechanisms because, as we have heard before, we are talking about democracy today. I think it's important at this very time when we're fighting this crisis and this pandemic, but in the background of that, and if you want, a global competition, whether totalitarian or authoritarian regimes are better at curbing that or Western democracy, some will say liberal democracy. In any case, free political institutions, democratic institutions. Of course, we want Croatia to develop in this direction, and we from this Christian democratic position want that very kind of democratic system to protect every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203496	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203497	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Stier, I am familiar with your views on the fight against corruption and clientelism in Croatian society. So, the law, so long as it's called the Whistle Act, that's what this government has proposed to the HS, and we voted it in seven months. When we talk about corruption, do not forget that we and within HS have another body, in fact a national council dealing with the monitoring of the corruption strategy itself, and there are a number of applicants who, either in writing, orally, in writing and in electronic form, provide us with their comments that we continue to forward to the competent authorities. What my colleague Radin used to say before you when he talked about corruption in our society, I want to say since you're a career diplomat and you've been in many countries, you know that no society is immune to corruption in less or, or, or even more, to those countries that we talk about, which are on Transparency International as Germany or as Denmark, when talking about non-corruption countries have large forms of corruption that may be less talked about than, rather than in our society. Of course corruption is an evil that needs to be eradicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203498	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203499	Thanks, buddy. You said well and you don't need to be in diplomacy, but, of course, my experience can confirm what you mentioned, corruption is one phenomenon that can't be attributed to just one country, only to one group, it's everywhere. But I would recall there perhaps the words of Lord Akton who said "authority corrupts, absolute power absolutely corrupts". So democracy is precisely the mechanism that will limit power, which will have a system of control to curb corruption, in order to curb one misuse of a public position for private interests. As much as we have this mechanism as you mentioned to combat conflicts of interest, today we talked about a mechanism, which is the protection of applicants of irregularities, but of course the work in, in the fight against corruption includes this part of the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203500	The next replicas of the respected representative Karoline Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203501	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Stier, you mentioned some ideological differences that exist between HDZ and the attorney general. Well, I didn't expect you to be looking at this action, the work of the attorney general and the attorney general compared to the ideological differences on the person who is now acting in that capacity and can, then, can you use someone who is ideologically close to you to subjugate or, as you said, use it as a tool in the hands of the ruling party. So, we in HS regardless of who we agree ideologically with, who is at the head of an independent institution, we need to look at the functioning of an independent institution in the context of the Constitution and the law, and not in the context of whether someone is closer to a political option, I don't actually know about Mrs. Vidovic, but it doesn't matter. So ideological differences and ideological interpretations should in no way affect your thinking and your assessment of the work of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203502	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203503	Thank you, dear colleague. On this very trail I was talking not about some ideological differences of the club representatives but about us for a long time and we know each other and we have really different ideological views and I just wanted to point out that despite what is important is the importance of the institutions. On that trail, it seems to me that your debate has been going on, or your question, and that's exactly the fact that we have to affirm here if we want to further develop our democratic system. So that's what I said and tried to explain, and I think that's important, that it's important that we can have in a democratic plural society different ideological views, that we can bring them out publicly, reasonedally, but of course we all have to work for the common good and respect the institutions of our democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203504	The following replicas of the respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203505	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, with your discussion, I might agree. The openness of public administration and transparency is something I personally agree with for at least the last 10 years and it is an excellent prevention of corruption. And when honesty and work in the public administration become valued, appreciated and protected, then we will know that we are on the right track and that we are going in the right direction, which you have pointed out. The D.A.'s office has given these changes one pain in that direction. I would say that this is one of the better tools, and in this sector we should welcome it as you have welcomed and welcomed these changes because every step that goes towards better openness, transparency and the protection of honesty in the public sector and work, I think it is something that deserves every praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203506	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203507	Thank you colleagues for these words that would encourage me, just to point out that there was also the will of this ruling majority and HDZ in this sense to establish such a service for the protection of applicants of irregularities and that there is such a mechanism of external application with the attorney general, therefore the will of this ruling majority to strengthen our democratic system, that it develops, that simply our country works better and better to protect the applicants of irregularities. In that sense, I think that your question also confirms that it is political will and HDZ, we have confirmed it or articulated it by passing the law in the middle of last year, and today with this Rules of Procedure it is going to be implemented and given an effective tool to the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203508	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, as in that debate on behalf of the SDP Club, I will stress my support for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Advocate General and the general work of this independent institution. I say we won't have a chance to discuss probably in this conference about your report for the past year, but since we are in one situation of health and then unfortunately economic crisis, I think it's important to stress that your institution has also pointed out that in these times of crisis it is particularly important to focus on the fact that human rights are actually respected and that no decisions, any decisions, whether it is about headquarters, whether it is about government, whether it is about decisions made by other bodies, should not remain such that, therefore, human rights are diminished, must not remain non-transparent and must not become the basis for in some way narrowing the rights that would last longer than this crisis period. In your report for the past year, you pointed out that for the first time in fact the most numerous complaints of citizens and citizens were on the state of the health system. And I think it's very important to talk about it right now, just a few days after the health system slowly returns to normal. You were in the last year, the report said in more than 5,000 cases, of which you had about 2,500 new items arrived and precisely among these new complaints were about the availability and quality of health care. In the past month and a half, we have witnessed both the expertise and the sacrifice and humanity of medical staff, or not health workers in the health system. A system which, despite the various less or more incompetent or competent ministers who led it despite never really the end of the planned and implemented health reform, we have been able to break down over the past 30 years. Fortunately, we have remained in some parts of the public health model from the former country, and it actually seems that we can also be based on this one, as we officially say, a favourable epidemiological image that we have today. However, we now face a double challenge or a double challenge in front of Croatian citizens is what is called a return to, therefore, normal in terms of the waiting list they are waiting for in hospitals whether they are talking about first checks, whether it is about checks. So you stated that the average waiting time or the average waiting time for the first review in the last year was 145 days, that would mean about 5 months. I think that in any case it is something that the health administration is now going to have to deal with, whether it is a current minister or one who is coming or coming after him, and it will actually be seen how much and how much trust will continue in the health system. You have warned that there are no teams of family medicine, no gynecologists, no pediatricians, we have been facing this problem lately, especially in the Zadar area. We will see how your report will actually be shown this year or year by the Croatian Parliament. If, by returning to normal in the Croatian health system, nothing really changes, so we continue to die of treatable diseases such as breast cancer or uterus cancer, then let's say that the health administration of this coronary crisis has learned nothing. For me, health and education are top political issues, and I believe that both health and education policies are one of the most important development policies and the issue of actually the strategic commitment of a country and human rights, which is naturally witnessed and the complaints that go to your office. So, I welcome, in any case, the efforts you make as an independent institution, I welcome your courage and the need to make public without furrying, without delay, regardless of the criticisms that come from the ruling party, and I am sure that in some next session your report will absolutely be accepted by the vast majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203510	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203511	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Leakovic, in your debate you have connected this law, these changes to this crisis and all the problems that occur in the system of health related to the coronary pandemic, and I think you have well connected it and pointed out the importance of reporting any irregularities that may occur, and this Rules of Procedure should also go in this direction, although it is a question of how much the Rules of Procedure can contribute if the Government has not provided sufficient resources for the work of this instrument to protect the whistles in the Ombudsman's office. The GRECO Council therefore also indicated that there are major problems in the crown of the pandemic from various corrupt risks in the health system, so I hope that at least symbolically what we are doing today, as well as the proposal that the SDP has put forward in the procedure for preventing the corona of profiting will contribute to the fact that in Croatia we are not in a situation that the poor, sick suffer from the profits that exist at this time in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203512	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203513	Yes, counterpart Jovanovic has been sent to parliament procedure, but whether anything will happen to his adoption is a big issue. And the State Inspectorate, led by, unfortunately, by a completely incompetent person, has certain powers to prevent the corona from profiting, in order to prevent this ferocity of prices especially when it comes to medical supplies and therefore about living foods. However, we can see that it is absolutely necessary to invest not only in independent institutions in this sense in how to protect or encourage those who have some knowledge of irregularities that without fear of this irregularity reporting, but also how it is necessary to ensure that, of course, media freedoms so that journalists without self-censorship or censorship can freely report exactly what can happen in this crown crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203514	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak, and the next one will be spoken individually by respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203515	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The esteemed attorney general, state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. Here in my five minutes I'm going to try to say a few things about this day-to-day thing. So, in my replica, what I said is I have to correct, I didn't say that people who work in the Public Attorney's Office are dilettants, but that this job, or this proposal that was sent to HS, is dilettant, although I may have exaggerated here, I can say that it's pretty sloppy because in my opinion, the government has also warned you of certain things in the preamble of this bill. Afterwards, the Government discussed the protection of irregularities in the applicant's irregularity in art. 21, so in that whole sequence, I don't count it here now, as in Art. The 10th century 2 and the regulation of the powers themselves, and the Government has proposed a new formulation of the Article. 4th amendment and addition to this Rules of Procedure, which you eventually accepted and made. But the government does not suggest that these amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman are not accepted, but rather that they, as such, are accepted with these amendments, as we will do. What I said about the office's work, thinking about the people of the lawyers, the experts who work there that this kind of thing shouldn't have happened and that this should have been given a little more attention. Why do I say that? Because, instead, here and colleague Leakovic spoke about your 2018 report and when you read this report for 2018 on 288 pages again, the government referred its opinion to the 37-page page where it tells you that the government respects the independence of the attorney general, but suggests that you refer to the data of state and public bodies, that certain topics are not presented and assessed in the context of state institutions' data. Now, that's my personal position, and what's reading this report of yours, let's say I can't take the impression, so you're overly concerned with the ideology of this report, there's a lot of what's connected to the worldview in this report that maybe shouldn't be, and even in one part when we're talking about irregular immigrants and what you're through activist associations that gave you some information "Are you Syrious" or some other showing the way the state's police bodies behave in this case, you had to refer to the MUP or I'm the minister saying that these things aren't true, but actually alludate as if we're a bandit country. What is also not good, which comes from the Office of the Public Prosecutor when you talk about hate crimes that are 25 in Croatia, and in fact it is carried to you by certain media in different international institutions. I'll tell you, let's say, at the annual session of the OSCE Assembly, there was talk of a report from the Republic of Croatia and hate crimes that are 25 until, for example, one of Germany has 7913, the Netherlands 3498, Belgium 875, Poland 886, Hungary 233 etc., etc. Because these are OSCE data. Now, when we see what you're writing and what the government is saying, we don't know who to trust now, the government or you because your report is important to a common state in society and the very changes in the social climate itself. And when you say this kind of data and you bring this kind of recommendation, you don't actually see the context of the time we live in, and then you ask yourself how much you're a public defender you work as an activist or how you work as an institution objectively because when you show certain things, then you put them at a level of mass phenomena that aren't. And I'm saying that diplomatic representations in the Republic of Croatia and other international organisations take your reports seriously and are used with it in their work, which I personally don't appreciate because when I hear such things, of course, I react to those international institutions, I don't think that's good. Now, when we talk about some selectivity, you say, in your report, I quote you on page 202 and paragraph 3 "The part of Croatia is situated on the drawn Ustasha In or the greeting "For home ready" and its short for home prepared and hooky crosses". I've been paying special attention to, say, coming from Split here to Zagreb to see how many such things are, unfortunately I haven't come across many of them, it seems to me to be just one thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203516	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203517	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, here we are together in this mandate through the work of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, trying to influence the fact that trust in the system is growing in Croatia, but I do not know how much we have succeeded in this. So the latest survey shows that in Croatia only 4% of citizens would report corruption, 4% of citizens would be whistles, even 96% would not. It is crucial that citizens have confidence in the system. Do you not think, however, that the pressure of rulings on independent institutions such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, such as the Ombudsman, contributes to even less trust in the system and think why they would report corruption when we will only have problems in the environment and thus any law that we have will not increase citizens' readiness to participate actively in the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203518	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203519	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Jovanovic. I also know what you're doing through the National Council, and I know that we don't get so many complaints from the citizens themselves, we pass them on ourselves, that's what I was saying in my replica, and my colleague Stier. I agree with that. Look, we're a society, we're a relatively young society that actually went from one system to another system, we're hit by a war of refugees, we still couldn't build institutions like that, let's just say countries in Central or Western Europe, actually what we're trying to do. I agree with you that some people, not enough consciousness in the Croatian society to report corruption. However, if we are selectively doing things and we do not have complete data, it is difficult to tell the border only because of certain media reports or certain personal animosities, however you will, in the bodies of the state or public authorities, when they apply to a particular institution, that they are relevant, that, as such, they can be processed if there is insufficient evidence. So, perception doesn't, and... Actually, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203520	The next replica is the esteemed representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203521	Yeah, I feel uncomfortable again 'cause if I knew we were going to talk about the attorney general's report, I'd be prepared to talk about the attorney general's report. Yes, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure and the formation of a new unit, normally we're going to talk about corruption, normally we're going to talk about what can happen to whistlers or, but we're talking about ideological differences and we're talking about a report that's not the subject of today's debate, and I need to tell you Mr. Babic that I agree far more with Mr. Stier when he says that ideological differences shouldn't be obstacles to co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203522	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203523	Dear President of HS, thank you. So, dear colleague Radin. Law on the Advocate General in Art. 2 clearly says that the Ombudsman deals with the protection, respect for human rights and freedoms bound and established by the Constitution, laws and international laws. That's why I was talking about it, and I respect the institution and the independence of the attorney general, but I feel and see selectivity in certain things. Let's just say, if we're talking about such things as the attorney general's office, I referred to my colleague Leakovic, you've now had cases in Rijeka, defiled certain sacral objects, breaking up Lady Lourdska's statue, damage in the church of Blessed... The attorney general doesn't refer to it, it's hate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So she doesn't refer to that kind of thing, while other things are referred to. And that's why I'm saying, for the sake of the attorney general and for the office itself, and for all of us. Without selectivity, we would talk far, far different about that report, but also about what it is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203524	The next replica is the respected MPs Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203525	Comrade Babiæ, you insist on these ideological differences, so be it, I don't think that's good when it comes to any argument about the actions of the attorney general. What bothered me, however, is that you are now relativizing hate crimes in Croatia. You're talking about what it's all about, just 25 hate crimes. So what's that about German 3 grand, 5 grand, 7 grand, that's nothing. Well, it's way too much to be one, buddy Granny. You say there's no Ustasha sign. I went from Split to Zagreb, saw one. So there's too much one, one cowardly cross, one U, that's all too much, you understand? You cannot say that there is no problem in Croatia of hate crime, according to minority peoples, especially towards the Serb in Croatia. So it's absolutely something that nobody who lives in the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether they're sitting on the right side of the assembly or here on the left or the middle or not, see, people feel it on their skin. So it's completely irresponsible for you to say that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203526	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203527	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Leakovic. You're right, one hate crime is too much. I just said that in certain international institutions, it is particularly apostrophe because your attorney general, she also has a universal report and this report by the attorney general every year you benefit from certain diplomatic representations and international organisations when she talks about such things. Then there's a mass phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia that's not, that's what I'm saying. So I don't want to discuss ideologically with you or anyone here right now, but I'm saying it's not a mass phenomenon. We can't talk about a mass phenomenon, I don't know, such signs in the Republic of Croatia when that's not true. They happen, in fact, when certain games happen, when some tensions may already be in a society that we once again create, institutions we, or the media, make them and people react to it, which is certainly not good. So, one hate crime isn't good, but I'm saying, compare 25 and I don't know, 8 or 9 grand, it's not the same, it's not about them, it's about us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203528	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203529	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear colleague. Here, I have been constantly following the work of the attorney general since I've been here at HS, of course I welcome and support him. But you've talked a lot about selectivity in your debate. Do you feel that there is, that, that the reports are selective and that they can be made and done to make it much better, and at what points of view do you think that this work or report can be improved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203530	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203531	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Maximchuk. If you have read the 2018 report on 288 pages, the Ombudsman shall make recommendations to all institutions, state and public bodies. We can talk about such things, but we must also admit that the government has given an opinion on almost 37 pages and is in fact warning the Ombudsman of some things that as such are not true. When I was talking about selectivity, when you look at the overall picture in society, then you can selectively extract certain things that, say, exist in that report while, say, other things have been ignored. So they neglect themselves, which is not good. So such a report actually serves certain phenomena in our society that people react to and it's not good and I don't like such reports, I prefer objective reports, one that would objectively talk about certain things, not selectively, which is really to read from that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203532	Thank you very much. We went far again and we talked in the report at least in connection with the Ombudsman, not with all other phenomena in society and beyond. But the final individual debate will follow will be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203533	Dear colleagues, Miss Vidovic. I think there's a saying that says this. The problem of the Croatian state says unspoken truth is worse than lies. There's no telling the truth. I don't know any, so I lived in Canada and France and America, there's not a single parliament, a parliament that doesn't, where there are no minorities where they represent themselves anymore, but in the Republic of Croatia. Not only the minority, I would like to see from the beginning of the modern Croatian state's assembly as far as Yugoslavia was in HS, it's another minority, maybe half. That's what smoke curtains are for. I think they are the most discriminated against in this country by Croats in BiH, Croatians in the diaspora, I will prove that easily. I've never heard of you, I've never heard of you, Mr Maras, I've never heard of you representing Croats outside the country. Let's talk about the Croats outside the country. You have, they have the right to vote, but the formal right to vote because they have to fly six hours from Vancouver and from Sage, it's pure flossula. They were good when they sent billions of dollars here and today they're sending billions, they're good. When they were saving our people's asses in the assembly, they were buying hundreds of millions for guns here and the Croats in BiH were giving, dying here, and what they had, where they were transferred, to some mosque. They spit on them every day, systematically spit on Croats, Bosnians, Herzegovians, I experience it in Zagreb every day so that someone doesn't spit on me Croatian general. And that's that former Yugoslav mental circuit that's still here. It's an anthropological question. That's not what you're talking about. What's the matter with Pisces? When, we are Catholics already, if we are mostly Catholics, Christians, when Mr. Frljić spits there by faith this aspect of Matija Babic by Christians, it is allowed That, that's, you shut up with you I didn't talk and sit down. [[Clip intrusion: Don't insult]] I'm full of you, I'll carry on, don't interrupt me and so tense, let's move on here, citizenship. Now let's talk about citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203534	Representative Glasnović, Representative Glasnović, please. Please, Agent Glanovic, let's do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203535	Now let's talk about citizenship. And here's my back, uh, this one interrupts me here, this idiot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203536	Comrade Glasnović, you get a warning, you can't act like one, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203537	Okay, okay, I accept the warning, I accept the warning. I'll take it. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] We can talk later, me and you out there, not now. Nationality. Let's talk about citizenship now. Croats still, we wait three decades for citizenship, Croats get citizenship. Three, the new law isn't on, on the table, people are looking for citizenship. We remember her, she, that Croatian folk... HNS, I will not say Croatian national shame. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Chile there are 500, 500 requests citizenship has waited down for years. People come to me every day, I'm on that Board of Representatives and Appeals. There's a man, 5 years old. He's waiting for citizenship, he's back, he's waiting. He came, but his citizenship was over a year ago, it's one of the red authorities of the former system... Put it on the table, a year ago it was over, it was that bureaucracy socialist. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Festival of Democracy, so much for voting. What about the European Directive on the return of violently seized property? Miss Vidovic, what's wrong with that? People die, they'll never come back. Millions of kunas have, the values here from the river you have that red Emperor Obersnel, the woman of the mother has her own property, it's getting worse, it's hers, it's hers, it's hers in the catastrus that's hers and it doesn't bring her back. Wait, a woman will die, all those people will die because not only mass murder has been committed, but economic violence has also been committed. The abuse of power. When are we going to talk about conversion and privatisation? This process takes time, who's being punished for it by these red directors? Nobody. Pre-fashion deals, bank accounts out there, they're fine, and they've created another generation of emigrants. From this party where Mr. Maras belongs, one man, one man boasts on the Internet the tenth largest mass murderer in the history of a bloody locksmith and thus directly defends and paedophiles. He was a pedophile, he was a child of 14 years old, your beloved comrade locksmith was a pedophile, just like Stalin was a pedophile, and since he was a pedophile of this Mao Ce-tung and that metal band and we keep quiet, we take off everyone's underpants, to the international community, and the floral hate speech, the Ustashaoids, it's not, it's nothing, it doesn't see any Ustashas here. Where are they? Who signed the Ustasha oath here? But we have people from the former system, there are the people of Miss Vidovic who have been typing a student at the University of Split code name Odyssey, he is sitting in the assembly. Is this a democracy festival? D's opening the archives to see who's where he worked for who? That's what they hide like a snake's foot. I'll do it again, ideology. Ideology. What kind of ideology? True, there are no ideological signs. It's a cover-up here, this is just one play of ex-humans, and we're welcome to Croslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203538	Mr. Glasnović, everything you've been saying has really nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure's amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203539	Well, I don't have to talk to Miss Vidovic ever, so it's my last chance maybe in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203540	So make an announcement, so talk to each other in person, and it's not, it's not, it's not a way to talk about things that don't really have anything to do with the point. Your Honor, Agent Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203541	Thank you very much. I was going to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203542	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, this first, first, was the first one to lift this violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203543	Thank you very much. I have to react, Mr. Vice President. I, from day to day, wonder how they go to tolerate this kind of debate in the HS that is arranged. 238. It's btw today. if you know one big day for the City of Zagreb, the Day of Liberation of the City of Fascism 75 years ago. And it's amazing that Mr. Glasnovic can call one great statesman a pedophile. So that's something the HS shouldn't be allowed to do. I beg you here is the bust of Vladimir Nazor who came on behalf of the government in '45. receive an application with the military and the release of the city to protect our institutions. So you just can't let that happen anymore. Congratulations again to the Zagreb and Zagreb women their day, the Day of Liberation of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203544	When he spoke as he spoke to you he got a warning, right. And other things are the question of the attitude of ideologies, and so in which I cannot intervene from this place, I can intervene as I did that he was speaking beyond the subject completely, as most of today's participants have unfortunately said in the debate, but good. Obviously, it's such an atmosphere that it doesn't want to talk about the subject, but it's spreading, so sometimes it's connected to something at least, at least it's tied to the attorney general in a way, and some of them are stuck away, but good. The Honorable Vice President of this House Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203545	Mr. Vice President. I was going to replicate, but there is no more Mr. Glasnović, so I ask for five minutes of breaks so that everyone can rest together from the last speech and so that Mr. Maras and Mr. Glasovic, as suggested by Mr. Glasnovic before he escaped outside, can continue the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203546	I have to give it to the Rules of Procedure and I'll see you in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MPs' club, although it is the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman, I must point out here and warn that we must consult on the growing gaps and problems that our fellow citizens in the Republic of Croatia have, the indifference of certain people who behave whether local, whether the state government and the problems that citizens face. Here we see today, I took a walk in the city before I came here, that citizens do not have a basic prerequisite for normal life even though they pay taxes and taxes, although the city of Zagreb should ensure normal living conditions in the city of Zagreb, over 40 days, here it means today it seems to me that the 45th day since the earthquake, the citizens are walking the streets of the public transport system is not working, the cranes are all over the city, it's all one big bullet and the thing that simply must not be normal in an orderly city in an orderly country. I must especially mention here that I am dissatisfied with the state's reaction. It is amazing that the law on the reconstruction of Zagreb is not yet in the process after 45 days, and that yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic threw crumbs to the citizens of Zagreb and told you here are 20,000 kunas after you spent hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas to restore your chimneys, to repair their roofs and to be able to live like that, despite the fact that tens of thousands of our citizens still do not have the conditions for living and do not, for example, have hot water. So 45 days in the country that holds the EU's presidency in the city of Zagreb, the metropolis of the country cannot get hot water from the state and the city. Today we are in such a situation and ladies and gentlemen need to wonder who is responsible for this. I'm sure the attorney general.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203548	I'll give you a break and I'll see you at 11.31. ... Okay, then we'll give the word on behalf of the promoter to the esteemed occupier, Lori Vidovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203549	Thank you very much. Therefore, these amendments and additions are indeed only about the technical harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor with two laws, the Law on the Ombudsman and the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. The formulation as originally proposed was more linguistically in line with the current Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Ombudsman. The government has proposed to be more linguistically harmonised in the Law on Protection against Notifiers Irregularity, we have certainly done so without any problems since they are in preamble to both laws. So there's really nothing controversial about it and it's very technically this whole process. However, I think it is a good opportunity just to mention because many of you have talked about some of the challenges that we have seen since the law enters into force, related to the application of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity or the Protection of whistles, since there is still a great misunderstanding and ignorance not only of the general public but also of experts, and I see, of course, parliamentary representatives as to what this law refers to, who and how it protects and what is in whose jurisdiction it is. So far, we have received 46 individual reports of persons who believe to be reporting irregularities, and in this case, the Ombudsman is not an institution that investigates irregularities, we are merely forwarding them to the handling of the competent authorities, our responsibility is to protect the applicant of irregularities, so the whistler from possible damage in the context of a working relationship. So the whole series is a situation where there is insufficient understanding and therefore it certainly takes a lot of activities to educate and strengthen awareness of the rights and protection of whistles. Some of them, as Mr. Stier spoke and data protection or the protection of whistles. We have already had several meetings with the DORH and we hope that all we are doing, so all we are doing is to protect the applicants and our prosecutors and under other laws and strengthen citizens' confidence in institutions, it is indeed the first place. Although it is a matter of technical harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure, what this service is today, or by publishing in the National Journal, should be done, in no case is technical. Unfortunately this service is, will be empty even though in our budget of the Office for this year the resources for hiring people for teaming services are provided, I hope that by the end of the year will indeed come and that we will have the capacities and resources to truly fulfil all the duties that we must under this law in the best possible way. We have to say that in the earthquake, the Attorney General's office is significantly damaged, so we can't even go in there anymore, let alone work. It is still not formalized to make a second space available, which, of course, can, which seems to be only temporary and insufficient, but I mean that we are working under extremely difficult conditions and under these conditions we are trying to be available to everyone. The number of complaints, i.e. the number of e-mails we received this year from March 15th to May 1st, is 30% higher than the same period last year. It is also important to point out that, in relation to the independence and institutional framework of the Ombudsman, last year after extremely long, deep, complex accreditations carried out by the UN body, the Ombudsman received the recredit of status A as an independent and independent institution in accordance with all the highest standards required for such an institution. For me and my office and my team, it's the biggest recognition and feedback on how thoroughly, quality, independent, independent and in line with international documents we do this job. I will not use this opportunity to talk about other segments of human rights or the report. In doing so, I must point out to all of you that I am actually disappointed that you are not better informed, so the reference is not the 2019 Report submitted to HS on 31 March despite the crowns, earthquakes, inability to work and all other difficulties. Unfortunately, HS did not discuss the 2018 report. I don't know if it'll be for 2018 and 2019. My mandate is also coming to an end, and I don't know as well as some of you, here, some MPs who used this pay phone for pre-election talks, probably this is also, the last address from this pay phone, if the Assembly doesn't discuss the '18 Report. and '19. by the end of the year. What I do not want to miss the opportunity to say is that, i.e. to thank all the employees and employees of the Ombudsman, as institutions who are neither dilettants nor sloppy dilettants nor merely sloppy, who are extremely dedicated, motivated, professional, valuable and whatever difficult conditions they are, indeed do their best to respond to all needs and to all the mandates of our institution and as regards individual complaints of citizens and their protection and as regards cooperation with the competent authorities, participation in the adoption of policies and laws in international cooperation and all other tasks that have been given to us, and I am sure that this will continue in the future. Thank you once again for your support in confirming this Rules of Procedure and we will continue, hopefully, even stronger, more teamed and stronger with this Rules of Procedure and the people I hope will be able to work on this mandate, continue this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203550	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203551	Thank you, Vice President. Ma'am. Vidovic. Therefore, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure aim to ensure better preventive mechanisms in Croatia to prevent corruption because when corruption happens, the damage has already been done and, in fact, it is difficult to correct all the evil it has done. So it's important to prevent corruption from happening at all. Thus, the protection of whistles is crucial, as is the protection of the work of all other independent bodies. The Attorney General, the Commissioner for Information, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, independent media are the main defences in preventing corruption from happening at all. I'm glad you finally got the funds to get your Office teamed up because too much time has passed, and that's probably why citizens in Croatia still don't trust institutions and don't report corruption. Of course, it is also very important that education for civil society and democracy that children of the earliest age understand that corruption should be fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203552	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Attorney General, I must admit that I am extremely surprised with this information that after 45 days you still have not been given the opportunity to continue in the full scope of your job since the earthquake and that the premises are impossible to work. I suggest that the president of HS intervene in person because you answer to HS so that the state can provide you with space so that they can work. On the other hand, and on the other hand, that Croatian citizens have someone to address in the protection of their rights. And I am taking the opportunity at the end of this debate to congratulate you personally and to thank you for your dedicated work in your term of office. I hope you will have the opportunity to still do this job and continue to act in the attorney general's new term of office. Thank you very much for your work, and I think you do, as well as yours. The employees you did the job on [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The best possible way. [[Intruder: Next Replication]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203554	He's a respected representative of Karoline Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203555	Your Honor, ma'am. Attorney General, I am in my own, in my individual discussion I am talking about your report for 2019 which you delivered to HS which is, of course, as always very detailed, informative and full of the data you draw from different sources. And of course you could do your job in the D.A.'s office even better if you had staff, organisational and financial more resources, capacity and opportunities. And in this context, I would like to join the appeal that Mr Banužić, the Minister of State Property, will, under urgent arrangements, be physically placed in the administrations of the attorney general so that all citizens who do not have access to the Internet, who are not able to use the Internet, who are not able to do so, or phone you, can subscribe to and present their problem and provide them as Croatian citizens and citizens with access to all institutions and the most important institution that cares about respect for their human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203556	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. The esteemed Attorney General. So you're saying that a good opinion about your work has the bodies of the UN and that's why you got category A, but you're categorized in category A and that makes you very happy. But you are the authority of HS and you should rejoice in the opinion of the Croatian people, the Croatian regiment of an institution that is true, which is objective, which does its job in the best possible way. Speaking so, you said for 2019 that you submitted a report to HS under difficult conditions, we saw that report that you handed it over, but you also said that the public expert and... parliamentary representatives did not understand it enough, which is not correct, is not correct on your part. And when I said about the sloppy work, I said I said I wasn't talking about people who are dilettans in the Attorney General's Office, you used this pay phone again to say that they're not people who are dilettantes and who are sloppy. This proposal that you made is a sloppy proposal because if it weren't for the government not to have 14 interventions on one Rules of Procedure which has 20 articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203558	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203559	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I have to say that the truth is that it hasn't intervened in space. The president himself sent a letter to the Minister of State Property asking for the problem to be resolved. But my replica refers to the report. Namely, all those interested in your site can see a report for 2019 where you have seen that you have had over 2500 submissions, but what I think is good to have your recommendations for example. Even over 65% of yours from 2017 are respected. Some recommendations also refer to financial additional funds that are certainly not so easy to solve overnight, so here's what our public knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203560	Thank you very much. I see my colleague Zekanovic picked up, probably looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203561	That's right, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to consult further on this agenda point. Here I must point out that today in Croatia, an extremely important thing has happened, and this is a breakthrough of the coronary virus on the island of Brac, and something must be said in HS, and I will use these two minutes to do so. So, for those of you who don't know the sloppyness of some people today, we have on Brač Island 10-odd coronarys with a virus. The only place that was kept strictly strict, and these were Croatian islands, today became after Murter the focus of the coronary epidemic with the virus. The second place to be guarded were nursing homes, and unfortunately, there today was an epidemic of the coronary virus. I think this is unacceptable, that all the services and county headquarters of course and the national headquarters here have completely failed. Such sloppyness that someone who is positive on the coronary virus returns home and threatens the masquerading older population on the island of Brac is unacceptable. The married are desperate, extremely bitter, and this way they have my full support. This way I tell them that their anger is justified because what happened today on the island of Brač should not have happened. Someone has to answer, and it can't be nobody's fault this time, as it was about nursing homes, so someone has to answer. Why, now that the crown is a crisis let's say in the end under control there's this huge gap that threatens, I'm going to repeat the population of the Croatian islands in this situation I mean specifically to the island of Brac?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203562	A colleague, Zekanovic, of course, is a very important thing as well as the fact that many homes for older and powerless also got sick, not today but earlier, but had nothing to do with the topic, and the pause is wanted in connection with the topic, so I am giving you a warning. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And since they're all. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203563	The people of Nerd and Puss don't think this is for a warning, this is a very serious problem for them. Ask them, Mr. Rainer, whether this deserves a warning or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203564	I said it was a serious matter, and I gave you a warning because you were acting past the Rules of Procedure, so I gave you a warning, not because you mentioned something that is very important. Well, that's what I said, so please don't get any points on it, it doesn't make any sense. It's a serious situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203565	The Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General, the Proposer is the Advocate General, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next decision. The Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman shall be confirmed in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 7 November 2019. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 121 for, 0 abstentions and 1 against, so we made a decision as proposed by the parent constituency body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203566	And now we can move on to our first point today, and this is the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor, the Proposer is the Advocate General. 30. Law on the Attorney General and Art. 36. Law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered its opinion, the Ombudsman delivered a new Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman in line with the remarks of the Government that you also received. Does the attorney general want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Attorney General Laura Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, you've actually already said almost everything I should have said, so this Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor of the Police. Article 2 Law on the Attorney General and Art. Art. Article 36(1) Law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. It shall add, in accordance with the other mandates and the institution or the office of the Ombudsman, the protection of applicants of irregularities as set out in the other services which are now in the office, the tasks of the service shall be determined, the conduct of individual reports of irregularities in the work for which the Ombudsman is responsible, the means of submitting the application and the submission of the report to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the current methodology. All proposals as you have said, following the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution submitted by the Government in relation to amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, have been included, accepted and are now an integral part of this Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure and I propose to the Croatian Parliament to confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203568	Thank you very much, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Yes, we have one replica, Honorable representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203569	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. You have sent these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman to the Croatian Parliament on 30 September and then the Government has given you a draft opinion within a month on these amendments and additions, and in that opinion has actually listed a few things that I may list in my individual debate, but I am interested in how to be an excellent lawyer, because in the 2018 report where you make recommendations to all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and a number of lawyers working in the Office of the Public Attorney may actually be able to make such mistakes, in fact, such a diletarian job that you sent to the Croatian Assembly? Here, so I'm wondering for a second, was it one of these little bits through this, or did you actually not refer enough to a Colloquial called the whistle-sniffing law you were just talking about? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203570	The esteemed attorney general, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203571	I am not sure exactly how to answer your question because you refer to the dilettant work of colleagues and colleagues who work in the institution of the occupier, yet I have to stand in their call of defence, although it is not necessary, in the office each of them is working for their field of work, of course we are always welcome with all the support and assistance, and so as the nomtechmen are concerned with the competent offices and the Government and the Assembly, and we are happy to accept any situation in which we can improve our work, but please, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, in front of the office which is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian Parliament is the very Croatian Parliament is supporting these colleagues and colleagues and the whole team in the Office of the Public Ombudsman, here is indeed extremely difficult, especially in these circumstances and the work that work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203572	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203573	Thank you very much. Comrades and colleagues, respected citizens, distinguished attorneys, distinguished representative of the government. People who are whistles, applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia are marginalised, unjustly convicted, can also be cited and punished instead of being rewarded and not only in matters of state services, state-owned companies that have been robbed, devastated created fear and mistrust of people in the judicial system and institutions. This is one about the fact, I can give you an example that is not so old, which was warned by a Croatian diplomat, Mr Sabelak, who spoke about corruption and nepotism at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what was happening and man brought forth, means the truth in front of the Croatian public by respecting all the standards and procedures where he informed about the spending of funds non-transparently and of the man to be rewarded by him was punished. He is punished no matter what he has his children, what a career diplomat is, what he behaves both patriotically and humanly. In this way we see that people simply do not, that our citizens create mistrust, and mainly in the judiciary. So any shift that we're bringing on paper, and mostly so that there won't be a dead letter on paper, should protect people reporting irregularities. We do, and we remember the INA problem. For example, he was strong, it's quite significant, it's Mrs. and Vesna Balenovic, who has warned for years about what is happening, how money is drawn from the INA. However, this person was also persecuted. And so we have countless examples, we have examples in all segments of society, in the media space towards journalists, in public services to officials where instead of rewarding these people and encouraging them to point to corruption, nepotism, they are actually being punished. First of all, this high house and we parliamentary deputies, here's the end of the mandate, there's been a lot of talk about it from all the political, all the political positions. However, it is a fact that very small shifts in the Republic of Croatia. One of the main reasons why 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, which is why we have 6% of the foreign credits, is that this is how the institutions acted and what clientism is, nepotism has essentially led to such a situation that people have created mistrust in institutions and now our citizens live in other countries and unfortunately send money to the Republic of Croatia from abroad. And so before this crown of crisis, we had this feeling. There was a picture of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. And it's good that economic growth, but this growth is essentially created that those who have evicted, who are the most qualitative in the Republic of people of all levels from workers to high intellectuals, people who do their jobs, professors, are evicted and imagine 18 billion kunas annually, those people who could create new values in the Republic of Croatia are out there, and that's most because people have created mistrust in the system, and those who have tried to point out irregularities, robbery in privatisation, what was happening in the Republic, what is not, what caused 2/3 of the Republic, that they have emigrated, in fact not to marginalise them, but to terrorize them and endanger their existence. Damir Sablak is a Croatian diplomat, let's say, recently the most exposed example. The man who pointed out what was happening in the institutions today neither Andrej Plenkovic nor Gordan Jandrokovic, all those who were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs absolutely did anything to protect this man but rather they in their inaction essentially encourage corruption and clientism to continue. And I think at this point this bill will have an effect if the Rules of Procedure are respected if the laws are respected. But mostly it's this dead letter on paper. A number of people reporting irregularities indicated non-transparentity. So today in the Republic of Croatia, those who point out simply to them as people who are being isolated as individual cases, as errors in the system, are essentially heroes of this time, they risk their committee to point out what is happening in society. So today when we look at it we have yes, we have results that in the Republic all milk money that goes out. Many people pointed out, our citizens, to problems, such as financing renewable energy sources. It's a case of a wind power plant where billions of kunas go into foreign pockets while we with solars can solve that problem. So our energy poverty of our families, our independent families. However, it continues to go into foreign pockets a billion kuna a year. The same case happened to you with the banks. Banks a year in RH 4 billion kuna...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203574	My colleague Bulj, but I'm sorry to interrupt, but really wind power plants, everything you're mostly saying has nothing to do with the Attorney General's office, the wind power plants really have nothing to do with it. Please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203575	But the subject is the notifier. I can list all the applicants. So, the notifier...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203576	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203577	That the Rules of Procedure where it makes it easier for applicants to explain it, he said in his conversation, you did not listen to it. I'd love it if you'd sit on this chair and listen to what the attorney general has been talking about, which is changing in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are about applicants of irregularities, you confirm, here if you can't answer To protect the notifier? [[Clip intrusion: A new application service is being established]] And please, this is the last time you've done this to me is because this isn't your nephew or your mother's. Reporters who warned about your robberies, those who warned about the robberies...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203578	Don't do it, pal Bulj. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203579	Mr. Sabelak warned of yours, Mr. Sabelak warned as a notifier, and this law essentially...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203580	My colleague Bulj, I am the foundation of the article. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. For the purposes of Article 240(2), the following definitions shall apply: I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. No, you said I stole it, that's what you said, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203581	You stole the right words from me, and I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203582	No, you said I stole something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203583	And you don't have the right to think, I didn't say you stole, but you stole the freedom of word to talk about the subject. I'm talking about the topic that the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203584	You said, I know what you said and shame on you might be about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203585	...is not protecting the applicants. I, I must be ashamed to talk about the subject. What am I talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203586	That's right, not about what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203587	Renewable energy sources, notifier banks, applicants who indicated that we import money, import food products 3 billion kunas and protect our agriculture, indicators, all who pointed out were punished, by Mrs Balenovic, Mr Sabelak about the problem in INI and you have no right to my opinion, expression and appraisal of the applicants and the results of not protecting our people, which means applicants of illegality. I didn't tell anyone, I said the system doesn't work and it doesn't protect those people. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the system does not protect a man who is a whistler, a notifier, and this rule of law changes that part and that's what the attorney general said in her report. I don't see any reason to stop me when I'm talking about applicants and amending the Rules of Procedure on Irregularity and amending Rules of Procedure. Not a single sentence was out of it. I was just talking about segments of society and what's going on because marginalized, persecuted applicants of irregularities in all spheres. From media spheres, from media to economic, in all spheres. And I absolutely didn't step away from the subject. We are talking about damage to society in terms of corruption, clientelism of those who report these phenomena in society. And I don't see any reason to be reminded of me and to remember me, that I was saying something off topic, I was exactly sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Amendment to the Rules of Procedure. [[You're out of time.]] I'd like to ask you to at least apologize in the end to the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203588	Shame on you, if you were very decent, but you don't know what that word means, you'd apologize to me for what you said. Dear Representative Lovrinovic is probably looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203589	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly on behalf of the Club Change Croatia, Live Wall I demand a break of at least 5 minutes to consult on this topic. Proposed by a representative of a HDZ representative who called this bill a dilettante clock, the term was not used yesterday when the election of the main state attorney was being discussed, it is not dilentism, it was directed itself. So they privatize the DORH, they want their DORH, their judiciary, everything you want. I'm sorry that you've come this far to represent Bulja, who may have been clumsy, but I wouldn't want to believe that you'd want to shut this debate down today, too. Let us talk. That's why I'm looking for a break. Why? Well to me, I get a flood of memos through social networks, mail, people feel threatened, they don't know who to write to. The Croatian judiciary is increasingly calling the wrong courts, they feel helpless. HRT produces 100,000 performers every year they do not know who will protect them. I think that e-mails and mailboxes are full of public defenders, that people don't know what to do anymore. We can't live in a country where the same law isn't the same for everyone. We can't live in a country where some people can never be convicted, they always get disputes, they never lose. That's why Croatian citizens are moving out. Dear citizens, if you are looking at us today in this assembly, I invite you to tear this up, this weed that destroys us. Give support to the people who are fighting for you, to get out of this assembly finally those who want to order the judiciary against us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203590	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break and I'll see you at 9:00 and 58. It's 9:00.53. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are going back and next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Marko Simic, please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:58 AM]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203592	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I also welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the attorney general. Before us today is the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman who is to confirm HS in accordance with the provisions of Art. The 30th century. Law on the Attorney General and Art. The 36th century. The law on the protection of applicants of irregularities has been lodged by the Advocate General by its act of 26 September 2019. The Rules of Procedure shall be a normative act surrounding the normative arrangement of the institution of the Advocate General. It is the Rules of Procedure on the Amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General, which is amended with the aim of harmonising the internal structure of the Ombudsman's office with the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. Let us remind ourselves that it is in 2018 and 2019. in this assembly was also a political debate on the regulation of the position of applicants of irregularities, and the work on drawing up a draft law on the protection of applicants of irregularities. Although, to date, the Republic of Croatia has largely developed its legal framework to prevent corruption, the adoption of a separate Law on the Protection of So-called ‘. A whistle in line with European and international standards is a necessary component of the creation and effective and comprehensive mechanism of the fight against crime, corruption and irregularities. In accordance with the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularities, which entered into force on 1 July 2019, the institution of the Ombudsman has become the competent authority for external reporting, which, according to its jurisdiction and competences and capabilities, will be adequate for the adequate reception and processing of applications, and the provision of protection to applicants. The intensity of the law was the unification of legal standards and their protection in a special law. It is a comprehensive legal framework that regulates and further protects persons who refer to the application to various irregularities. Namely, as I said, before this law was passed, the protection of applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia was partially regulated in several laws. Some of them are the Penal Code, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on Labour, the Law on Trade, the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Information and others. For the first time, however, this law systematises and detailedly regulates problems related exclusively to applicants of irregularities and protects them from sanctions against employers that would be linked to the application. It closely regulates the protection of people who report corruption, but is extended to other irregularities and violations of laws related to the unconscious management of public goods, public funds and EU funds. In addition to the already existing services in the internal structure of the office, so this law and today this Rules of Procedure, the Office for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularities is being established as one of the internal establishment units responsible for the conduct of the affairs of certain areas of work and the part-round of the Ombudsman. I must stress here as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System that yesterday at the Committee meeting we had this Rules of Procedure as one and only point and in the debate, so we mentioned this Rules of Procedure and asked the Advocate General to adopt the opinion of the Government in which they were highlighted and numbered, therefore irregularities, i.e. largely non-compliance in the normative, so they express this legal act. After agreeing with nomotechnics and acceptances, therefore the proposed amendments in the government's opinion, during yesterday, so in the afternoon we also received the final text of this Rules of Procedure. It is important to stress that the draft law and the adoption of the laws by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this assembly of parliament have made a major step in protecting the applicant of irregularities. Once again, we have sent a clear message that corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia do not have and need not be, that such actions and such phenomena in society should be announced and that persons who are able to gain courage and strength and report such irregularities will have adequate legal protection. I must also point out that colleagues who had previously appeared in their discussions mentioned that this Rules of Procedure had protected someone. No, I don't. This Rules of Procedure protects no one, is protected by the law that adopted this HS in this assembly. Following, therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in, the next and the opinion of the Government, the HDZ Representatives Club will give its consent to such a text of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203593	Thank you very much. The following should be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, which should have been spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, who is not, is losing his right to speak, and the next will be the SDP's Club of Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Karolina Leaković will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the rules of the regiment, the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General who are on the HS agenda today, the SDP Club will support. We welcome the adoption of amendments that will improve the organisation and procedure of an institution that has been in charge since 1.7.2019. in accordance with the law mentioned above, the new term of office within the meaning of the authority responsible for the external reporting of irregularities. The Advocate General shall, upon receipt of the application of irregularities and shall forward them to the authorities authorised to act and shall examine individual applications in order to take the actions necessary under his jurisdiction to protect the rights of the notifiers with external reporting and public disclosure, which shall also be of great importance. The law provides for internal reporting of irregularities, which implies detecting irregularities to an employer who is considered to be public authorities and a natural or legal person in whom the applicant of irregularities carries out tasks. Employers who employ at least 50 persons are also obliged to establish a system of internal reporting irregularities accordingly to appoint a confidential person for internal reporting and its alternate, to ensure the protection of applicants against adverse consequences, to keep the information received in the application from unauthorised disclosure and to take further measures to remove identified irregularities. The real question is whether we have been able to make a move since the entry into force of this law, since employers had a certain period during which they had to adapt to the provisions of this law or in which they had to apply them. In order to ensure quality safety of whistles, it is necessary that the system enables safe reporting of irregularities, effective mechanisms to examine the reporting of irregularities and their removal and sanctioning and, of course, the protection of whistles themselves from harmful actions which may be exposed to the application. It is therefore important to provide funds for the implementation of the law, but also for what is particularly important and what is emphasized by the Advocate General in his report last year, which was adopted in HS, and for the education of all groups that will apply the law from employers, workers to judges and prosecutors. All of this, as I said, was warned by the Ombudsman in her report to the Assembly, but it seems to me that, unfortunately, we will not have a chance to discuss it, so in this context, I would like to point out the problems the institution has faced over the past ten months, how much law is in force or how much is the body responsible for the external reporting of irregularities. I will repeat that several channels for reporting, internal, externally extremely important public disclosure of irregularities, there are then judicial protection, damage compensation and what is also important to protect the identity and confidentiality of applicants of irregularities. Therefore, according to this, applicants may report irregularities defined as violations of the law and other rules, unwitting management of public goods, public funds and EU funds that pose a threat to public interest, and are linked to the conduct of business with the employer. The Advocate-General warns that during the past and various institutions and employers and citizens themselves have addressed her office in order to request interpretation of the provisions or to request advice regarding the handling, to whom to report, what to report, what procedure and what then happens, which is at all the role of the Ombudsman's institution when it comes to this law. And many questions are, of course, still unanswered, because these reporting mechanisms have yet to be stalked in some way. The real question is whether potential applicants know irregularities that they can even apply and address the occupier and what happens later on with their application. As I have already said in accordance with the provisions of this law, employers have had a certain period of 6 months to establish this internal mechanism for reporting irregularities, but it seems to me that it is far more important than this internal mechanism to ensure both the possibility and opportunity of public disclosure, of course through free media, but also to strengthen the institution of the attorney general. I hope this will happen when the amendments to this Rules of Procedure come into effect, because the whole thing is relatively fresh, and with education, public information and even awareness of the existence of this significant, I would also say the anti-corruption mechanism needs to be worked even more strongly. I think it is important to point out that by the entry into force of this law, the attorney general has received a new very complex mandate, it includes substantial communication with other bodies such as the DORH, the State Inspectorate, the local and regional self-government units, and the Ombudsman herself warns that communication with the applicants itself is also extremely complex, very sensitive because their identity must be protected, and those who report irregularities naturally go through a very difficult period in the working environment, and this is often negatively reflected in their private and family relations. And that is why I think it is important to stress that it is necessary to strengthen both the financial and the staff and the organisation institution of the Ombudsman's staff, because this is also the framework for the exercise of human rights and anti-corruption activities as a whole. In this term, the HDZ government has in many cases fought against independent institutions, and if it is tried at the beginning of this debate it will happen today, there will be no big difference. So far, the attorney general has not been an exception, so there have been many objections to its behaviour, and the conduct of this independent authority of the HS is absolutely in line with all the laws and provisions we insist on as SDP. We support what the attorney general is doing in terms of seeking answers, let's say the police are treating refugees, we support its clear determination in relation to hate speech or the emphasis on Ustasha signs and greetings. However, what concerns is that in the part of the public, especially in the part of the institutions and the top political authorities. That, fortunately, changed in political change in Pantovac, so many ruling actors do not welcome this kind of questioning. The impression is that the work of this independent institution during the term of this Government has been tried and tried in all ways to be diminished and relativated, we must not allow this either in the case of the Ombudsman, nor in the case of other lawyers, nor in the case of other independent institutions that account for the Croatian Parliament, and through the Croatian Assembly, of course, Croatian citizens and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203595	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203596	Dearly respected representatives of the Public Attorney's Office, I especially address you and welcome you. We'll probably still be here for a few days in this assembly and I'm trying to send these most important messages in this time that's left until the election. When I came to this assembly 3.5 years ago, dear citizens, I was full of hope that we could change the key things that stand in the way of a quieter, better, happier life and for the future of our children. However, here on the spot I realized with my eyes that on the first line of the defence of Croatia are people, most of the people who are her biggest problem. Today we are discussing a proposal for a Law on Public Defence or a proposal for people who report crime, corruption in their businesses, environments to protect themselves in the best possible way and Party Change Croatia will support this proposal. However, you have seen dear citizens who first reported to be replicating the attorney general. The HDZ representative who attacked her and said she brought here a dilettaneal, dilettane proposal. That same one yesterday, it wasn't heard of him here when, when we discussed the state's, their state's attorney's proposal, the head of the state's attorney, the key to defending the rights, the order, which should defend us all. We didn't have a choice yesterday because she was set up. I warned yesterday that it would be crucial for her election to be influenced by several MPs that the DORH is questioning and persecuting. There was more irony and tragedy for a country, one people than that happening to him? This part of Croatia, the foundation of the Croatian state and the society that was firm, was to be firm, someone put clay in place overnight. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Croatian judiciary is increasingly referred to as a mistrial. It is no wonder that only non-members or party sympathisers who are in power are prosecuted and investigated. It is no wonder that those who have done terrible things, violated, broke the law, moved freely or easily crossed the border to a reserve position in BiH. That's why we've got some things to do from the start, and it's about justice. I thought when I came to this assembly, as an economist, that the most important economic policy was, you know, having a good solution to raise GDP, production, employment, but dear citizens until we deal with corruption there's nothing we can do about it, but nothing at all. They hold everything in their hands, you can't hire a cleaning lady today if you don't have any connection to those who rule. That's what I'm saying now, I'm actually passing on what you citizens write to me every day more and more and I support you, I'm here your language, I want to protect your interest. However, dear citizens, I also read from your memo that you feel powerless, saying that you individually have no value in your voice because these others are setting it up, doing it, etc., but respected citizens on election day are each of us emperors. Paper, pen, and you. That day we are the ones who decide. The most important thing is the decision on justice. There's nothing you can do without. Therefore, the first point of the Party's fight is to change Croatia's anti-corruption. Why is the judiciary ineffective? Well, as we see first because it's an intolerable influence of politics on him. What we have 300 presidents of the courts in Croatia who, the president, have brought such meaning rules that they should not be tried, that they do not lead the disputes, but there are about 300 of their assistants or deputies. It's about 600 people who don't practically work. But things aren't black white, I welcome from this place all those honest, working judges doing their job. We will build on them a new foundation of one new Croatia, after the election, and with these others, I will use the ugly word, but I will clean it up. The weed until we clean up in the field can't grow wheat, that's basic human logic. So we're gonna cut these 300 presidents, they're gonna work, so secretaries, then cars, so on and so forth. What else do we do? We will release all courts, from this first-degree, supreme, constitutional, banal disputes, small-value disputes. Why? Because this system wants, he's burying the courts on purpose, if someone's parked wrongly and slowed it down, if it's done by HRT, which every year the 100,000 perks produce, and he's practically creating that misery, most of it by telecom operators, we're going to remove it. And the whistles that we're talking about, about their protection, they have to get the highest level of protection. For them must be built, as for women there are safe houses, there must be a safe house for whistlers. These heroes of Croatian society who, instead of becoming heroes, are being fired, they are being persecuted. Let's just remember these brave men, from Mrs. Balenovic, from Mr Sablek at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But let's remember Dr. Ante Samodol, who worked in Croatian, was the director of HANFA, the brave man who had then ordered Agrokor to make a public offer for Belje, and if Agrokor had done so today, two years ago, would not have failed my people, would not have failed. It was also derailed by former Minister Linic and Prime Minister Kosor, who was in a frenzy. So he went against the system, the system. We don't have time for respected citizens anymore. We can't watch this anymore. Most people choose an option to pick things up and go to a more orderly state. If we all continue to do so, there will be only those who do not have the money for the bus or who do not have the strength to reach it at all because they are too old. We must defeat our fear. Dear citizens, I want to tell you from this place because I've studied every inch of this assembly and the human psyche sitting here. If you knew how scared they are, how weak they are, if you knew how pompous they are, and especially if you knew how afraid they are of these choices, you wouldn't believe me, you probably don't believe what I'm saying right now. They're weak people, they're only in the herds strong, in the herd. But dear citizens, we, no one can beat us because citizens in the election can do anything. Let's rip that weed off, from the Croatian fields that are killing us. Let us strength ourselves to give the future, the question of the future of our children because there has never been more laws in the Republic of Croatia, and never weaker and worse judiciary and never more injustice. He only expected that since the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of the EU, here are the first 6 months that Prime Minister Plenkovic will use everything, all his energy to at least use EU institutions in the fight against corruption. None of that, my dear citizens. He even in the midst of an epidemic, he has his own nebulous plans, malts not that he is the new Shuman, to spread the EU to the Balkans and down, down below. Therefore, he does not care about his country, does not care about his corrupt country. In that sense, we must make a major adjustment to the Republic of Croatia. I've said some things since the beginning. I'm full of optimism because I know it's all in the hands of the citizens. Dear citizens, let's finally understand that and change the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203597	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics in the name of the respected representative Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203598	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the Law amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of a mere defender, and this is one of those moments in which we meet with the very being of our country. We face the fact that our country is not a prophane but a sacral state. It is sacral because there are those who feel that they can do wrong by their will and that nothing will happen to them. The sad truth is that we have the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity instead of not happening at all. It is a sad fact that the truth arises from it, which is that the applicants of irregularities are faced with the wrath of this sacral state, a non-profan state, a state that does not rest on a people understood as a community of equal citizens, but rests on elites who believe that they can do whatever they want with the state. It's the fact that we're facing and it's the hysterical peak of cannibalism that we find ourselves in, is that each of the applicants of irregularities faced this hysterical cannibalism. Why did no one today mention the first name to report an irregularity? And that's Ankica Leprechaun. Because we look at the state in a sacral way, and the Tudjman family in a divine way. Ankica Lepoj was the one who first showed what it means to be a citizen and what it means to descalise a country that should be a prophane, a state that needs to be democratic, a state that needs to rest on equality and on the diversity of citizens. This is what applicants of irregularities do. They know that they will face the anger of institutions that do not function because they serve solely for the purposes of adjudicating these deities and eradicating their criminal traces. But there is also another institution, there are also other people who are fighting for the pro-fiction concept of democracy and for the state of openness and equality of citizens. It's just the attorney general's office. This, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure face us to see in the applicants irregularities a human person who has been wounded by our inability to face, both as advocates and as politicians and as citizens, a deeply corrupt concept of a state that is not, a state that is completely sacralized to be a cannibal, a state that is completely committed to such hysterical and hysterical spills, a cannibalist spill because each of them felt from the applicant of irregularities, felt what it means to be lonely and left by institutions. The Public Attorney's Office is the first institution to restore their trust in the democratic state, which is why the Public Attorney's Office is faced with the same cannibalism of the institutions, which is why they are being denied in work, which is why they are called as if they are anal, that they are directed against the state, that they do not appreciate what they should appreciate. There is nothing in this country to be valued except for citizens, every citizen. A country where there is someone in particular to be valued is not a state but a space within which cannibalism takes place, a place where there is a painful experience of the absence of democracy and the painful experience of the disappearance of a human character. As a colleague before me spoke to me about his experiences in the work of the Parliament for three and a half years, I can tell you that out of my experience this cannibalism is being spent by the most ignorant. Those who represent the so-called. nationalist thesis, nationalistic views of the state because they think the state is theirs, they keep asking the question, whose is this state. Yours isn't if you don't know what the state is. The state belongs to the citizens or the people. Let us begin to use this concept of people as it is given the meaning of the community of equal citizens who rest on diversity, that is the people. The people are not what was nationalized to be national, to be nationalist, the people are the ones who want protection that wants to live in a place where there are no irregularities, in which there is legality, and in which if we talk about holiness, the only thing that is sacred is a crowd, a multitude of citizens. Not the one who's the world, the one we can't mention, but the one who's the crowd. Every single person is a world because he is a citizen in a democratic state in a country that is profan. In the nationalist state of unskilled people, who have been expressing this Marxist Leninist concept of the state in particular in recent weeks, especially with some MPs. Now he was a colleague of Glasovic, so he went to his Marxist Leninist position in his Marxist Leninist notion of the state, the general is Marxism and Leninism because he believes that the state in which the war is constantly taking place and in which someone should be constantly defeated. It's not in the state, it's a Marxist concept where there's a class of government and a class of government. It's not in the democratic state, it's all leftovers and dusty remains of the Marxist Leninist concept of a state that sacralises the state and some elites, there's no such thing. In our democratic state, the only ones who can be sacral are numerous, each individual citizen. And let's look at what we've been doing to those citizens who have been desacralized from Ankica Lepoway to this day? We haunt them, leave them out of work. When they write a book as Ankica Lepoy, there's no network of bookstores to sell that book. Why isn't that real? Well, because you're asking a question whose country this is. As long as we ask the question of whose country this is, we realize that this country doesn't belong to anyone, because it's not a state. This question certainly doesn't ask the civil defender's office and from this place possible as my last speech in the House, I thank the attorney general for not allowing, not allowing and resisting that anyone is asking a question, whose state is but persistently speaking, the state is yours and belongs to all citizens. There's no closure of the state, it's an opening. There is the closure of institutions, because the state is transformed into a space where hysterical orgy will continue to take place, the savagery of those who have cannibalistic properties, who join together to kill each other and eat, which you will see, and in these elections what coalitions will be made and after the elections that coalitions will be made. Who's threatening, who's teaming up? All those who have put themselves at risk and now act on the historic stage just as a cannibalist no one, and they cannot create a state. That's the kind of country that needs to be defended. The Public Attorney's Office and the applicants of irregularities are nothing more than people who realize that it is a people, that it is a community of equal citizens. Equal citizens can only be different, diversity can only be in equality, everything else is persecution and cannibalism. As long as we have applicants of irregularities to protect against institutions and elites, we are nothing but a cannibalistic creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203599	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative and Vice-President of this High House Furio Radin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I feel a little uncomfortable after all these speeches because actually my intention was just to say that I agree with these changes, and then so much rhetoric actually, that we understand and agree, puts me in an awkward position. Actually, what's this about? A new service is being set up here, and it is a service for the protection of applicants of irregularities within the Office of the People's Republic, the Advocate General. And that actually means one technical change in the attorney general's office. Now, that would be so, without being done, and that's why I'm saying that so much rhetoric puts me in an awkward position because I wasn't getting ready for such rhetoric, but only on a word or government has nothing to do with these changes, and it's unnecessary to say that if the attorney general actually proposes these changes that the National Minority Club would agree with that because there's one long history of cooperation with the attorney general. But I'm saying, I understand that rhetoric that isn't pre-election, and there were MPs here who spoke from the heart, and not for practical reasons of pre-election propaganda to say so, I understand that rhetoric because this is about something very important. It is a technical change, but what's not technically is the reason for this, these new services, what she's going to have to do. It will have to receive complaints from those citizens who were not protected by law when reporting irregularities at work. She's going to have to deal with the application because the attorney general knows that there will be no only irregularities at work, but also those who speak, who will report to corruption and you will report. And corruption is a big word, and corruption is the pain of this society and democracy. And when I talk to this society I don't talk about Croatian society, I speak far beyond. Democracy is not a protection against corruption, and not even a democracy that is explicitly understood, which says on the first page that is usually written on the first page of a book on democracy that has about 600 pages, is it, and the first one says it is the rule of the majority, right? So when there's 100 of us, if 51 says it's like this, right, then that's enough reason to make a decision and no one can tell us we weren't democratic. But in the other 599 pages of that book, there are exceptions, not only exceptions but also ways to do so. And ways to protect that most of them, for example. in this case 49% because it's a lot, a lot of people and ways to protect and those who are small, even so small that they can't, that they can't influence. So democracy is not, rather a comparison between Leninism, Marxism in Leninism and Democracy has been made, I agree essentially with that, but then we should say what we mean by democracy. Democracy is what protects everyone, not most. And protecting everything is a huge job. In fact, protecting everything is a job that's almost impossible. It's possible in utopias, but it's impossible in a society that functions on the basis of today's legality of the functioning of society. So it's about a technical change that concerns real, essential things, the reasons. When we talk about corruption, when we talk about one third thing. So we're talking about corruption offenders, and the third thing is, the third thing is penitent, right? Of course, the penitent will not mostly contact the occupier, although it is not said because we are protecting it insufficiently all three categories. So the applicants and the irregularities and the penitents and the applicants of this corruption. Why do I say that? In my very long political career, I met people from the country of my home culture that we call it from Italy, which only because of one application, only because of one threat of red brigades, when they came to visit Croatia to the border was protected, for 20 years they were protected. You know how much it costs? So one threat never reached, 20 years 6 plus 6 in this case caribinere, so 12 carabiners were at the service of one man. With what we object to has the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the armor, with the armored car. I went a little wide myself, but let me just say that to those who are in danger of reporting irregularities, for those who are victims of corruption, they report it or those who are penitent, too, and also, they report to have a certain treatment, a certain protection in court proceedings. We act mostly sloppy and that's the problem that's essential. So the National Minority Club always protects the weaker. The attorney general also, in some moments of his work in a weaker way, and he knows how we reacted at times when, because of one, because of laws we disagree with, it's that it depends on the government's opinion, he knows when the government's opinion was, I don't remember whether negative or not, it was negative, right, I think... He knows how we reacted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So those who are the subject of control can't actually decide to actually decide and the controller in such a way that the controller, in fact, in that case the attorney general, or at the end of the line, the Parliament, is that, yes, to respond because they've put out some criticism. This coincides entirely with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure because even here those who report irregularities can actually be punished and no one can do anything. And the attorney general can also be punished, and in the future, we need to invent a method to be completely autonomous. Thank you. Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome the Attorney General, the Secretary of State. Today we have these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to welcome the fact that the Ombudsman has accepted the amendments or amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this Rules of Procedure. Amendments that now become an integral part of this proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, which have gone on to make much better the spirit of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity into this tool, which will be this service for the protection of applicants of irregularities within the Office of the Advocate General. Therefore, this primarily referred to the question of forwarding the application to authorised bodies, providing information to applicants on their rights and what is crucial and important to me, and not based on what my colleague Radin mentioned earlier, which is data protection, data protection, identity notifier protection and everything that should actually be the protection of one who is fighting corruption, who has courage and who has both the legal possibility and protection when it comes to reporting certain irregularities. And the fact that it is now included, I think it is good, and because of that, as Col. Simic said, the HDZ Club and then every single representative from our club will support such a proposal with such changes. I think it is important here to note that these changes have strengthened and given one better meaning to this tool, this Rules of Procedure, and then, of course, what we hope for, the good work of that service. Why? Because the law we passed seems to me in the middle of last year, somewhere in July is the one that needs an instrument for the state to better team up in this fight against, to a greater degree of transparency of public work, but also of course private businesses. When we look at all the theories of socially responsible business, ethical business, then the question of whistles, that is, the issue of the protection of applicants of irregularities, is one of the key tools that the state can open up legal protection mechanisms to prevent, firstly, and secondly, when there are irregularities, that we have those within the system, within the company itself, to see it, to report, to refuse to do an irregular, illegal, immoral action, and to be protected again. But it was also seen that not only was it not enough within the company itself, but one external application should be made available and this one will go to the attorney general. I think it's clear that the ideologically we have our differences, and we've never hesitated to make it public, but we're making an argument, but it's good that no one has any doubt that the attorney general will be some tool of the ruling party or the ruling majority, therefore, those who will go with such an external application know that on that side, there will be no consequences but on the contrary, that they will be protected. I think it was also the intensity of the law, to strengthen precisely such mechanisms because, as we have heard before, we are talking about democracy today. I think it's important at this very time when we're fighting this crisis and this pandemic, but in the background of that, and if you want, a global competition, whether totalitarian or authoritarian regimes are better at curbing that or Western democracy, some will say liberal democracy. In any case, free political institutions, democratic institutions. Of course, we want Croatia to develop in this direction, and we from this Christian democratic position want that very kind of democratic system to protect every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203603	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203604	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Stier, I am familiar with your views on the fight against corruption and clientelism in Croatian society. So, the law, so long as it's called the Whistle Act, that's what this government has proposed to the HS, and we voted it in seven months. When we talk about corruption, do not forget that we and within HS have another body, in fact a national council dealing with the monitoring of the corruption strategy itself, and there are a number of applicants who, either in writing, orally, in writing and in electronic form, provide us with their comments that we continue to forward to the competent authorities. What my colleague Radin used to say before you when he talked about corruption in our society, I want to say since you're a career diplomat and you've been in many countries, you know that no society is immune to corruption in less or, or, or even more, to those countries that we talk about, which are on Transparency International as Germany or as Denmark, when talking about non-corruption countries have large forms of corruption that may be less talked about than, rather than in our society. Of course corruption is an evil that needs to be eradicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203605	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203606	Thanks, buddy. You said well and you don't need to be in diplomacy, but, of course, my experience can confirm what you mentioned, corruption is one phenomenon that can't be attributed to just one country, only to one group, it's everywhere. But I would recall there perhaps the words of Lord Akton who said "authority corrupts, absolute power absolutely corrupts". So democracy is precisely the mechanism that will limit power, which will have a system of control to curb corruption, in order to curb one misuse of a public position for private interests. As much as we have this mechanism as you mentioned to combat conflicts of interest, today we talked about a mechanism, which is the protection of applicants of irregularities, but of course the work in, in the fight against corruption includes this part of the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203607	The next replicas of the respected representative Karoline Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203608	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Stier, you mentioned some ideological differences that exist between HDZ and the attorney general. Well, I didn't expect you to be looking at this action, the work of the attorney general and the attorney general compared to the ideological differences on the person who is now acting in that capacity and can, then, can you use someone who is ideologically close to you to subjugate or, as you said, use it as a tool in the hands of the ruling party. So, we in HS regardless of who we agree ideologically with, who is at the head of an independent institution, we need to look at the functioning of an independent institution in the context of the Constitution and the law, and not in the context of whether someone is closer to a political option, I don't actually know about Mrs. Vidovic, but it doesn't matter. So ideological differences and ideological interpretations should in no way affect your thinking and your assessment of the work of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203609	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203610	Thank you, dear colleague. On this very trail I was talking not about some ideological differences of the club representatives but about us for a long time and we know each other and we have really different ideological views and I just wanted to point out that despite what is important is the importance of the institutions. On that trail, it seems to me that your debate has been going on, or your question, and that's exactly the fact that we have to affirm here if we want to further develop our democratic system. So that's what I said and tried to explain, and I think that's important, that it's important that we can have in a democratic plural society different ideological views, that we can bring them out publicly, reasonedally, but of course we all have to work for the common good and respect the institutions of our democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203611	The following replicas of the respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203612	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, with your discussion, I might agree. The openness of public administration and transparency is something I personally agree with for at least the last 10 years and it is an excellent prevention of corruption. And when honesty and work in the public administration become valued, appreciated and protected, then we will know that we are on the right track and that we are going in the right direction, which you have pointed out. The D.A.'s office has given these changes one pain in that direction. I would say that this is one of the better tools, and in this sector we should welcome it as you have welcomed and welcomed these changes because every step that goes towards better openness, transparency and the protection of honesty in the public sector and work, I think it is something that deserves every praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203613	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203614	Thank you colleagues for these words that would encourage me, just to point out that there was also the will of this ruling majority and HDZ in this sense to establish such a service for the protection of applicants of irregularities and that there is such a mechanism of external application with the attorney general, therefore the will of this ruling majority to strengthen our democratic system, that it develops, that simply our country works better and better to protect the applicants of irregularities. In that sense, I think that your question also confirms that it is political will and HDZ, we have confirmed it or articulated it by passing the law in the middle of last year, and today with this Rules of Procedure it is going to be implemented and given an effective tool to the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203615	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, as in that debate on behalf of the SDP Club, I will stress my support for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Advocate General and the general work of this independent institution. I say we won't have a chance to discuss probably in this conference about your report for the past year, but since we are in one situation of health and then unfortunately economic crisis, I think it's important to stress that your institution has also pointed out that in these times of crisis it is particularly important to focus on the fact that human rights are actually respected and that no decisions, any decisions, whether it is about headquarters, whether it is about government, whether it is about decisions made by other bodies, should not remain such that, therefore, human rights are diminished, must not remain non-transparent and must not become the basis for in some way narrowing the rights that would last longer than this crisis period. In your report for the past year, you pointed out that for the first time in fact the most numerous complaints of citizens and citizens were on the state of the health system. And I think it's very important to talk about it right now, just a few days after the health system slowly returns to normal. You were in the last year, the report said in more than 5,000 cases, of which you had about 2,500 new items arrived and precisely among these new complaints were about the availability and quality of health care. In the past month and a half, we have witnessed both the expertise and the sacrifice and humanity of medical staff, or not health workers in the health system. A system which, despite the various less or more incompetent or competent ministers who led it despite never really the end of the planned and implemented health reform, we have been able to break down over the past 30 years. Fortunately, we have remained in some parts of the public health model from the former country, and it actually seems that we can also be based on this one, as we officially say, a favourable epidemiological image that we have today. However, we now face a double challenge or a double challenge in front of Croatian citizens is what is called a return to, therefore, normal in terms of the waiting list they are waiting for in hospitals whether they are talking about first checks, whether it is about checks. So you stated that the average waiting time or the average waiting time for the first review in the last year was 145 days, that would mean about 5 months. I think that in any case it is something that the health administration is now going to have to deal with, whether it is a current minister or one who is coming or coming after him, and it will actually be seen how much and how much trust will continue in the health system. You have warned that there are no teams of family medicine, no gynecologists, no pediatricians, we have been facing this problem lately, especially in the Zadar area. We will see how your report will actually be shown this year or year by the Croatian Parliament. If, by returning to normal in the Croatian health system, nothing really changes, so we continue to die of treatable diseases such as breast cancer or uterus cancer, then let's say that the health administration of this coronary crisis has learned nothing. For me, health and education are top political issues, and I believe that both health and education policies are one of the most important development policies and the issue of actually the strategic commitment of a country and human rights, which is naturally witnessed and the complaints that go to your office. So, I welcome, in any case, the efforts you make as an independent institution, I welcome your courage and the need to make public without furrying, without delay, regardless of the criticisms that come from the ruling party, and I am sure that in some next session your report will absolutely be accepted by the vast majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203617	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203618	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Leakovic, in your debate you have connected this law, these changes to this crisis and all the problems that occur in the system of health related to the coronary pandemic, and I think you have well connected it and pointed out the importance of reporting any irregularities that may occur, and this Rules of Procedure should also go in this direction, although it is a question of how much the Rules of Procedure can contribute if the Government has not provided sufficient resources for the work of this instrument to protect the whistles in the Ombudsman's office. The GRECO Council therefore also indicated that there are major problems in the crown of the pandemic from various corrupt risks in the health system, so I hope that at least symbolically what we are doing today, as well as the proposal that the SDP has put forward in the procedure for preventing the corona of profiting will contribute to the fact that in Croatia we are not in a situation that the poor, sick suffer from the profits that exist at this time in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203619	Dear representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203620	Yes, counterpart Jovanovic has been sent to parliament procedure, but whether anything will happen to his adoption is a big issue. And the State Inspectorate, led by, unfortunately, by a completely incompetent person, has certain powers to prevent the corona from profiting, in order to prevent this ferocity of prices especially when it comes to medical supplies and therefore about living foods. However, we can see that it is absolutely necessary to invest not only in independent institutions in this sense in how to protect or encourage those who have some knowledge of irregularities that without fear of this irregularity reporting, but also how it is necessary to ensure that, of course, media freedoms so that journalists without self-censorship or censorship can freely report exactly what can happen in this crown crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203621	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak, and the next one will be spoken individually by respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203622	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The esteemed attorney general, state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. Here in my five minutes I'm going to try to say a few things about this day-to-day thing. So, in my replica, what I said is I have to correct, I didn't say that people who work in the Public Attorney's Office are dilettants, but that this job, or this proposal that was sent to HS, is dilettant, although I may have exaggerated here, I can say that it's pretty sloppy because in my opinion, the government has also warned you of certain things in the preamble of this bill. Afterwards, the Government discussed the protection of irregularities in the applicant's irregularity in art. 21, so in that whole sequence, I don't count it here now, as in Art. The 10th century 2 and the regulation of the powers themselves, and the Government has proposed a new formulation of the Article. 4th amendment and addition to this Rules of Procedure, which you eventually accepted and made. But the government does not suggest that these amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman are not accepted, but rather that they, as such, are accepted with these amendments, as we will do. What I said about the office's work, thinking about the people of the lawyers, the experts who work there that this kind of thing shouldn't have happened and that this should have been given a little more attention. Why do I say that? Because, instead, here and colleague Leakovic spoke about your 2018 report and when you read this report for 2018 on 288 pages again, the government referred its opinion to the 37-page page where it tells you that the government respects the independence of the attorney general, but suggests that you refer to the data of state and public bodies, that certain topics are not presented and assessed in the context of state institutions' data. Now, that's my personal position, and what's reading this report of yours, let's say I can't take the impression, so you're overly concerned with the ideology of this report, there's a lot of what's connected to the worldview in this report that maybe shouldn't be, and even in one part when we're talking about irregular immigrants and what you're through activist associations that gave you some information "Are you Syrious" or some other showing the way the state's police bodies behave in this case, you had to refer to the MUP or I'm the minister saying that these things aren't true, but actually alludate as if we're a bandit country. What is also not good, which comes from the Office of the Public Prosecutor when you talk about hate crimes that are 25 in Croatia, and in fact it is carried to you by certain media in different international institutions. I'll tell you, let's say, at the annual session of the OSCE Assembly, there was talk of a report from the Republic of Croatia and hate crimes that are 25 until, for example, one of Germany has 7913, the Netherlands 3498, Belgium 875, Poland 886, Hungary 233 etc., etc. Because these are OSCE data. Now, when we see what you're writing and what the government is saying, we don't know who to trust now, the government or you because your report is important to a common state in society and the very changes in the social climate itself. And when you say this kind of data and you bring this kind of recommendation, you don't actually see the context of the time we live in, and then you ask yourself how much you're a public defender you work as an activist or how you work as an institution objectively because when you show certain things, then you put them at a level of mass phenomena that aren't. And I'm saying that diplomatic representations in the Republic of Croatia and other international organisations take your reports seriously and are used with it in their work, which I personally don't appreciate because when I hear such things, of course, I react to those international institutions, I don't think that's good. Now, when we talk about some selectivity, you say, in your report, I quote you on page 202 and paragraph 3 "The part of Croatia is situated on the drawn Ustasha In or the greeting "For home ready" and its short for home prepared and hooky crosses". I've been paying special attention to, say, coming from Split here to Zagreb to see how many such things are, unfortunately I haven't come across many of them, it seems to me to be just one thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203623	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203624	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, here we are together in this mandate through the work of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, trying to influence the fact that trust in the system is growing in Croatia, but I do not know how much we have succeeded in this. So the latest survey shows that in Croatia only 4% of citizens would report corruption, 4% of citizens would be whistles, even 96% would not. It is crucial that citizens have confidence in the system. Do you not think, however, that the pressure of rulings on independent institutions such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, such as the Ombudsman, contributes to even less trust in the system and think why they would report corruption when we will only have problems in the environment and thus any law that we have will not increase citizens' readiness to participate actively in the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203625	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203626	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Jovanovic. I also know what you're doing through the National Council, and I know that we don't get so many complaints from the citizens themselves, we pass them on ourselves, that's what I was saying in my replica, and my colleague Stier. I agree with that. Look, we're a society, we're a relatively young society that actually went from one system to another system, we're hit by a war of refugees, we still couldn't build institutions like that, let's just say countries in Central or Western Europe, actually what we're trying to do. I agree with you that some people, not enough consciousness in the Croatian society to report corruption. However, if we are selectively doing things and we do not have complete data, it is difficult to tell the border only because of certain media reports or certain personal animosities, however you will, in the bodies of the state or public authorities, when they apply to a particular institution, that they are relevant, that, as such, they can be processed if there is insufficient evidence. So, perception doesn't, and... Actually, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203627	The next replica is the esteemed representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203628	Yeah, I feel uncomfortable again 'cause if I knew we were going to talk about the attorney general's report, I'd be prepared to talk about the attorney general's report. Yes, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure and the formation of a new unit, normally we're going to talk about corruption, normally we're going to talk about what can happen to whistlers or, but we're talking about ideological differences and we're talking about a report that's not the subject of today's debate, and I need to tell you Mr. Babic that I agree far more with Mr. Stier when he says that ideological differences shouldn't be obstacles to co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203629	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203630	Dear President of HS, thank you. So, dear colleague Radin. Law on the Advocate General in Art. 2 clearly says that the Ombudsman deals with the protection, respect for human rights and freedoms bound and established by the Constitution, laws and international laws. That's why I was talking about it, and I respect the institution and the independence of the attorney general, but I feel and see selectivity in certain things. Let's just say, if we're talking about such things as the attorney general's office, I referred to my colleague Leakovic, you've now had cases in Rijeka, defiled certain sacral objects, breaking up Lady Lourdska's statue, damage in the church of Blessed... The attorney general doesn't refer to it, it's hate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So she doesn't refer to that kind of thing, while other things are referred to. And that's why I'm saying, for the sake of the attorney general and for the office itself, and for all of us. Without selectivity, we would talk far, far different about that report, but also about what it is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203631	The next replica is the respected MPs Karoline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203632	Comrade Babiæ, you insist on these ideological differences, so be it, I don't think that's good when it comes to any argument about the actions of the attorney general. What bothered me, however, is that you are now relativizing hate crimes in Croatia. You're talking about what it's all about, just 25 hate crimes. So what's that about German 3 grand, 5 grand, 7 grand, that's nothing. Well, it's way too much to be one, buddy Granny. You say there's no Ustasha sign. I went from Split to Zagreb, saw one. So there's too much one, one cowardly cross, one U, that's all too much, you understand? You cannot say that there is no problem in Croatia of hate crime, according to minority peoples, especially towards the Serb in Croatia. So it's absolutely something that nobody who lives in the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether they're sitting on the right side of the assembly or here on the left or the middle or not, see, people feel it on their skin. So it's completely irresponsible for you to say that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203633	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203634	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Leakovic. You're right, one hate crime is too much. I just said that in certain international institutions, it is particularly apostrophe because your attorney general, she also has a universal report and this report by the attorney general every year you benefit from certain diplomatic representations and international organisations when she talks about such things. Then there's a mass phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia that's not, that's what I'm saying. So I don't want to discuss ideologically with you or anyone here right now, but I'm saying it's not a mass phenomenon. We can't talk about a mass phenomenon, I don't know, such signs in the Republic of Croatia when that's not true. They happen, in fact, when certain games happen, when some tensions may already be in a society that we once again create, institutions we, or the media, make them and people react to it, which is certainly not good. So, one hate crime isn't good, but I'm saying, compare 25 and I don't know, 8 or 9 grand, it's not the same, it's not about them, it's about us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203635	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203636	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear colleague. Here, I have been constantly following the work of the attorney general since I've been here at HS, of course I welcome and support him. But you've talked a lot about selectivity in your debate. Do you feel that there is, that, that the reports are selective and that they can be made and done to make it much better, and at what points of view do you think that this work or report can be improved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203637	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203638	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Maximchuk. If you have read the 2018 report on 288 pages, the Ombudsman shall make recommendations to all institutions, state and public bodies. We can talk about such things, but we must also admit that the government has given an opinion on almost 37 pages and is in fact warning the Ombudsman of some things that as such are not true. When I was talking about selectivity, when you look at the overall picture in society, then you can selectively extract certain things that, say, exist in that report while, say, other things have been ignored. So they neglect themselves, which is not good. So such a report actually serves certain phenomena in our society that people react to and it's not good and I don't like such reports, I prefer objective reports, one that would objectively talk about certain things, not selectively, which is really to read from that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203639	Thank you very much. We went far again and we talked in the report at least in connection with the Ombudsman, not with all other phenomena in society and beyond. But the final individual debate will follow will be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203640	Dear colleagues, Miss Vidovic. I think there's a saying that says this. The problem of the Croatian state says unspoken truth is worse than lies. There's no telling the truth. I don't know any, so I lived in Canada and France and America, there's not a single parliament, a parliament that doesn't, where there are no minorities where they represent themselves anymore, but in the Republic of Croatia. Not only the minority, I would like to see from the beginning of the modern Croatian state's assembly as far as Yugoslavia was in HS, it's another minority, maybe half. That's what smoke curtains are for. I think they are the most discriminated against in this country by Croats in BiH, Croatians in the diaspora, I will prove that easily. I've never heard of you, I've never heard of you, Mr Maras, I've never heard of you representing Croats outside the country. Let's talk about the Croats outside the country. You have, they have the right to vote, but the formal right to vote because they have to fly six hours from Vancouver and from Sage, it's pure flossula. They were good when they sent billions of dollars here and today they're sending billions, they're good. When they were saving our people's asses in the assembly, they were buying hundreds of millions for guns here and the Croats in BiH were giving, dying here, and what they had, where they were transferred, to some mosque. They spit on them every day, systematically spit on Croats, Bosnians, Herzegovians, I experience it in Zagreb every day so that someone doesn't spit on me Croatian general. And that's that former Yugoslav mental circuit that's still here. It's an anthropological question. That's not what you're talking about. What's the matter with Pisces? When, we are Catholics already, if we are mostly Catholics, Christians, when Mr. Frljić spits there by faith this aspect of Matija Babic by Christians, it is allowed That, that's, you shut up with you I didn't talk and sit down. [[Clip intrusion: Don't insult]] I'm full of you, I'll carry on, don't interrupt me and so tense, let's move on here, citizenship. Now let's talk about citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203641	Representative Glasnović, Representative Glasnović, please. Please, Agent Glanovic, let's do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203642	Now let's talk about citizenship. And here's my back, uh, this one interrupts me here, this idiot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203643	Comrade Glasnović, you get a warning, you can't act like one, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203644	Okay, okay, I accept the warning, I accept the warning. I'll take it. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] We can talk later, me and you out there, not now. Nationality. Let's talk about citizenship now. Croats still, we wait three decades for citizenship, Croats get citizenship. Three, the new law isn't on, on the table, people are looking for citizenship. We remember her, she, that Croatian folk... HNS, I will not say Croatian national shame. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Chile there are 500, 500 requests citizenship has waited down for years. People come to me every day, I'm on that Board of Representatives and Appeals. There's a man, 5 years old. He's waiting for citizenship, he's back, he's waiting. He came, but his citizenship was over a year ago, it's one of the red authorities of the former system... Put it on the table, a year ago it was over, it was that bureaucracy socialist. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Festival of Democracy, so much for voting. What about the European Directive on the return of violently seized property? Miss Vidovic, what's wrong with that? People die, they'll never come back. Millions of kunas have, the values here from the river you have that red Emperor Obersnel, the woman of the mother has her own property, it's getting worse, it's hers, it's hers, it's hers in the catastrus that's hers and it doesn't bring her back. Wait, a woman will die, all those people will die because not only mass murder has been committed, but economic violence has also been committed. The abuse of power. When are we going to talk about conversion and privatisation? This process takes time, who's being punished for it by these red directors? Nobody. Pre-fashion deals, bank accounts out there, they're fine, and they've created another generation of emigrants. From this party where Mr. Maras belongs, one man, one man boasts on the Internet the tenth largest mass murderer in the history of a bloody locksmith and thus directly defends and paedophiles. He was a pedophile, he was a child of 14 years old, your beloved comrade locksmith was a pedophile, just like Stalin was a pedophile, and since he was a pedophile of this Mao Ce-tung and that metal band and we keep quiet, we take off everyone's underpants, to the international community, and the floral hate speech, the Ustashaoids, it's not, it's nothing, it doesn't see any Ustashas here. Where are they? Who signed the Ustasha oath here? But we have people from the former system, there are the people of Miss Vidovic who have been typing a student at the University of Split code name Odyssey, he is sitting in the assembly. Is this a democracy festival? D's opening the archives to see who's where he worked for who? That's what they hide like a snake's foot. I'll do it again, ideology. Ideology. What kind of ideology? True, there are no ideological signs. It's a cover-up here, this is just one play of ex-humans, and we're welcome to Croslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203645	Mr. Glasnović, everything you've been saying has really nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure's amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203646	Well, I don't have to talk to Miss Vidovic ever, so it's my last chance maybe in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203647	So make an announcement, so talk to each other in person, and it's not, it's not, it's not a way to talk about things that don't really have anything to do with the point. Your Honor, Agent Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203648	Thank you very much. I was going to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203649	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, this first, first, was the first one to lift this violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203650	Thank you very much. I have to react, Mr. Vice President. I, from day to day, wonder how they go to tolerate this kind of debate in the HS that is arranged. 238. It's btw today. if you know one big day for the City of Zagreb, the Day of Liberation of the City of Fascism 75 years ago. And it's amazing that Mr. Glasnovic can call one great statesman a pedophile. So that's something the HS shouldn't be allowed to do. I beg you here is the bust of Vladimir Nazor who came on behalf of the government in '45. receive an application with the military and the release of the city to protect our institutions. So you just can't let that happen anymore. Congratulations again to the Zagreb and Zagreb women their day, the Day of Liberation of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203651	When he spoke as he spoke to you he got a warning, right. And other things are the question of the attitude of ideologies, and so in which I cannot intervene from this place, I can intervene as I did that he was speaking beyond the subject completely, as most of today's participants have unfortunately said in the debate, but good. Obviously, it's such an atmosphere that it doesn't want to talk about the subject, but it's spreading, so sometimes it's connected to something at least, at least it's tied to the attorney general in a way, and some of them are stuck away, but good. The Honorable Vice President of this House Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203652	Mr. Vice President. I was going to replicate, but there is no more Mr. Glasnović, so I ask for five minutes of breaks so that everyone can rest together from the last speech and so that Mr. Maras and Mr. Glasovic, as suggested by Mr. Glasnovic before he escaped outside, can continue the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203653	I have to give it to the Rules of Procedure and I'll see you in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MPs' club, although it is the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman, I must point out here and warn that we must consult on the growing gaps and problems that our fellow citizens in the Republic of Croatia have, the indifference of certain people who behave whether local, whether the state government and the problems that citizens face. Here we see today, I took a walk in the city before I came here, that citizens do not have a basic prerequisite for normal life even though they pay taxes and taxes, although the city of Zagreb should ensure normal living conditions in the city of Zagreb, over 40 days, here it means today it seems to me that the 45th day since the earthquake, the citizens are walking the streets of the public transport system is not working, the cranes are all over the city, it's all one big bullet and the thing that simply must not be normal in an orderly city in an orderly country. I must especially mention here that I am dissatisfied with the state's reaction. It is amazing that the law on the reconstruction of Zagreb is not yet in the process after 45 days, and that yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic threw crumbs to the citizens of Zagreb and told you here are 20,000 kunas after you spent hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas to restore your chimneys, to repair their roofs and to be able to live like that, despite the fact that tens of thousands of our citizens still do not have the conditions for living and do not, for example, have hot water. So 45 days in the country that holds the EU's presidency in the city of Zagreb, the metropolis of the country cannot get hot water from the state and the city. Today we are in such a situation and ladies and gentlemen need to wonder who is responsible for this. I'm sure the attorney general.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203655	I'll give you a break and I'll see you at 11.31. ... Okay, then we'll give the word on behalf of the promoter to the esteemed occupier, Lori Vidovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203656	Thank you very much. Therefore, these amendments and additions are indeed only about the technical harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure of the General Prosecutor with two laws, the Law on the Ombudsman and the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. The formulation as originally proposed was more linguistically in line with the current Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Ombudsman. The government has proposed to be more linguistically harmonised in the Law on Protection against Notifiers Irregularity, we have certainly done so without any problems since they are in preamble to both laws. So there's really nothing controversial about it and it's very technically this whole process. However, I think it is a good opportunity just to mention because many of you have talked about some of the challenges that we have seen since the law enters into force, related to the application of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity or the Protection of whistles, since there is still a great misunderstanding and ignorance not only of the general public but also of experts, and I see, of course, parliamentary representatives as to what this law refers to, who and how it protects and what is in whose jurisdiction it is. So far, we have received 46 individual reports of persons who believe to be reporting irregularities, and in this case, the Ombudsman is not an institution that investigates irregularities, we are merely forwarding them to the handling of the competent authorities, our responsibility is to protect the applicant of irregularities, so the whistler from possible damage in the context of a working relationship. So the whole series is a situation where there is insufficient understanding and therefore it certainly takes a lot of activities to educate and strengthen awareness of the rights and protection of whistles. Some of them, as Mr. Stier spoke and data protection or the protection of whistles. We have already had several meetings with the DORH and we hope that all we are doing, so all we are doing is to protect the applicants and our prosecutors and under other laws and strengthen citizens' confidence in institutions, it is indeed the first place. Although it is a matter of technical harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure, what this service is today, or by publishing in the National Journal, should be done, in no case is technical. Unfortunately this service is, will be empty even though in our budget of the Office for this year the resources for hiring people for teaming services are provided, I hope that by the end of the year will indeed come and that we will have the capacities and resources to truly fulfil all the duties that we must under this law in the best possible way. We have to say that in the earthquake, the Attorney General's office is significantly damaged, so we can't even go in there anymore, let alone work. It is still not formalized to make a second space available, which, of course, can, which seems to be only temporary and insufficient, but I mean that we are working under extremely difficult conditions and under these conditions we are trying to be available to everyone. The number of complaints, i.e. the number of e-mails we received this year from March 15th to May 1st, is 30% higher than the same period last year. It is also important to point out that, in relation to the independence and institutional framework of the Ombudsman, last year after extremely long, deep, complex accreditations carried out by the UN body, the Ombudsman received the recredit of status A as an independent and independent institution in accordance with all the highest standards required for such an institution. For me and my office and my team, it's the biggest recognition and feedback on how thoroughly, quality, independent, independent and in line with international documents we do this job. I will not use this opportunity to talk about other segments of human rights or the report. In doing so, I must point out to all of you that I am actually disappointed that you are not better informed, so the reference is not the 2019 Report submitted to HS on 31 March despite the crowns, earthquakes, inability to work and all other difficulties. Unfortunately, HS did not discuss the 2018 report. I don't know if it'll be for 2018 and 2019. My mandate is also coming to an end, and I don't know as well as some of you, here, some MPs who used this pay phone for pre-election talks, probably this is also, the last address from this pay phone, if the Assembly doesn't discuss the '18 Report. and '19. by the end of the year. What I do not want to miss the opportunity to say is that, i.e. to thank all the employees and employees of the Ombudsman, as institutions who are neither dilettants nor sloppy dilettants nor merely sloppy, who are extremely dedicated, motivated, professional, valuable and whatever difficult conditions they are, indeed do their best to respond to all needs and to all the mandates of our institution and as regards individual complaints of citizens and their protection and as regards cooperation with the competent authorities, participation in the adoption of policies and laws in international cooperation and all other tasks that have been given to us, and I am sure that this will continue in the future. Thank you once again for your support in confirming this Rules of Procedure and we will continue, hopefully, even stronger, more teamed and stronger with this Rules of Procedure and the people I hope will be able to work on this mandate, continue this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203657	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203658	Thank you, Vice President. Ma'am. Vidovic. Therefore, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure aim to ensure better preventive mechanisms in Croatia to prevent corruption because when corruption happens, the damage has already been done and, in fact, it is difficult to correct all the evil it has done. So it's important to prevent corruption from happening at all. Thus, the protection of whistles is crucial, as is the protection of the work of all other independent bodies. The Attorney General, the Commissioner for Information, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, independent media are the main defences in preventing corruption from happening at all. I'm glad you finally got the funds to get your Office teamed up because too much time has passed, and that's probably why citizens in Croatia still don't trust institutions and don't report corruption. Of course, it is also very important that education for civil society and democracy that children of the earliest age understand that corruption should be fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203659	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Attorney General, I must admit that I am extremely surprised with this information that after 45 days you still have not been given the opportunity to continue in the full scope of your job since the earthquake and that the premises are impossible to work. I suggest that the president of HS intervene in person because you answer to HS so that the state can provide you with space so that they can work. On the other hand, and on the other hand, that Croatian citizens have someone to address in the protection of their rights. And I am taking the opportunity at the end of this debate to congratulate you personally and to thank you for your dedicated work in your term of office. I hope you will have the opportunity to still do this job and continue to act in the attorney general's new term of office. Thank you very much for your work, and I think you do, as well as yours. The employees you did the job on [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The best possible way. [[Intruder: Next Replication]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203661	He's a respected representative of Karoline Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203662	Your Honor, ma'am. Attorney General, I am in my own, in my individual discussion I am talking about your report for 2019 which you delivered to HS which is, of course, as always very detailed, informative and full of the data you draw from different sources. And of course you could do your job in the D.A.'s office even better if you had staff, organisational and financial more resources, capacity and opportunities. And in this context, I would like to join the appeal that Mr Banužić, the Minister of State Property, will, under urgent arrangements, be physically placed in the administrations of the attorney general so that all citizens who do not have access to the Internet, who are not able to use the Internet, who are not able to do so, or phone you, can subscribe to and present their problem and provide them as Croatian citizens and citizens with access to all institutions and the most important institution that cares about respect for their human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203663	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. The esteemed Attorney General. So you're saying that a good opinion about your work has the bodies of the UN and that's why you got category A, but you're categorized in category A and that makes you very happy. But you are the authority of HS and you should rejoice in the opinion of the Croatian people, the Croatian regiment of an institution that is true, which is objective, which does its job in the best possible way. Speaking so, you said for 2019 that you submitted a report to HS under difficult conditions, we saw that report that you handed it over, but you also said that the public expert and... parliamentary representatives did not understand it enough, which is not correct, is not correct on your part. And when I said about the sloppy work, I said I said I wasn't talking about people who are dilettans in the Attorney General's Office, you used this pay phone again to say that they're not people who are dilettantes and who are sloppy. This proposal that you made is a sloppy proposal because if it weren't for the government not to have 14 interventions on one Rules of Procedure which has 20 articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203665	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203666	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I have to say that the truth is that it hasn't intervened in space. The president himself sent a letter to the Minister of State Property asking for the problem to be resolved. But my replica refers to the report. Namely, all those interested in your site can see a report for 2019 where you have seen that you have had over 2500 submissions, but what I think is good to have your recommendations for example. Even over 65% of yours from 2017 are respected. Some recommendations also refer to financial additional funds that are certainly not so easy to solve overnight, so here's what our public knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203667	Thank you very much. I see my colleague Zekanovic picked up, probably looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203668	That's right, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to consult further on this agenda point. Here I must point out that today in Croatia, an extremely important thing has happened, and this is a breakthrough of the coronary virus on the island of Brac, and something must be said in HS, and I will use these two minutes to do so. So, for those of you who don't know the sloppyness of some people today, we have on Brač Island 10-odd coronarys with a virus. The only place that was kept strictly strict, and these were Croatian islands, today became after Murter the focus of the coronary epidemic with the virus. The second place to be guarded were nursing homes, and unfortunately, there today was an epidemic of the coronary virus. I think this is unacceptable, that all the services and county headquarters of course and the national headquarters here have completely failed. Such sloppyness that someone who is positive on the coronary virus returns home and threatens the masquerading older population on the island of Brac is unacceptable. The married are desperate, extremely bitter, and this way they have my full support. This way I tell them that their anger is justified because what happened today on the island of Brač should not have happened. Someone has to answer, and it can't be nobody's fault this time, as it was about nursing homes, so someone has to answer. Why, now that the crown is a crisis let's say in the end under control there's this huge gap that threatens, I'm going to repeat the population of the Croatian islands in this situation I mean specifically to the island of Brac?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203669	A colleague, Zekanovic, of course, is a very important thing as well as the fact that many homes for older and powerless also got sick, not today but earlier, but had nothing to do with the topic, and the pause is wanted in connection with the topic, so I am giving you a warning. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And since they're all. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203670	The people of Nerd and Puss don't think this is for a warning, this is a very serious problem for them. Ask them, Mr. Rainer, whether this deserves a warning or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203671	I said it was a serious matter, and I gave you a warning because you were acting past the Rules of Procedure, so I gave you a warning, not because you mentioned something that is very important. Well, that's what I said, so please don't get any points on it, it doesn't make any sense. It's a serious situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-08-0.u203672	The Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General, the Proposer is the Advocate General, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next decision. The Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman shall be confirmed in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 7 November 2019. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 121 for, 0 abstentions and 1 against, so we made a decision as proposed by the parent constituency body. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work, always the first day of the week when the plenary session is debated by clubs and independent representatives in their free debates, but before that I will only suggest that I base an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and '22. i - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Are we in agreement? Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
