ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's where I've been listening for almost an hour to our colleagues from the opposition who, without any delay, are attacking HZD, HDZ officials, calling out, are showing up for corruption and crime. I reported after a speech by my colleague, Vucelic, from the Living Wall, in which he spoke about corruption in the clientistic behaviour of HDZ members and HDZ officials. I would just say that the Living Wall has fallen apart because of a single salary of representatives in the European Parliament. They could not agree on who would take the salary in the European Parliament who would be a representative in the European Parliament and then the Living Wall simply fell apart and all their efforts for a small man, for legality, for the care of Croatian citizens fell into the water. But I also reported on the claim made by my colleague Maras in which he spoke about the Constitutional Court’s decision on the Waste Management Regulation. It is not true that the Constitutional Court has assessed the regulation in an anti-constitutional manner but has suspended it until a final decision has been taken to prevent its implementation from causing possible damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by such implementation of the Regulation. And the Constitutional Court did not do so on the grounds that, in a single unit of local self-government, there was an increase in double or higher waste disposal fees because the Constitutional Court will not decide, that is, the exclusive jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, but I am definitely saying this because of the Waste Management Act and because of the Regulation itself, rather than the Constitutional Court has assessed whether, in accordance with the law and the principle of the polluter pays, the establishment of a waste disposal fee can mean a fixed and variable part. It is doubtful whether the regulation requiring the payment of the export of waste on the basis of a fixed and variable approach in accordance with the law and the basic principle in the management of waste that the pollutant pays. So not because a single unit of local self-government, it was the city of Zagreb or any unit of local self-government as of February 1st, intended to increase and increase the compensation for waste disposal rather than before making a decision on whether the decision under the law and the Constitution suspended its implementation until the final decision was reached. This is a very important distinction between what you are saying and what the Constitutional Court is saying, and so I took this word to stand up for the law itself that was passed during the SDP government and that the government had no knowledge or opportunity within three years after the law passed that same regulation. While you've had time for three years to follow the law you've passed yourself, prescribe a regulation on how and how to deal with waste in the Republic of Croatia in every unit of local self-government, you haven't done it. This government has made it, and now you're talking about clienteleism, corruption in the implementation of that decision itself. So this is very important for the emphasis when it comes to the very regulation on waste management in the Republic of Croatia. I also think that in the Republic of Croatia waste disposal should be paid in accordance with the amount you produce both in households and in the economy, and that, as part of the regulation of the price for waste disposal, there should be no fixed part but only a variable part, but there should be a lot of assumptions for this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181306	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181307	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, my colleague Bačić was not telling the truth here and I have to get to know the Croatian public. Number one, the regulation adopted by the Government under the Law on Public Waste Management, is not legal, everyone knows it, you know it, but you brought the other thing, it is unquestionable that because of this regulation HDZ allowed units of local self-government and so Bandic to collect the waste of waste in the city of Zagreb. That's two facts...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181308	.../Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Maras./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181309	... The SDP counseling club...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181310	Comrade Maras, I'm shutting down your microphone because you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a pure replica, please sit down and get a warning. ... Please sit down, colleague Maras. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Wednesday is the beginning of this week's session and as always the presentation of the views of clubs and independent representatives. A colleague named Bauk asked him to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181312	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that it has been delayed, at least that's how I'm being told the vote on Friday, I would like to warn you that for almost two weeks now, our new representative cannot swear because there is no vote to confirm the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I would ask to ensure the possibility of today's debate and to vote tomorrow on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. There's no point in running out of counsel for these reasons we said so. I'd like you to be able to secure that during tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181313	Okay. The vote was scheduled for Friday, I transferred it to next Friday, given that we do not have a large number of points, and also a number of MPs from the ruling majority announced that he could not be here on Friday, so I will see little, but it would be good to carry out the consultations in order to confirm the mandates not only of your MPs but also has a colleague, Kujundzic, and we will see if we can ensure that tomorrow, at some point in time, we can secure the quorum. Okay? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Let's go now with attitudes, first up is the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Drazen Srpak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181314	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable fellow MPs. The state of security in Međimurje is not well. Every time politicians come to Međimurje, they praise the Međimurci that everything there is wonderful and great and valuable. The Međimurians were valuable, but they had to learn this through history because for centuries they had been torn from the queen so they were forced to get along and work hard. The Međimurians are peaceful and tolerant and want to live in peace from their work without asking for anything special. But recently almost on a daily basis, very bad things have started to happen that make life quiet and co-existence impossible. The portals and weeks scream with headlines of robbery, theft, robbery, violence against the elderly, attacks on the official. The Roma minority has lived in Međimurje for decades, which has increased significantly over time. I've heard more than once that the Roma population settled where it was well accepted, which is in favour of the tolerance of the people of Međimurje. In the past, education and integration of the Roma minority have been neglected. Today it is not so, Roma settlements are mostly legalized and decorated from the IPA Programme, and some of them today have a better standard than not Roma. The town of Mursko Cresce alone has invested 2m euros, social rights are arranged for everyone, but because of unemployment, users are in the highest percentage of Roma. Despite the measures that the regional and local administration are making, it is not adequate to do so, but every day more and more serious incidents that make up mainly the same individuals from whom the Roma are already seeking protection and their spotting procession and distance from the settlement to the penitentiary or educational institution. There are often problems because especially in educational institutions there is no room and when police, social care and justice do their jobs they stay where they have been and thus become an excellent example to others that no one can do anything to them. According to information from the Centre for Social Care, Čakovec during 2019 requested accommodation for a dozen minors with behavioral problems. The requirements are addressed to all homes in the Republic of Croatia and they all received negative answers. They were put on the waiting list, but their accommodation was never realised. There is also a problem with fostering children who live in poor family conditions and relationships, and there is also a need to work on it. The system works, but it doesn't seem to be synchronised enough. The police should be the last to solve the problem, and today is unfortunately the first. Children should go to kindergarten, elementary school, finish their crafts or other schools and get a job, it's the process they're working on, but it should be put into this extra effort, and it certainly doesn't work overnight, but that process is necessary. Money paid through social rights must be used exclusively for use, not for alcohol, gambling and the like, and for those who do not respect it should not even be paid in money because they are ultimately hungry, and then it is a new generator of crime and all bad. I said at the beginning that people in Međimurje wanted to live peacefully from their work without asking for anything special. At the end of this exhibition, however, I would like to say that they are still looking, asking for peace, for peace, for all and for the majority of the population and for the minorities. Those who have sinned or continue to deal with crime should immediately be sanctioned and orderd, and the process of integration, education and co-existence should give full emphasis. All this is possible only in the cooperation of institutions, regional and local authorities and, of course, all people living in that area. Respect for the law is a prerequisite. Many Roma who work hard through public works, work for the common good, or are employed are evidence that they can and should be an example to everyone else, as well as to bring down prejudice toward them. Police should be adequately equipped to be able to act effectively in both prevention and resolution of any unwanted events. Prolonged stay should be introduced into schools to keep children in the cycle of education and education as long as possible, thus creating preconditions for easier and faster integration. Only a whole system of common forces can do something about it, and most of all it is necessary to change consciousness. Things have gone too far, they're out of control, and they need to be dealt with urgently. And the majority and minority people who live there in the common space want life to take place peacefully, without excess in labor, order and co-existence. With this exposure, I wanted to point out all the big and more frequent problems and look for solutions for the good of all the people who live there. There's a petition from Kotoriba to reopen the police station, of course we'll pass it on. All units of local self-government in which a significant number of members of the national minority live, have increased costs and should be compensated with a higher percentage of income tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181315	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181316	And the final presentation of the Club of Representatives will be that of HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181317	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd rather burn with Anta Tomic than live with those primitives in Imotski said MP Nenad Stazic of that same people here in HS and no one, but exactly none of the politicians or institutions have stood up against this kind of hate speech. Our sponsor, HS, probably thinks it's okay because she didn't react, maybe it suits her when Stazic actually thinks that's the way he thinks about the Immigrants. In which state would it be possible to represent that people you represent in that same home in HS, and you call them primitive? True, counterpart Stazic, unlike many from the loud minority, noticed that the carnival auto-da-fea in Imotski was not about the child but about his character. And he is not surprised at that, knowing what he has been saying over the past year about the sanctities of the Croatian people, about the Catholic Church, the priests, the defenders, the Homeland War, Vukovar, and that in May of '45. The job wasn't done thoroughly. And that, according to fellow Stazic, should be satire, and the carnival in Imotski should be a crime. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Carnival customs from the north and south, from the east and west to the Republic of Croatia are different, but they are all consumed by satirics, through wills, through finding the culprit mostly in public figures. The first public statement by the newly established president of the state of Mr. Zoran Milanovic, who I paraphrasise here that customs and tradition should be changed because these are not good because they are contrary to European values. He will thus see us set up an ideological world-era committee that will determine how to dress, what to wear, how to speak and what to sing to Croats and Croats. He thus agreed with his party counterpart, Mr. Warrant Social Democrats Arsen Bauk, who immediately hurried to Imotski to sue the people, filed criminal charges against the Croatian people. For Arsen, there is no more court that would condemn the people on the spot and then escort them to Goli Island. His only weapon is criminal charges. In his three mandates and in the term of office of the minister of administration, therefore for four years he was never in Imotski and asked the people about the problems that plague him, why he emigrates, he is now found to sue him. Shame on you, Comrade Bauk. Imotically, it should also be sued that it hangs on the pillar of shame, and the Rivers should be admired for example because its mayor dressed as a good and wonderful lady, who transforms for this mayor, Ivanka Broz, the wife of Communist dictator Broz, to him it is modern and avant-garde and it should not offend anyone by Mr. Bauk. In our country, it is allowed to mock Christian values, national sanctities from various trails, Bauka, Vidovićki, Frljić, Veljače, Novosti because it is all satire and artistic freedom, artistic expression, but when the drink just turns a little upside down or it is critically reviewed then it is a scandal and a criminal act that makes it retrograde, primitive and backward hearth. We, I'm actually fighting all the forces against such a liberal relativism. The carnival procession in Imotski and the two Stazic dolls are an illusion of the adoption of gay couples' children. True, they were also led by gay contributions and the burning of heterosexual dolls in 2012 and I know it's not pleasant, but gay couples are part of society and are subject to criticism like all of us. The truth is they are a minority and there should be very careful. The property and the Imotsky have nothing against homosexual couples, but they are opposed to allowing them to adopt children. Who knows, maybe one day they'll agree to it, but today they don't agree. They're against any hate speech because they know hate is a poison that kills a poisoner. The property, fellow Stazic, are not primitive people but noble and good, pioneers of the desired Croatian freedom with the first sacrifice of the Homeland War, Josip Jovic and 240 fallen defenders, many of whom were members of this... whose privileges we all enjoy in our country. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Like Mr. Stazić and I at the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Excuse me just one more sentence. To those who are never [[Intruder Reiner: No more.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please don't let them help those who don't understand the satire. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Babic.]] One sentence, Your Honor. [[I'm asking you to stop.]] I don't think it's been 10 seconds long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181318	Let's not go too far. Because of his colleague Ostojic, he has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181319	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning and insulting of other MPs. I must explain, namely, colleague Babic cannot use free speech to tell others what they are and their constitutional rights. Among other things, cover, mask, or whatever you want to do to violate human rights can't be that kind of manifestation. Even President Milanovic didn't talk about what burned him, I don't object to what burned me, but the truth is next, you can't touch minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181320	Thank you very much. It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you learn already once, you are rarely here colleague Ostojić, so you could learn that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is very clearly defined and I will not allow the abuse of the institution of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure as I have never allowed in this Chamber to happen as it occurred to anyone, in order to express disagreement with someone's views etc. Therefore, there are other modes and other ways. Here's how the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181321	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 238 has been violated by the regular rules of conduct here in the Assembly. I know you're a river, lucky you rarely run these sessions, so you can't even tell who's there. As far as your allegations are concerned, I must say that as chairman, you should maintain order and defend the Republic of Croatia, and you often forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181322	Okay, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You abused it again, I won't give you a warning anyway. We are going to work rather than that way injure the Rules of Procedure which are not represented by the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181323	We are now going to the 11th debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181324	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The international community of the world, of course the EU, is facing two extremely major crises at the moment. On the one hand, the crisis over the coronary virus and on the other hand with the migration crisis. I can say, I believe that I share the opinion of you, and also very, very large majority of our fellow citizens, that our government, the government of the Republic of Croatia and with one and another crisis for now and at this very, very, very, very, I would say excellently cope. I said for now because none of us have any idea what extent one crisis can reach. So I said, I was very careful when I said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is implementing excellent measures at the moment and with regard to the coronaryvirus and the migration crisis. The mention of the Marrakech Agreement, in the context of these illegal migrations, has been completely missed. The Marrakech Agreement as a global compact or legal instrument that represents an upgrade of existing legal measures is at UN level for Croatia and for each other, 170 of them, as signed by the Marrakech Agreement at the moment, is a legally non-binding document. Although the Republic of Croatia is the signatories of this Agreement, it is the only one who has the power to implement those measures which it determines are useful to it, and none of them must. Therefore, bringing the Marrakech Agreement, which is a legal document and relating to legal immigration in the context and connection to this crisis migration in the Middle East and to the border between Turkey and Greece, is absolutely unknown to that legal document, and I think that it is, above all, malicious and was not in any position to deal with the position of illegal migrations which at this point threaten the space, above all, Greece, and then, clearly, the rest of the EU. And this particular example shows how important it is that Croatia is a member of the EU. Croatia itself could not do anything to participate in this process together with other EU Member States and now actively work in two directions. One to calm relations between Turkey, Syria, so if you want Russia, on the other hand, is actively helping Greece stop the entry of illegal migrants, primarily in Greece, and then clearly, by the western Balkan route towards Central Europe. And precisely those facts that we are a member of the EU, yesterday the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, as the EU chairman of the council, was at the border between Turkey, Greece and Bulgaria where measures were adopted that allowed Greece to defend itself against illegal migration. There's a second position in Greece today. Today, in Greece, there is a party that opposes missing migrants through Greece, unlike Syrisa and Cyprus, who dealt with the problem in a way that has missed migrants through Greece, and then they have come to the border of Croatia and to the border of Serbia and gone towards Europe. And because of this time, Europe has indeed decided to help Greece with 700m euros, we heard it yesterday, to enable it with strength, people and equipment to stop these illegal and illegal immigration. I say, this example has shown how many global organisations, and above all, I want to say in the context of Europe, the EU, enables my member to defend himself on the principle of solidarity against threats of any kind in this particular context, from threats posed to Croatia and the EU to enter tens of thousands, not to say, hundreds of thousands of migrants. For this reason, such advances, which are completely unfounded, except for the spread of ignorance, do not contribute to anything else, need to be organised as a state that is currently with 6500 police officers, with EUR 270 million from the European Funds effectively protecting its border, and the government has, for example, shown in the past few years that the team The means and strength of the Croatian police can give a good answer to this challenge [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you, Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181325	We are now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club and dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181326	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm taking this opportunity to point to an event from last Thursday at HS. It is an open thematic session dedicated to the Croatian national minority in 12 countries of Europe. In fact, we have organized this conference in fact that the position of all our national minorities has not been solved properly, and somewhere it has not been solved at all. There was therefore over 10 representatives of national minorities from Europe, they presented the position, the problems, made suggestions on how to solve their problems, and these conclusions will be addressed to all Croatian institutions for knowledge and justice. I would like to say, therefore, that this event has been prepared very seriously, almost the last 2 months and that of all the participants, and there have been over 50 of our countrymen from European countries where we have national minorities, rated extremely successful. However, I am saddened, and even angry, I would say, what one club used as a cause of attacks, therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia, based on the position of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. As I said, the state of Croatian national minorities is not ideal and that is why we organised a thematic conference. Otherwise, if it were different, there wouldn't be a need to organize it. As for Croatian national minorities in Europe, they are not recognised at all, as is the case with Macedonia, Bulgaria, Slovenia. Where they are recognised as the case with Serbia, the state agreement is not being met and we know it and that's why we're working on it. In Serbia, the worst part is that Serbia does not even fulfil an interstate contract, when it comes to the representation of the Croatian national minority in the National Assembly of Serbia, and this was not used this time when a new Electoral Law was passed a few months ago, hence, no Croatian national minority from the minority list was re-entered into the National Assembly. Another problem we know and are working on is the fact that Serbia is trying to declare the sub-national Croatian communities national minorities, such as the Shockers, such as the Bunjeci, etc. However, a lot has been done in the last four years and needs to be known. In 2016, around 3 million kuna was allocated to all national minorities. During the term of office of this government, this amount increased more than double to 7 million kuna in 2020. When it comes to the Croatian national minority, 600 thousand kuna increased to a million and 300 thousand kuna. Advocating this government, the Central State Office, and the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which I chair, have resolved some things. Namely, land was purchased for the newspaper publishing house Croatian word in Subotica. Assigned funds for the construction of the Croatian House. Preko, among the main state committee, has been sent to open a Croatian language lecturerate in Novi Sad. The memorial house of Josip Ban Jelačić is being renovated, funds have been allocated to the Croatian National Council in Subotica. The work is to train our community in Serbia through EU projects to participate and receive these projects. Language learning is organized, textbooks are awarded, etc. So there's a lot to do, but there's a lot more to do. However, the question is raised. How to help the Croatian national minority? Whether flammable escapades or systematic work as this government does, and this Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I note that in 2018 we organised a thematic session dedicated to the Croatian national minority in Serbia. This kind of help actually reminds me of how fans try to help their club by throwing Bengali and cannon punches on the ground. If that were the case, one team would already be the champion of the Republic of Croatia today, but unfortunately it is not and will not be, but since this team lives forever, I hope that it will soon become, but certainly not thanks to the Bengals and cannon strikes but to the systematic sports work. That is why I also believe that the solution of Croatian national minorities in Europe, especially in Serbia, will be resolved in the way that the Croatian government and HS are working, by pushing for the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and then we have credibility. to seek to resolve the issues of the national minorities of the Croatians outside. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181327	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181328	Now it's Mr. Ante Babic's turn to be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181329	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the Ministry of Science and Education ended with an e-consultation regarding the rules on the number of students in the regular and combined classroom and the educational-educated group in primary school, that's this rule. Therefore, this regulation has caused more than 600 comments from educational staff, teachers, teachers, directors and head of the county departments of science and education. All comments actually deserve a special attention because they come from the profession. By reading these comments, we had to react to the fact that in April 2019, the ministry brought in one of the guidelines for the creation of a network of school institutions and education programmes and the document itself, when implemented consistently, would actually close over 170 primary schools. For example, in my Imotski, of 10, the other 4 primary schools that now exist and hundreds of district schools, of which 1209 would be closed because the document actually requires the county as the founder to examine the eligibility of school work. I remember when it was the '90s. The enemies claimed that all of Croatia would be seen from Sljemen. Are we, in fact, seeking that today, in the peacetime after the defense country, the populated part of Croatia will be visible only from Sljemen? At a time in real Austro-Hungarian, by places, let's say, our Dalmatian burns were built... with the water of a populated population, means that the then government has stopped to keep the population there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, in the former state, many did not cause the population to move to cities and the depopulation of villages and smaller towns because of traffic isolation and economic devastation. The modern Croatian state built a large infrastructure with counties, municipalities and cities, from water, telephones, roads, good electricity, schools, sports halls were restored, but the population continues to move out. The reasons for this are the employed population, i.e. unemployment, the real estate subsidy is mainly in urban areas, public transport in urban areas, kindergartens and mangers and some other benefits that are more in cities than in rural areas. After many institutions have been closed in these places, from banks, post offices, libraries, dislocated offices, in our small places such as Slavonia, Like, Dalmatian, Dalmatia, islands, there are still only schools left, and these are recently referred to as unnecessary and large financial burdens for the state budget. There's also a proposal for this new rulebook that I'm talking about. So in relation to the previous regulation, an article that explicitly mentions that the district classrooms, hospital departments, small island, mountain and rural schools, with previous consent, may also have fewer than the optimal number of students, so 20. Also, the proposal for combined classrooms is for anyone who works in the teaching non-executive for a quality form of teaching. That is actually what these professional and experienced comments are about. If the Regulation is adopted and implemented under that proposal, the exodus of the smaller population will be even greater because students will not be made available by the Constitution to be guaranteed the right to appropriate education. From Prevlaka to Danube, says the song, but really along the border from BiH on the move from Konaval, Vrgorac, Imotski, Sinj, Vrlika, Knina, Gračac, Banovina or Slavonia. For example, in my place, last year she celebrated 150 anniversary of existence and 195 years of description and threatened to actually close. I am therefore deeply saddened by the fact that some of our small communities despise and are ashamed of their origins and point out only the economic side of the justification for reducing the number of schools and classrooms. The guidebook has been an approach of past times, today we must not make that mistake and respond in time. We want our fellow citizens to continue to see a protector in our government, not a reckless move that may have an incomprehensible depopulation effect. Interestingly, when all strangers come to our rural areas, they admire the beauty of nature and the pleasure of life, do we always need someone else to regain what they are and what our values are? Life isn't a verse, and the earth didn't leave us our dories, it was loaned to us by our children. In a rule like this, an American wouldn't have any schools in Alaska, Russia in Siberia, and they actually have special care and respect for them. Let's do everything we can to leave them to our children as a country of equal odds and living conditions, and let's not take down a house for God's sake to kill a mouse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181330	We are now going to discuss the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181331	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, too, would like to express our gratitude and deep affection for our doctors, nurses, all the participants in the healthcare system who day and night care for our patients and who provide the maximum service to combat this major crisis that has affected the Republic of Croatia as effectively as possible. Also, everyone who is on the front line of the battlefield and police officers and soldiers and firefighters and inspectors and everyone who participates at the moment and are fighting the coronaryvirus to get life back to normal as soon as possible. So I have to say that I am really saddened by the fact that, among us here in HS, there are false prophets and messiahs who have simple ad hoc solutions to, in response to this crisis and send very dangerous messages, I would say to our fellow citizens that it is easy and easy to solve this crisis. And the fact is that, above all, more developed countries, Italy and northern Italy, which is the most developed part of Italy and Spain and France and the United States and England, are having major problems with the coronaryvirus and that they cannot find fast solutions to prevent further spread of the epidemic. I therefore believe that this approach that has been adopted and led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely appropriate, and this approach comes down to respecting the profession, respecting science, respecting epidemiologists who give guidance on how and how to act in order to stop or slow down the spread of the coronary virus to the Republic of Croatia. I was in the assembly 15 days ago saying that there was everything at that time, it seems to me, the 10 patients in the Republic of Croatia today, according to the latest information, 418, that we can still say that as far as possible in these frameworks we keep the pandemic spreading rapidly under control. Therefore, our message is to respect the profession, to respect science, to do as the National Staff asks us to do, and that is the best way to preserve our own health, the health of our loved ones, and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the measures proposed by the Government and adopted by the HS on Friday, there were then 63 measures which would aim at 30 billion kuna in financial terms, which also relates to the suspension of payments and the part relating to forgiveness and part relating to subsidisation or support for the preservation of jobs as well as moratories for loans, in the first row of HBOR, but also to recommendations to commercial banks for, for and the handling of commercial banks for the moratorium according to commitments, the credit obligations of our citizens and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that at this point should be the government's top fort and a focus to help citizens and entrepreneurs in this part. But what I would like to say is, in just 10 hours of implementation of the measures for support for jobs in the Republic of Croatia, it has been reported until 18 p.m. last night, we will probably have a new data, but by last night at 6 p.m. there were 14000 entrepreneurs with 71,000 employees or workers with these entrepreneurs. So it is obviously important from such a rapid spot reaction of our entrepreneurs that measures are good, that entrepreneurs believe that this is the way and how and how quickly in these moments help to preserve jobs. And what is very important to point out, it is that most of these, almost 80% of all job support requirements are submitted on the line and it is good and we call on entrepreneurs to continue without coming to the HZZ without any other possibility of social contact with employees to continue to submit a request on the line in order to make it faster, more efficient to implement the measure itself. It is clear that these measures are just the beginning, clearly that the government will monitor the state of the economy, the situation with the coronary virus and bring about measures that will be an upgrade to these first measures. In this regard, I call on the government to actively monitor the situation in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181332	The HDZ advocates' club will also make its position known and representative Branko Bacic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181333	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. During the morning, I heard that the Club of Representatives of the SDP asked HS to comply. 17. The constitution declares the state of emergency and prescribes measures, measures to suspend and restrict human rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus continue to fight the pandemic of the coronaryvirus in the Republic of Croatia. I said it yesterday, and today I repeat that we are not thinking about it, but at this point we are assessing that for such a measure that is prescribed by Article. 17. The constitution is not necessary to bring it. Namely, as you can see, HS is being ambushed, although under specific special conditions, but we are sitting and passing the laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure in HS. All this time we are clearly faced with, the biggest crisis that has occurred in the Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War, which is conditioned by the spread of the pandemic of the coronaryvirus into the Republic of Croatia. We at the HDZ Representatives Club give strong support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and give strong support to the headquarters, the National Civil Protection Centre, which proposes and implements measures to combat on the one hand the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and in order to enable the laws to assist Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian citizens, all employees in the Republic to make this crisis easier. And we will continue to maintain our respect for the profession. As you can see, epidemiologists and waist through the headquarters are talking about the measures that we at the HDZ Representatives Club support, and in this sense as HS we are... such measures shall be taken by appropriate laws and implemented. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, we also respond to the remarks concerning the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, which should be adopted in HS and on which we at the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ plead that the final text of the law that will be adopted will also be based on the assessments, knowledge and knowledge recommended by us and the civil protection headquarters and recommended by the Government of the Republic of Croatia deprived of any policy, any and all abuses. Therefore, we will wait for the government to manifest itself on all amendments, and in this context we will act in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the principle that the life of every citizen and the health of our fellow citizens and the health of the nation is above all things and in this way we will act. And what I hear from the members of the opposition parties is obviously needed by the majority to pass such a law. I would like to make it clear here, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications is adopted on the basis of Article. 83. The Constitution, which means most of all MPs in HS, because it is so prescribed and not adopted on the basis of an article. 17. The Constitution of the Namely, he did not declare HS in accordance with Article. 17. The constitution and the great natural disaster. Therefore, we will continue as the HDZ Representatives' Club to insist and support the Government to take our measures, and I hear that today at the government's meeting, the Prime Minister announced a new set of measures directed primarily to Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian farmers, the OPGs and all those who are truly directly affected by this major crisis over the coronary virus, and that in this sense, HS will, while meeting such measures that the Government will prepare and propose through its session, through its debates and through its full acceptance and clear, with the suggestions of the amendments that are going to further improve and allow for simpler lives and business for all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. So, to conclude, we are considering the implementation and decision-making of the Article. 17, but we hold that the Assembly is still in a position that it can work, that it can act, that it can debate and adopt all those measures that are prescribed by law and by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181334	We are now going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181335	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we heard the lyrics of Gundulić's "Himna Freedom" written by Ivan Gundulić back in the 17th century. But they didn't just... sing about freedom they lived and the first in Europe 400 years before the United States in the area of the Dubrovnik Republic ended slavery. But in the context of this crisis around the Coronal Virus, it's important that the ancients made the first in the world on July 27, 1377 at the eastern entrance to the city, built the Lazaret complex and practically introduced the first quarantine in the world, I say in a way that no one could have entered the city unless they had spent 15 days in quarantine. And now the question is whether we today 650 years, 6.5 centuries after the Dubrovnik Republic have the right to implement measures exclusively carried out on quarantine, the restriction of the movement of freedom of assembly. I think that today in the third decade of the 21st century, but we live in that 4th industrial revolution when we live in a time of digital society, when we live in times of power of electronic communications whether we have the right to remain only on these quarantine measures and restricting freedom, or we can take one step further to save a human life not only in Croatia but in the whole world. In this context, the Government proposed the Law on Electronic Communications, which meant obtaining certain information regarding the location of the users of teleoperate services. And I must say that, as much as I have caused contradiction in Croatian society, this law is not welcomed by any constitutional expert. Everyone said that the state has the right to restrict certain human rights and freedoms, clearly in keeping with the principle of proportionality. Some constitutional experts have fully supported the law, some have said that the principle of proportionality should be taken into account when such a measure to determine the geo location of the users of teleoperate services will be used, how long, how much time these data will be destroyed, who will monitor, etc., etc. Therefore, if there is any measure to be implemented in these times to contribute to the reduction of a human life in Croatia, it is justified for me and it will be made clear that we are in a democratic society in which we must take care of human rights and freedoms. But you have to say the following, which is that the fundamental human right, the right to life and that is defined by Article. 21. A constitution guaranteeing every right to life, and an article. 69. The constitution is about the right to a healthy life. Therefore, in order to allow our fellow citizens the right to live and to live healthy lives, we must do everything in our ability, clearly leading to the principle of proportionality, prescribe measures to enable this right to a healthy life and the right to live. I must say that the European Commission, I don't know how much we've come to know this, has suggested that Member States obtain data from teleoperators in order to define measures to limit the spread of the pandemic and the local transmission of the coronal virus itself. Therefore, what we have proposed, we have not sucked this law out of our fingers, this law that must help suppress the pandemic and spread of the crown of the virus must be based on the fundamental principles of the Croatian Constitution, taking care of the rights and freedoms of every Croatian citizen. And that is why we announced that, as a Club of HDZ Representatives, by listening to what we heard in the debate and in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society, we would refer this law to another reading so that we could, by respecting both remarks and suggestions, come up with a law that would really help combat this pandemic or an epidemic of the coronary virus. We also heard from one of our colleagues that Mr. Health Minister Willy Beros is self-initiatively implementing certain measures. Not exactly dear friends, based on art. The 16th Croatian Constitution of the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and this legislation prescribed these measures, which the Civil Protection Staff first and foremost implements on the proposal of the Minister of Health, and in accordance with the Civil Protection System Act. Thus, any meal in this way is certainly not welcome or are correct above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181336	I thank all those who participated in the free speech debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181337	The HDZ advocates' club will also make a free stand. In their name will be spoken by Agent Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So on behalf of our club, I was encouraged by Mr. Franco Vidovic, and his presentation of the position has just shown the justification of what I said yesterday on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club when it came to the implementation of the article. 17. The Constitution of the I understand, Mr. Vidovic, as I understand it, he has in a certain way praised the measures of headquarters, but for certain units of local self-government which, to which such measures concern the most rigorously, as stated by the island of Murter, he then cited the possibility and recommended that for such ones, appropriate measures, economic or others, which would return to normal life as soon as possible when the coronary pandemic in the Republic of Croatia ended, and in the world as well. But what I was saying yesterday, that's to make it active. 17 and by declaring a major natural disaster according to which article HS should take a decision and any measures prescribed by that decision should be taken by a two-thirds majority. I said it then and now I'm going to do it again, so I'd like to hear the advocate of that decision, what should that decision contain? How detailed should she prescribe certain measures? Would that mean that by that decision HS should tell me that some store can work, and let it not? Whether the decision of the assembly that we should have 2/3 of most should be made should we say whether any pay in Zagreb, Trešnjevacki can, and let's say Dolac can't. Would the decision also prescribe other measures relating to the ban on gathering, to the ban on movement. I believe that at this point it would be bad, because knowing how and in what way it is difficult to accept 2/3 of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, especially if such a decision would go into detailing certain measures and thus prevent the implementation of rapid measures that can currently be taken on a daily basis by an operational body such as the civil protection headquarters. I therefore hold that such a decision would be made by 2/3 of the majority regardless of what I think is not the situation in Croatia at the moment that we should act in accordance with Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as all state bodies including the Assembly, the Government, the President of the State, the Constitutional Court, the Judicial Authority, the state authorities, the local self-government operate without any problem with certain clearly defined restrictions but operate. So, I believe that it would not be good, it would not be possible to implement that on certain measures such as those around Murter or from somewhere else in Croatia the sea, because these are restrictions on human rights on freedom of movement, on freedom of assembly in the Croatian Parliament, each individual decision. And worse yet, whether or not I have not received an answer from those who advocate such a measure, should we then have another 2/3 of the majority and.../incomprehensible/... each individual law, when we have it in Article 16. Under the Law on the Protection of the public from Infectious Diseases, the Minister of Health in the Republic of Croatia proposes a headquarters and headquarters to make and implement decisions that enable the prevention of the pandemic of the coronary virus in Croatia. So this is very important and I wanted to point out that at this point in time when measures should be taken on a daily basis, certain stores, restrictions and other numerous restrictions in Croatia should be closed, that this should be left to a body that can be dealt with quickly, effectively, and not engaged in parliamentary debates which should then be held at 2/3 of the majority of such measures. I think it would block the work of the state, so it might lead to chaos, so it wouldn't be good. And that is why, at this point in time, as the assembly works, while the government, while all state bodies are functioning, should act in accordance with Article 16. The Constitution, to enable the prescribed competent authorities of the executive authority to act clearly in the principle of proportionality above all, that any measure must be proportionate in accordance with the conditions for individual human rights in Croatia and freedoms to be limited, and in that sense I think and understand what Mr Vidovic said should take care of the compensation for those who have suffered the most from such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181339	I thank you, tomorrow we will continue at nine and a half, with these laws that are now included in the agenda. Within the hour, you will be delivered materials for tomorrow's debate. Thank you. Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181340	We are now going to the 9th debate, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181341	Thank you, well-respected President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia has taken concrete measures to overcome the crisis conditioned by the coronary virus and they have positively echoed in public. These measures are also welcomed by domestic agricultural producers and would therefore thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again to the extent of the intervention buying-in of half a million gallons of extra milk that small milk farmers were no longer able to buy on the ground. I also thank you for your input of support for plant and livestock production worth 53 million kuna, and thank you in particular for setting the conditions of purchase of at least 60% of domestic products for procurement in the public sector. These measures will facilitate and speed up the sale of domestic products, which is a quality aid to our domestic agricultural producers. But it seems that this spring, the problem never ends, and here already today in front of the HDZ Club, I must point to new problems in the important agricultural sector, in the fruit sector. In fact, several days ago, extremely low temperatures occurred for this period of the year, from April 1st to April 3rd, and huge damage to the fruity flower. These damages will cause extremely great losses in fruit growing in the area of Brod-Posavina County, as well as the whole of Slavonia. Low temperatures from -6 to -3 °C have brought great difficulties for all fruit farmers, and the most represented fruit growers, apple producers warn that Idared apples began on April 1st, which means that the medium flower in the flower is completely destroyed and that the situation is similar in 50% of closed priests. A slightly better situation is recorded with Jonagold and Pink Lady where you can talk about the damage of 50%. Unfortunately, early varieties of low-temperature plums were also injured in the bloom, on March 28, 29, damages were recorded on apricots and peaches. There are 309 hectares of apples in the area of Brod-Posavina County. Of these recent low temperatures according to first estimates, there is damage of 21 million kuna only on these surfaces. Of course, these are indicative estimates and the real damage will be determined by the waist, but according to these indicative figures, we can conclude that the damage to the fruit industry due to this year’s low temperatures are extremely high. Allow me to suggest that, in addition to measures taken aimed at maintaining employment and existing production levels, we should also consider a reprogramme, or one-year moratorium of credit obligations in business banks for all those affected by this damage. According to the division of the business risk between insurance companies and fruit companies, it is the insurance companies which determine the amount of the damage, and since the total damage cannot be considered as a rule immediately, the damage should be seen in the overall production process to the collection of the fruits and in a partner relationship with the producers to determine the level of the damage. It is also necessary to consider a significant increase in the funds for the recovery of damages from natural disasters, and should also discuss the payment of one-off aid to continue the service of devastified fruit production as it was in 2018, when fruit trees received support of between €6 and €8000 per hectare due to the extremely rainy weather in May. Namely, fruit groves are multi-annual plantations that, regardless of the annual yield, we have to protect, we have to keep fruit trees in order to have a healthy plantation ready for a new breed next year and should definitely encourage the construction of ULO coolers within the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in order to preserve apples throughout the year to ensure the safety of the food and supply chain and protect domestic production. In fact, climate change is happening, extreme changes in weather are common and they are generally almost expected, so we can say that it is purposely to encourage the construction of a system that will reduce any damage to the elemental disasters such as frost protection, fight protection, drought protection, etc. and in this case, such support to agriculture is investments in modern sustainable agriculture of the 21st century. Of course, in this situation, we understand what the priorities are, but I hope that at these difficult moments we will not leave the fruit trees alone, so I call for the resolution of this problem and for the units of local and regional self-government, the fruit community, all available professional and advisory services to be included in a healthy partner relationship to show concern for all our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181342	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HND and the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is also Europe and the world is facing the biggest crisis that no one in the world expected before the crown of the virus in China, especially expected it to be this size. Therefore, 42 days after the first disease of the coronary virus has been established in Croatia, we can conclude with this distance that the government has in this past time brought a balance of measures that results in the state of the state of today in Croatia and this balance of measures that implies measures that go to protect the health and life of our citizens, which is first and foremost human rights, and on the other hand the balance of measures relating to health protection, if they can say Croatian economies, Croatian entrepreneurs and all employees in Croatian society. These measures related to the health and lives of our citizens, which brings the Civil Protection Staff, are based on the profession, and in any case, in recent months have resulted in the fact that in Croatia we have a linear growth in the number of patients, which in one way gives optimism that the measures carried out are very good. On the other hand, on two packages of measures we adopted in the Croatian Parliament that the package of measures related to March and these April that we adopted today speaks of the betrayal of the financial resources that will have to be allocated in three months for which they are announced. There is one table that can show how many other EU Member States have singled out financial resources relative to the level of their own GDP in order to respond and respond to this challenge that has put the coronary virus ahead of us. These data indicate that Croatia is with the measures that we have taken, and I say the part relating to the March measures and these today's April measures, and it only refers to tax write-offs and contributions amounting to a total of 9.6% of GDP. The EU average for such measures without credit guarantees which at this time no country can assess but only those which are tangible which can be accurately assessed at this time, the EU Member State average is 4.1. And if you take the median average that includes the number of citizens in certain countries, then it is even lower and is 3%. Thus, it says how consciously Croatia has entered this necessary financial amount to preserve the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs, to preserve their business and to preserve and support jobs and we will not stop there. Yesterday, HZZ has already brought in a measure that will allow 13600 employees who are employers out of fear that their maintenance will continue to remain on the labour contract, cancel their work contract and apply to the Employment Service will be included in these measures if, to this day, they report the same employees to whom they have fired the labor contract and they will receive 4,000 for April of the month, as all those employees who remain and who are employed with their employer. So, I say there are 13,600 of them who have since the day of the outbreak, so until the entry into force of this law were found at the Employment Office. And it won't stop there either. It would be best if the government no longer had the need for new measures, but it has already been announced that it will go with new measures primarily towards our fellow citizens and above all towards those who have been completed or blocked. And in that sense, it will go with new measures, I believe that we in the Croatian Parliament will discuss them soon. Well, in that sense, I want to express our satisfaction with what has been done so far, but we also expect the government to actively monitor the situation with the coronary virus in Croatia and react to appropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181345	And we're going to the last debate, dear colleague Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181346	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, during this morning's statements on behalf of the clubs, I heard rather incorrect statements that I would say were partly insulting and common sense. Namely, to say that the measures taken by the Civil Protection Staff are, on the one hand, extra-institutional, on the other hand that the Assembly is authorised on the third hand that this is because they were more important to conduct the internal elections are indeed political, I say, incorrect and insulting to all of us who have adopted certain measures and laws here in this assembly that we have prescribed the way the state bodies act when it comes to combating coronary viruses. I would like to remind you that the party's internal elections ended on March 15th, and that on March 4th, the health minister had previously declared the risk of a coronary virus epidemic, that an outbreak of coronary viruses had already been declared in the Republic of Croatia on 11 March. But most importantly, on March 19th, so almost a month ago in HS with 108 votes in favour and it seems to me one vote against, we have reached a decision on amendments to the Civil Protection System Act, where we have just authorised the Civil Protection Staff to, in special circumstances that threaten the lives and health of our citizens and property of the Republic of Croatia, empower them to make decisions and instructions that are required to carry out headquarters at lower levels, so the Civil Protection Staffs of local and regional and regional self-government units. By amending the law, we gave quite broad powers to the Civil Protection Staff, which is now based on it, amending that law and making it, not only makes it but what is important, it brings them, I would say, very effectively because, according to the data and the absolute number of patients and deaths in the Republic of Croatia and in relative numbers of relation to the number of inhabitants, the Republic of Croatia is among the most successful countries in the world. Therefore, such work by the civil headquarters is to be taken into account, the flossula, that it is a non-institutional, non-institutional leadership of the state which has ruled the assembly is indeed incorrect, it is politically unacceptable for me not to say dangerously, in such a way to talk about the measures adopted under the laws adopted by this two-thirds majority. And another thing I also want to say on behalf of HDZ. I do not allow this HDZ to have beautiful labels of incompetence, infatuation of anyone because a home, a nursing home in the Republic of Croatia, has entered the coronaryvirus. So, neither is it the only home of the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia to which the coronary virus entered, and let us remember that a number of health institutions in the Republic entered the coronaryvirus, such as the KB Dubrava Hospital, such as the Sister of Mercy, such as the Psychiatric Hospital for Children and Youth. So we have witnessed in several health institutions that the coronary virus has entered, which is from the experience of other countries both in Europe and in the world has been expected, but it is important that this really comes down to a minimum and that it is not much and that we are successfully struggling with it. It would be better not to, clearly, but it should be made clear and loud that everyone's responsibility will be determined when it comes to and if there has been a lack of attention or wrong decisions or if measures are not implemented. Therefore, do not run away from anyone's responsibility, everyone's responsibility will be questioned and the responsibility of each individual who has been unconsciously leading the institution or has contributed to entering that system with the coronary virus will be determined. But I'm saying this, one flat-rate in any case is not good or correct, and I don't let a nice HDZ label be used because then, with the argument "a contrast" then all that is well deserved is precisely HDZ. That's why you dear friends fall into one trap when you accuse HDZ of all that's good you should respect and take credit for HDZ. Here is no place to politicise, for politics, however, it is primarily here to take care of the health of our citizens, the property of our citizens and the measures that I expect the Government to continue to encourage the Croatian economy to continue its business as successfully as possible after this crisis is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181347	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181348	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I'm going to focus a little bit and talk about agriculture and importance, just the availability of food production. So who controls the food? It controls the people, and whoever controls the energy, the oil, controls the state. The strategy towards agriculture should be changed because the creation of food independence is a guarantee of the future. Are these accidents and accidents that we've been caught up in something that's gonna wake us up? Negative food balance, we import more than we export. By entering the EU, imports have increased 40%, and we spend more than 58% of what we produce. We have entered the EU politically prepared, but failed economy, especially agriculture, which was ruled by an import consumer, rather than a breeding reproductive production logic which is a characteristic of the EU's agricultural production. The problems associated with Croatia's agriculture for many years have deepened by entering the EU. Food imports to Croatia have increased, this time it clearly shows why. Now is the time to start production, remember the example of Russia when sanctions were imposed on it, there was a shortage of agricultural products, Russia made a turn and started food production because there was no imports. She started producing surpluses and became an exporter. What happened to Croatian agriculture, the wrong multi-year strategy. Croatia has excellent potential for agricultural development, has a quality country, plenty of water, tradition of production of a large number of agricultural schools and universities. Most EU members with more modest resources than us achieve multiple better results such as the Netherlands or Denmark, etc., investments do not deliver results from 2005 to 2016, more than 40 billion were invested in agriculture, an average of 3.2 billion each year, and 5.6 billion kuna support has been paid in 2018, and 14.4 billion kuna has been paid together for the last 3 years. So no one can talk about government and ministry carelessness. The results of these aid are not visible because the production value has not increased. In the external trade exchange, the deficit is greater than EUR billion. We export cheap unprocessed products, and we import those higher added values that have a higher price than fruit, vegetables, meat, dairy products. We export grain, and we import flour and pastry products. This time shows the importance of self-sufficiency of agricultural production. We can produce almost all the food for our own needs. The issue of ensuring quality, healthy and safe food for its own population is a fundamental setting for the agricultural strategy to rest. Now we're all aware of it, and by ruling and opposition, we can't stop, the crown will pass, but we can't stop and start importing again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181349	Thank you. Here's what we've done with our position, we're going back and we're going back to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181350	It is now up to Mr Branko Bacic to state his position on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, listening both today and yesterday, all these days friends of the opposition I really don't know if we live in the same country. We are witnessing that the world, that Europe, that Croatia is in an unrecorded crisis and when it comes to the global health system is showing this great state position, the action and the way of the World Health Organization, the countries that we have shown here in the Croatian Assembly as an example of the functional, reformed state, as countries of the great economy, high democracy, the organisation of health, pension, work system, have shown themselves precisely in this crisis, and one proverb says that all those countries that we have been calling for are not in a crisis that they have met for the first time in this crisis, and that they have been able to respond in the way that Croatia has responded. And that Croatia with all its problems, along with all its transition problems that we inherited as a sovereign state, with all the problems that we have encountered with the Homeland War, with everything that we are going through as a country that has gone through that transition has proved to be an extremely functional state. And colleague Bulj, that both in health and in health care, as much as we've attacked all possible governments, all possible ministers, that we haven't reformed health care, that we have a expensive health system, that this health system is often our own purpose. On the other hand, we are entitled that neither doctors, nor nurses, nor health care personnel employed in this system are paid or adequately rewarded, it has proved that this system is the best or among the best countries in Europe to deal with this crisis on the one hand, and on the other hand, although we are also in charge of about 70, 72% of GDP, we have enough strength because we are through the political stability that we have projected over the past 3.5 years and which stability then projected economic stability. Which meant increasing the number of employees and reducing the number of unemployed, which meant regulating public finances, which meant showing surpluses of the state budget, resulting in a drop in interest, an increase in.../incomprehensible/... activity, to the fact that our credit rating was raised to investment level. All of this enabled us to ensure that when we were able to defend ourselves to a solid extent, if I could say from the pandemic or the coronary virus epidemic, that we had the strength and capabilities in parallel with that to provide almost 10% of GDP in order to pump these public funds, forward to the real sector, and thus tried to preserve jobs, preserve liquidity and business activities, the entrepreneurial activities of our entrepreneurs. So despite the fact that here in the Croatian Parliament I listen to daily and mourning and narrations, demonstrations etc., etc., sometimes they are justified, but the fact that such a state led by this government can be dealt with through this crisis. That's what others say. And even that is said by our fellow citizens who have left Croatia because they have seen how and how the state treats employees, workers, entrepreneurs, and when there is not enough and when we know that what we are going to have to transfer to the real sector we will have to be in debt but the social sensitivity that has been shown at this very time has shown that both as a people and as a state we can be proud of. There are many mistakes, there are still more work to be done in front of us, but it is far away that the state is as I hear it here in the Croatian Parliament. And we have to, and we have to stress that 100 times. Often, when the Government refuses proposals from individual parliamentary or club representatives of opposition or opposition representatives, we ask why, and precisely because it is only possible to observe from the level of government what a measure proposed in the Croatian Parliament means for the integrity of the state budget because none of us has anyone who wants to do better and more but needs to be realistic and needs to keep the budget. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181352	Thank you, too. We're done taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181353	We're going to the 14th debate, dear colleague Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181354	Thank you, Mr. President. Listening to the representatives and representatives of the opposition, their accusations, remarks, slanders, it is shown how good it is that in this crisis that is unremembered in Croatia and Europe and the world, how good it is to have HDZ run Croatia. Gentlemen of the Resistance, you are advocating the old normal, and this is your old normal debate about partisans and Ustashas, your old normal is a barren debate on ideological and secular issues. Your old normal is perseverance in the conflict between the church and the state, your old normal is politicizing everything and working on Sundays. And whoever offers this old normal Croatia offers hopelessness and uncertainty, which is why I said it was a good fact that in this crisis HDZ manages Croatia with its partners. We must turn to new messages, the new behaviour we are as Government and as the ruling majority have shown through these two months, two and a half months as long as the crisis around the crown of the virus is in Croatia. In that period, we have shown as a community that we are in favour and show and show the highest solidarity, that as a state we are carrying out high efficiency and that the system is operational, effective and above all functional. This is a new way for Croatia to be recognized today in Europe and in the world, and for the results we achieve, and when we compare ourselves with others, to those who were examples of yesterday we show that we are able to cope, that we also know as a community to be solid, and that we know to be responsible, and that this system that we introduced shows excellent results, and when it comes to fighting for the health of our fellow citizens for the lives of our citizens, and by the number of people who are sick, and the number of dead and in relative and absolute amount we are at the very top. And when it comes to fighting for the preservation of jobs through aid that is at a very high level of separation from the state budget and in a very large proportion to GDP, and when it comes to the fight to preserve the business activities of our entrepreneurs and their liquidity, we have shown that we know how to deal with it and that we care first and foremost about the lives of each of our fellow citizens for his health, and that we clearly make sure that when we come out of this crisis that both entrepreneurs and the Croatian economy get back to that new normal that we have established. And therefore, listening to the opposition during the morning, it is obvious that the fear that lies ahead, this new challenge is in every step of any opposition advocate. Fear of the elections, fear of the results has obviously been advocating the opposition to reach for such qualifications and accusations that clearly our citizens do not recognise, however, give full support to the Civil Protection Headquarters and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in implementing the measures that are currently in force in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181355	This is what we came to the end of the debate, so now we're moving on to the agenda. We are now going to debate number 13, dear colleague Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181357	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. 15 days ago, just during a statement on behalf of the clubs, I was responding to the names of our opposition colleagues, I said that it was good for Croatia to manage this crisis by the government whose main supporter of HDZ is because I fear that Croatia would appear to have no solution for our colleagues from the opposition which, apart from the demonstration, is called HDZ for no crisis. The whole time, while fighting the crown virus that was still going on, it was hidden with soap, it was peeking, it was shelling out when the sun was going to branch, when a little situation would be fixed to get back to its old positions, and it was divided into Croatian society, returning to the mainstream of Croatian partisan and Ustasha politics, "For home ready", antagonising with the Church, showing headquarters because it allowed religious rituals to be held in Croatia with respect for physical distance, and that is what the programme of opposition comes down to when Croatia faces the biggest crisis and health and economic crisis. And not to offer solutions but everything they say, it is exclusively about antagonising society so that some political point might be sewn up in this antagonision. And I hear it here this morning from the opposition, nothing new, as if every Wednesday is repeated either politics or politicisation or conflict over ideological issues that have not been resolved or have not yet been resolved in Croatian society or on the other hand by screening, attack on members, HDZ officials. And I don't understand that. Dark Taritash, that Mr. Miranda Mrsic does not realize that the sharper their tone, unfounded, often a lot of lies, that the answer in the rating of their political parties. This is exactly the morning I'm watching where GLAS is, at 0.7%, where are the Democrats, Mr. Mrsic? There aren't, among the first 20 parties, you're gone, and don't you realize that as long as you're telling the truth here, you're eating at HDZ's expense, that your ratings are going down proportionally? I can't understand that you as a serious person and you and Mrs. You don't realize that for your parties, I don't care, but you should finally understand. Also, it has been trying for days to break the coronary virus into a single home in Croatia, in Split, to call HDZ, to name certain people who act at the level of the Split-Dalmatia County very important functions, who are fighting the Corona virus, who are trying to contain the epidemic in the Split-Dalmatia County, so if you want to do so in health institutions. In some, we failed, and not only in that home that Mr. Ostojić had just spoken of, but in other homes, a coronary virus entered. There's a coronary virus in some homes and... And in the homes of pensioners and health institutions, he has entered many nursing homes all over Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Ostojić, look at the official records, in Europe, and this in developed Europe, stronger, stronger, for you many and more organised than Croatia have cut down the old and powerless people in these very institutions, half of those who died in Western Europe are in retirement homes, how so? Is that where the HDZ directors might be placed on the political key or maybe they're not? Is it possible that the directors were placed there on the key of ability, reference, expertise, knowledge or are they set up by the key that you are constantly showing here, the key of the HDZ? And I remember, at a time and when you and Mrsic were in some other governments, that in Croatia without the crown of the virus in one institution, 24 patients died in a health institution because of system failure, health system, without virus. Was there a criminal response at the time? I don't remember that. Stavinic Rukavin has resigned as an honorable person. You weren't so loud at the time, you weren't looking for an investigation in the Government of I. Racan or the Ministry, that's when you kept your mouth shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181358	Thank you. We've come to an end with debates of clubs and independent advocates, so we're moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181359	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Bozo Ljubic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181360	... The recently held summit on the so-called The Western Balkans. [[Specially enabled.]] First of all, I would like to emphasise and acknowledge the Croatian Presidency for putting this topic on the agenda and, in fact, putting the EU enlargement process in the focus of the EU's interest in the southeast. On the other hand, I would like to thank the entire EU for singleing out a 3.3 billion euro crisis in this crown to help the countries of Southeast Europe and the Western Balkans, another 750m euros in aid to macroeconomic stability and 1.7 billion euros in the European Investment Bank. On the other hand, I would particularly like to point out here as the political representative of the Croats from BiH the appearance of Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic, who strongly advocated the award of BiH's candidate status, but also BiH based on the equality, constitutionality of the people, on the principles of federalism and legitimate representation, as confirmed by the European Parliament in his two resolutions. However, I would also like to tell the Croatian public from here that, unlike some other countries in southeastern Europe, Serbia or Montenegro, for example, there is unfortunately no institutional capacity or here more than 25 years after the end of the war, for the implementation of these necessary reforms. However, the institutional capacity will not exist until it is harmonised and balanced in BiH by the position of three constituent peoples who are drastically disrupted after Dayton and the intervention of senior representatives to the entity constitutions. Especially at the expense of the Croatian people, Mr Plenkovic also apostrophyd in his final address at a press conference that I would like to thank in particular. What I want to say here also to the Croatian public, the Croatian public is very often and mostly superficially and misinformed about the political processes in BiH, and in Croatian media very often interprets the views of the official Serbian or Bosniak policies, so they are positively contemplating the views specifically so-called. So M. Dodig's rhetoric is exploited, so to speak Separatist, etc., but representatives of Croatians of legitimate, gathered in the Croatian National Assembly who have the support of over 95% of the Croatian electoral body, very difficult to come to terms here and often present themselves to the Croatian public as bad guys, like people who are anti-Western, anti-state, even pro-Russian, which is a terrible nonsensor. All of us Croats, or most of the Croats from BiH, are already personally and members of the EU and members of NATO, and every day therefore delaying BiH's involvement in these associations, in fact, makes it impossible for us to use all the benefits used by our countrymen in the Republic of Croatia. On this occasion I want to refer here to a few cases, so here they come to the Croatian public of certain bizarreness, such as. the procurement of respirators from China, a company dealing with the processing and collection of agricultural products of the characteristic name Silver raspberries or the assignment of a furniture restoration company, the acquisition of tests for the coronary virus, but nobody here knows how it happened. That's what happened because... The removed Croatian personnel in the civil protection headquarters then actually one national team entered the process which is now investigating the state's prosecutor's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or a few days ago, Šefik Dzaferovic, chairman of the presidency, called in an ad hoc group for European integration and what was done? So for 2 years BiH has been negotiating a co-ordination mechanism for EU membership, it is agreed in... BiH, therefore, is part of the Council of Ministers, entities and cantons, but these interventions, which lack Croatian legitimacy, are actually taking a step back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I want to communicate here with the Croatian public. It is necessary to insist that BiH amends the Election Law, that the Croatian people also be able to choose their legitimate representatives, and then it is a prerequisite for the functioning of the country and if you want stability at the borders of the European and the EU, respectively. It is extremely important for Croatia that BiH has a stable one partner because if the Croats from BiH disappear, I fear it will be a major challenge for the Republic of Croatia and in a security sense in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181361	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181362	12th debate of counterpart Branko Bačić on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As a rule, everything and everything we hear during this morning's confession on behalf of the clubs. I'm sorry that Mr. Orepic and his colleague, Bauk, left. In fact, he says counterpart Orepic is an unacceptable policy that comes down to discrediting a political rival and the dead cold continues for the next five minutes to discredit a political rival, asking himself whether such a person could be at the head of a party. And he forgets to ask himself the question, could a political party in Croatia be a person who has been rightly sentenced to a serious break-in? You see, he didn't ask himself that question, but he asked a dozen other questions he tried to discredit the leader of another political party. So I can ask the question, can the head of the HSS be the person for whom its main political partners and the SDP president says he is lying or the president of the club of representatives here at HS says that Beljak is trying to be smart, but that this is not behind his hand and that it is not working or that the president of the RS removes the bust of President Tudjman, Ante Starcevic, Alojzi Stepinca, but what is also very important for HSS also the president and founder of HSS Stipica Radic. Therefore, the question arises as to where this dignity and integrity of the HSS came when despite such lunches, it is undermining its coalition partner's SDP's laps. What also seems unacceptable to me is my colleague Bauk's position, so I am interested in whether the SDP is concerned with the fact that the profession or politics, the current policy in Croatia, would still say to his colleague Bauku and when it comes to the profession and when it comes to politics, Croatia is successful and this is shown by relevant data and when it comes to the number of patients, and when it comes to the number of dead, the number of infected Croatia is an example to many other countries as well as how to lead, to fight the root of the crisis. If we had listened to the SDP as counterpart Bauk said earlier then the profession would not have really managed this crisis, and then the policy would have collapsed, and that was clearly the objective of the SDP to build itself up. 17. declared almost extraordinary, the situation of a major natural disaster, where we would then make two-thirds of the majority in the Croatian Parliament individual decisions and afterwards there would be no longer any profession and Croatia would end up where many other countries that have managed the crisis are further in the hands of self-politicals and forgetting that the profession and epidemiologists are those who can lead this health struggle for the health of the nation, for the health of their fellow citizens. And in this Croatia is ahead of others. Therefore, in this crisis we have set ourselves perfectly correct, that we have set up the correct data, but this shows a study of the public opinion in Croatia that says how many Croats believe in the profession, trust the Civil Protection Staff in Croatia and how much politics we believe in, if through that policy, we will observe the strongest party in the ruling coalition and that is what bothers you, so I would set a sweat, since you are concerned with all the dates of the elections in Croatia, which, according to you, are the appropriate dates of your colleagues from the opposition, when the elections in Croatia should be held? If it bothers you to maintain yourself for the next two or three months, and we are not sure what will happen in the autumn, does this mean that you have neither the strength nor the courage to take responsibility for this difficult situation for Croatia and then leave us at HDZ which is a kind of compliment to us, Bjanko support that we continue to manage Croatia? ... Yeah, yeah. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] When you're afraid of choices, it means when you're afraid of taking responsibility for Croatia [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181365	And now it is up to Mrs Ljubica Lukacic to present the positions of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181366	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am reporting for this free speech in order to at least briefly explain this to some colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament, as well as to the Croatian public the problem which is already going through our media the second day, and that is that the Croatian Government, or Minister Aladrović, has taken people with a disability of 450 million kuna. I want to say that I am truly sorry that some media is still writing this information, and that it has absolutely nothing to do with the real truth. It is true that the minister rerouted 450 million kunas to the preservation of jobs in this situation. So these are the funds that are in the special account of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which have not been spent. Just because these funds weren't spent doesn't mean that people with disabilities were cut off for anything. In fact, contracts were signed a few days ago in competition with safety workshops and all competitions are regularly conducted and all incentives for employment of disabled persons are regularly paid. So, when we talk about these means, they are just being used to implement professional rehabilitation and its promotion, to encourage employment of people with disabilities, etc. So, like I said, no one's left damaged for anything. Secondly, in March when the Coronavirus problem started, here in this HS we brought amendments and additions to the Professional Rehabilitation Act, which we amended to allow the competent ministry to reroute funds if it had them and only if there were conditions. So if conditions happen like the Republic of Croatia and the whole world unfortunately happen, no one can influence. Therefore, economic activity has been compromised. For people with disabilities, it is extremely important that other people work too, if we do not support and support jobs or maintain jobs then they will not, then the employers will see and will not be at all, they will not be able to pay any fees unless they can hire a person with disabilities. Here's as short as possible, I hope I've made it clear and I'm sorry once again that they're saying that they took funds for disabled persons, which is not true, because this minister and this government are really all employment-related programs, and here we're talking about these means, so as far as hiring people with disabilities are concerned, all programs have been respected, none of the people with disabilities who are employed by any other employer, so when we're not talking about protective employment, they're not left without incentives. These funds also kept thousands of jobs where people with disabilities work. It's the policy of this government, and I believe that, it's only important to say more, that there are about 200 million kunas left that we can still spend on hiring people with disabilities. I believe when the coronary virus passes, it will continue to take one regular payment of those funds. Therefore, persons with disabilities and their employment will not be questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181367	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Raguž will speak now, will be the position of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181369	President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the past 10 days in BiH's public life, unfortunately, something has been happening to the public as well. Together with the Croats in BiH, the Republic of Croatia is exposed to discreditation by representatives of political, cultural and religious life, Bosniaks and Serbs in BiH. How do they do that? The occasion was announced to them by Holy Mass on 16 May in the Sarajevo Cathedral for the murdered, captured members of the Croatian army and Croatian civilians in the Bleiburg field, on the Crossroad throughout Slovenia and Croatia in the second half of 1945. What is required of the Catholic Church is to cancel this Holy Mass. The reason for them to cancel is the grandeur of the Ustasha regime within the Holy Mass. Of course that's not the reason. The reason for their engagement is an attempt to use this occasion to discredit the Croatian people in BiH, in order to continue deconstituting it. We are therefore witnessing, violent changes in BiH's political structure by amending the Constitution, amending the Election Law, contesting the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, changes in the composition of the electoral commission, all in order to achieve this key goal, that after the next general elections in BiH, Croats are no longer a political entity in BiH's public life. What are the arguments they use when trying to realize this goal? The argument by Željko Komsic is suggested that there were persons responsible for war crimes in the part of the killed Croats in the Partizan genocide in 1945 over the Croatian people. The same justification is used by criminals in Srebrenica when they say that among the killed Bosniaks were members of the BiH Army responsible for the crimes against the Serb people before the genocide committed in July 1995 because members of the BiH Army had previously killed 3267 Serbs in the municipalities of Srebrenica and Bratunac. The same argument also uses other political representatives of Bosniaks and Serbs. It is absurd for them to object to the fascism of the Croatian people in BiH, the fascism they practice. In BiH, a monument was erected by Draža Mihajlovic in Bilica. In BiH in Visegrad, the Dobril River, in a monastery dedicated to St. They never also erected a monument to Draži Mihajlovic, who was in Vukovar until a peaceful reintegration. Why are they doing all this? They work for reasons to note that there is insufficient self-respect in the Croatian people, in the Croatian nation and in the Republic of Croatia and in BiH, and there is not enough sanctioning of irresponsible individuals who deny the committed genocide of Yugoslav Partisans over their own people. What is it necessary to do? Once these issues have been identified and if they have done so so far by the Croatian scientific institution, the future Government of the Republic of Croatia should initiate a procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Denial of the Genocide of the Croatian People in 1945 in the Bleiburg field throughout Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Only with such a law can we prevent irresponsible individuals in the public life of the Republic of Croatia who these days, so the former president, the current president, are quoted by political representatives of Serbs and Bosniaks as accusing Croatians of fascism both in the Second World War and the last days in BiH. Croatian victims demand respect. We can't change the past, but we can be more responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u181370	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183888	It is now up to the proposal for a energy development strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. So when he comes...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183889	Okay, I have a request for a break, that's exactly what Mr. President is talking about, so I'm changing the request. Describing And now you'll hear why, here. [[President: You can now.]] As you know respected colleagues and colleagues, more than a year ago HE Dubrovnik in Plat is not working, there is unfortunately a year ago three workers died, an investigation takes place, in a Croatian way that we do not know anything yet, it stands in the DORH etc. [["Come on."]] Now the fundamental question is why the HE Dubrovnik in Plat is not qualified. The problems of electricity supply have already been seen last season and we are a tourist country, especially this part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Now we're getting key information. I see some of you smiled here when I answered and now you gentlemen will hear the key information. Do you know how much HEP has lost in the past 13 months? Because HE Dubrovnik doesn't work? About a billion kuna, gentlemen. About a billion kuna. Now I see a colleague Maras seriously nods, obviously he didn't know about this information but the Croatian public must know that. Why didn't it approach the rapid repair, the reconstruction, there are indications that the works that had been done before, so within that complex, they weren't That's why it's not... [[The incursion president: I thank my colleague Lovrinović.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183890	Approving recess Approving recess [[Invadica Lovrinović: Okay, I'll...]] My colleague Lovrinović, time is up and I don't want to argue with you, you have a break, we continue at 11 o'clock and you can discuss [[Invadica Lovrinović: Just a minute, I didn't explain it for two minutes.]] You can bring it up in the debate, thank you. [[Invadica Lovrinović: Well, there will be an opportunity to talk about it under this point.]] So 11 o'clock follow-up. MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183891	Proposed energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. The energy law. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.01 HOURS]] The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Environmental and Nature Protection, with us also a representative of the proposings, which is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection Mr Ivo Milatić, so he will give an additional explanation for this topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183892	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives, before you is the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. with a view to 2050. which shall be carried out in accordance with Article. 5. Energy law, and a strategy dating back to 2009 should be replaced. and observes the period until 2020. That is why the energy minister has given the order to approach the creation of a new document, and has formed a Committee for Drafting a proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, led by it itself. Energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030 with a view to 2050. It is primarily committed to decarbonising energy, which is also a common EU objective agreed by the Paris Agreement. This common objective is further highlighted by the European Green Plan, which has very clearly articulated the ambition of the new European Commission, which aims towards decarbonisation, decarbonised Europe by 2050. It is therefore clear, on behalf of the new strategy, that it covers the period until 2030, but is considering and looking at the challenges and potentials in the long term until 2050. The basis of the document is closely linked to a package known as Clean Energy for All Europeans, this legislative package defines 5 main pillars of EU energy development, which are reducing energy consumption, reducing CO2 emissions from the energy sector, energy security, integration into the single EU market, and promoting research and development. The new Croatian strategy is in line with the EU's 2030 targets, defines optimal energy mix, and outlines the vision of the development of the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the main starting points of the new strategy were to satisfy 3 essential elements. The first is a growing flexibility and sustainable energy production, the second is a better connection between energy infrastructure and the third is more energy efficiency. We are seeking to encourage new projects with a focus on renewable-source projects and better use of existing capacities for production, transport and storage of energy. This can only be achieved by investing in new capacities and infrastructure, which will be based primarily on low-carbon technologies2. The increase in domestic energy production requires the development of new infrastructure and alternative supply routes that will enable better integration of infrastructure both within the country and with our neighbours. We also plan to replace the expected increase in energy demand to a greater extent the energy efficiency in consumption. As in the EU, we aim to break the link between the development of society by increasing the use of energy resources. The development of the strategy has therefore been approached with the aim of establishing a path towards achieving a vision of low-carbon energy and ensuring a responsible transition to a new period of common energy and climate policy, ensuring affordable and stable energy supply, and protecting the climate by supporting the growth of Croatian companies and their involvement in the international energy market. Although it will be an important goal of decarbonisation, which brings with it the transformation of the energy system, they must continue to meet their basic purpose, which is a secure supply of energy to all customers at acceptable prices and with minimal environmental impact. It should be stressed that the strategy sees energy transition as an opportunity for the development of domestic industry through increased investment in innovation in the field of the protection of air quality, environment and general health of people while increasing the competitiveness of the economy in the area of decarbonisation and the development of renewable energy sources. We believe that, from the point of view of environmental protection, the energy development strategy is very advanced because it follows the EU's objectives with an ambitious path towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It gives a clear view of the future that is in line with the Green Agreement for Europe, which was presented last December by the new European Commission. Prior to the creation of the strategy document itself, extensive analyses resulting in the production of the Green and White Paper have been made available. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The first draft of the Green Paper was presented, which very detailedly processed all the elements needed to strategically outline the development of the energy sector. The same highlighted needs, potentials and problems and opportunities of Croatian energy, and after extensive and thorough public debates, this document ended, and the same White Paper came out, it was first presented to the general public in March last year, the White Paper summarised a number of analytical data, and after the public debate and the completion of the paper became the basis for the development of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. With a 2050 view. An important part of the strategy makes a chapter dedicated to the measures resulting from the strategic environmental impact assessment process. A strategic environmental impact study, as well as the strategy itself, was conducted during a public debate between 20 May and 20 June 2019. on the e-consultation portal and on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. The public debate received written indications of 24 state bodies, institutions and associations, 2 natural persons, while 174 comments were received on the e-consultation portal. All comments, proposals and comments have been taken into account and have been processed after the end of the public debate and have responded to the proposals, observations and comments with reasons for their acceptance or non-acceptation, after which the mandaters have made changes and complemented the strategic study, and the draft strategy itself has been adapted to the comments received. It is evident from the above that the process of drawing up a new strategy has been led in detail and transparently. The Green Paper, the White Paper, as well as the strategy presented three basic scenarios of future energy development. The first of these is the zero scenario of development with the application of existing measures, which represents the continuity of the current energy policy and the application of existing measures. The second scenario is one or more scenarios of the accelerated energy transition, starting from the assumption that at international level, and especially at EU Member States, there is strong co-operation in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This claim is reflected in the global availability of the necessary technologies, the reduction of specific renewable energy costs and the management of market mechanisms in creating favourable conditions for the wide use of renewable energy sources and the application of energy efficiency. At all levels of transmission production, distribution, energy consumption is expected to accelerate energy efficiency through advanced technology measures and synergy horizontal contributions across all sectors of human action. When using different forms of energy, the capacity of the eco-system, the development of the circular economy, increased competitiveness and the development of economic branches that directly contribute to the realisation of the objectives of low.../incomprehensible/development. The scenario of two and a scenario of moderate energy transition, which by all main characteristics is similar to the scenario of accelerated energy transition but with lower energy recovery targets of buildings, lower electricity consumption rates, slightly smaller, smaller portfolio of newly built wind power plants, solar power plants and gas power plants, slower applications in the transport sector and slower transition in the economy. The resulting scenario S two is less demanding investment, requires less operational costs to balance the system with respect to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, it should be stressed as in the short-term planning period until 2030 the scenario S one and S two very similar to the key indicators. The difference occurs during the long-term planning period i.e. by 2050 where the scenario S one contributes to a greater reduction in emissions, a greater energy recovery of buildings, a greater share of electric hybrid vehicles in road transport, and a greater share of renewable energy sources in the production and consumption of energy. The strategy also brings financial, economic and economic indicators. They show that the development of the energy sector is ultimately profitable and decarbonisation opens new opportunities in the economy. Total investments were estimated between 378 and 461 billion kuna i.e. 12.5 to 15 billion kuna a year. Of these, more intense investments range from 14 billion to 17 billion in the period from 2031 to 2050, about 12 to 15 billion kuna. Analysis also shows that the implementation of all measures would lead to the rise of all major macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia. With an estimated annual investment of 16.8 billion kuna between 2021 and 2030, it is expected to increase gross domestic product between 2.5% and 3% annually. In the period considered, with regard to the level of GDP from 2018, i.e. about 11 billion kuna per year. The increase in gross added value is also expected between 2.5% and 3% annually in the period considered, given the level of 2018 and around 9.4 billion kuna per year respectively. The strategy also envisions an increase in the number of employees between 50 and 100,000 by 2030, bringing with it an increase in tax revenues of around 1.6 billion kuna per year. Therefore, the strategy foresees a process of energy transition that will be capital intensive and with the expected higher private capital involvement in the financing of projects, especially those related to renewable energy sources, and is thought of as means, that is to say, the assets of interested companies, the funds of financial institutions and the funds of funds, including pension funds. In addition to private investment, EU funding from the Cohesion Policy Programme and other programmes such as the innovation, modernisation or fair transition fund opened to us and planned for the next financial perspective in the EU budget will be committed. The last two funds are closely linked to the funds collected from the auction of emission units and CO2 emission charges. Therefore, an ambitious investment plan should be achieved through the use of both private and public funds, but public funding will put emphasis on available projects that have a decarbonisation effect and will promote renewable energy sources. The Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, with a view to 2050, is ambitious on the development of clean energy. What can be expected, and what is in line with the European Green Agreement, is an increase in targets by 2030. In this context, with regard to renewable energy sources, Croatia has clearly shown strong support and ambition. It is important to stress that the strategy, although developed prior to the presentation of the European Green Plan, is made possible by considering decarbonisation of the energy sector fully in line with this. For all of this, I ask this esteemed House to adopt the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050 and to take the first step to ensure the decarbonisation of Croatian energy with clear and positive macroeconomic effects for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183893	Thank you, too. We have 12 replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Bulj, after him, a colleague of Dobrović. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183894	Thank you very much. In this proposal, the strategy compares it with the statements by Andrej Plenkovic, Plenkovic in the pastures, and you in the cups. Andrej Plenkovic mentions green energy as a prime minister, environmental protection, air conservation, all that is harmful with fossil fuels, and you are just forsaking fossil fuels, mainly gas, of course 9 research fields that are in the new Split-Dalmatia counties plan, will drill the Adriatic in Split-Dalmatia County, so this is quite the opposite. I'm also asking you how it's possible that in Croatia from the sun, we're just producing energy 0.34% while in Europe 5%, more Finland produces solar energy from us, and at the same time, renewable sources are favourable to foreigners about wind power plants, we pay a million and a half kuna subsidies in their pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183895	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183896	Dear Representative Bulj. I appreciate the question. This is the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, so the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia includes complete energy of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that it also speaks of fossil fuels that are our reality now and will be all the way to 2050, in line with what is the topic of this strategy, we go to decarbonisation, which means more raising renewable sources, and reducing fossil fuels. And when you mention gas, it is public to you that gas is ideally a transit fuel that less emits CO2 and it is clear that in the whole context of the use of fossil fuels we have been forced to do so because it can't just change all that, the gas has an important share and it will clearly remain that for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183897	Thank you. In accordance with Article 248, the representatives of the club MOST and the sovereigns are looking for a break. Here you go, you go first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183898	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST on this Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. It simply coincides with what Andrej Plenkovic has been repeating all along. The key points of the EU, the European Council, the European Commission, green energy, here are the fossil fuels, the karst wells, the Dinara area, the Dinara Mountain area, in the Adriatic area, it is clear to the spatial plans that is visible and you know it. However, if you are talking about pasta, Plenkovic in the cups is visible that fossil fuels are gas here. However, the fact is that we now do not use the sun in renewable sources. The MOST Club has long been given by the Microsolars Act, our billion-and-a-half kunas, our citizens out of their pockets pay the foreigners for wind power plants that do nothing like mushrooms after the rain. So look what's going on, I'm going down the Knin, down the Adriatic, where's the money for what's going on? Every second the money drops to strangers, not ours, not our companies, not HEP, it's good for foreigners. This was done by Vrdoljak with this rule during the government of Zoran Milanovic at the last session. That rule is to rob Croatian citizens, it's to rob them. While we have the sun 5% EU, Finland produces more electricity than solar energy, and we have 0.34%, and the average Europe is 5%. So it suits the gas business here in this case fossil fuels, not green energy and benefits foreign companies such as the milking of our citizens' money by subsidising renewables on wind power plants that are in the hands of foreign owners. It is the favor and destruction of strategic national energy with the destruction of the INA that we gave to foreigners this is the continuation of the handover of energy to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183899	Thank you. Here you go, pal Zekanovic. You asked for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183900	I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for additional consultations. I have not heard from the respected secretary of state that something has been said about the constant reduction of production and oil and natural gas in Croatia. I don't know if it's listed in a printed report, but I haven't heard a word from a pay phone here. And that's one big, big problem, and I'm going to say the biggest problem about energy in Croatia. In 1990, Croatia had 2,500 million tonnes of oil produced from its sources, which was then 50% of Croatia's needs, today it would be about 30%. In other words, we're somewhere at 500 million tons or half a billion today, and we've been five times stronger and nothing. So it doesn't invest in exploitation, it doesn't invest in researching new oil fields, it's easier to buy oil from the outside. The other thing is, it's about natural gas. Earth gas, so today we have a slightly higher consumption in 1990, with 75% of our sources, 75% of our sources, and today we are at 40% and 60% of our imports, respectively. If this is Croatia's Energy Strategy not to exploit our oil, not to exploit our natural gas, then our strategy is really great. So this way I encourage you, you who are in that vault not to import but to produce your own oil and natural gas because it's every normal state doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183901	Thank you. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. I'm setting a break to 11 and 35 [[ANNIGHT IN 11.25 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.35 HOURS]] Replica number two, colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183903	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are still jumping to Prime Minister Plenkovic's mouth with this strategy because we could hear more than once how the European Green Plan is going, and here in this Presidency programme, it is said that climate neutral Europe 2050 is a mutually accepted plan. That would mean dropping emissions by 95% and that's not in any of your scenarios, so your most ambitious plan is to lower the emissions by 2050 by 74%. Therefore, the issue of coherence for European policies does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183904	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183905	I said in my presentation that, in this period, there will be an increase in the objectives, we need to see that these objectives, which are foreseen in the strategy and increased, will clearly look for some financial and any other support that we will see through the way of funding from EU funds, so that there is no real thesis that we are jumping into the mouth of Mr. Prime Minister, and that this strategy, together with the national climate integrated energy plan, is going in the direction of the European Green Agreement and these objectives that are there, they are certainly accessible and those goals that you are talking about should be even greater, and then when we see that the European Green Plan will happen in a financial sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183906	Thank you. The next replica, counterpart Lovrinovic, followed by counterpart Klisovic, please welcome colleague Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183907	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you see, today we're talking about a strategy, you're presenting a strategy, so the minister sent you as Secretary of State saying that he doesn't understand this strategy as important and another thing, so please answer the question why HE Dubrovnik in Plat doesn't work for 13 months, she's already accumulated losses of about a billion kuna? Tell me if you have determined the extent of the damage you have suffered financially, when you will start producing, why you have refused to help abroad to help you restore the hydropower plant and simply why because hydroenergy is an important part of the energy development strategy, however, it is now possible to say whether it is in the interest of anyone that HE Dubrovnik is standing that importer because we import too much electricity. So answer the question about HE in Platt, what's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183908	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183909	It does not appear that the minister has taken this strategy unrelentingly because it is simply not a topic, however, the minister is involved in this strategy from the first day to the very adoption, and as far as HE Dubrovnik is concerned, the theme of HE Dubrovnik is the topic of HEP, the theme of HEP administration, the subject of superior institutions that are laid down below by law to make all the eyewitnesses and all that is, what is my opinion and us in the ministry, HE Dubrovnik will work on the day when all the prescribed conditions and security are acquired and in every other sense that it can work safely and that God would no longer give any situation as it was now because I think that the price of one life is immeasurable with what you say is lost. What's lost if the power plant doesn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183910	Thank you. Next is counterpart Klisovic, come in, followed by counterpart Križanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183911	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that one of the government's goals is building infrastructure and better networking with its neighbours. Now, one of the energy projects has put a lot of pressure on our bilateral relations in Hungary and this is a question of a reversible pipeline from Croatia to Hungary and back, of course, that gas from Hungary can be made in Croatia. I'm interested in hearing that all the permits have been obtained, that Plinacro already has the funds set out in the budget for the project. What's the phase of the project? Is he already finished, realized, or what are some time limits at a time that will be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183912	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183913	Thanks for asking. You've obviously missed the past two weeks of news, it's been a solemn opening, it's all open, it's all open, it's all in function, it's a huge investment done, it's a top-notch facility so we can be glad to find out that the part between Croatia and Hungary that's been agreed while you're in the ministry is absolutely now in office and in application.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183914	Thank you. Next is counterpart Josip Križanić. My colleague is gone. After him, a colleague named Stjepan Curaj and her colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183915	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, we can hear a lot here, both in replicas and in requests for a break of some conflicting information where the gas that is otherwise low carbon, fossil fuel, actually the one with the least carbon dioxide emissions, shows up as something harmful, where some renewable energy sources are good and others, like others, are not, to some, not, so on. I'm interested when we look at the security of energy supply exactly what's going on with the gas cogeneration thermoelectric power plant in Osijek, which stands out, its life span stands out, and there we've had different projections from 250 megawatts to 500, so 400, so go, then stop, and it means to us in Osijek a secure supply of primarily heat and industrial steam, so for the development of the economy and the surrounding industrial zone, I'm curious where it is, and for the sake of this security of energy supply. The city of Osijek. [[/Intruder: Thank you, here's your answer.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183916	Thank you, as far as this project is concerned, I do not have the data now because it is clearly done by people from HEP, but what I can certainly say is that in the same way as the ELTO in Zagreb, this is updated and modernized that it is important for this project to create such projects that the high degree of cogeneration will be a condition for both Bayard and all others, so as far as I have information, this project is not giving up, it is just a question of new technologies and the application of super modern efficient plants because this whole, the whole point, and in terms of this strategy clearly makes sense that this project also makes sense for the energy balance given the greater number of renewable energy sources that will appear in the future, so this project is not only a matter of its realisation and to be in the best interests. better... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183917	Next replica of Anka Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please welcome counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183918	Thank you well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state, so the renewable energy source is wind, with wind power plants there is a certain experience that we have in terms of planning, in terms of locations, wind power plants are already working for a certain period, through environmental impact assessments there has always been an impact of wind power on the plant and animal world, primarily related to birds, flight corridors and everything else, moritorins are made, I wonder if there are any data in the ministry that are experienced, which is because you are one of the elements in this strategy talking about integrated or integrated spatial planning that needs to be based on certain elements, on certain analyses, that means when the wind plants were first gone we didn't have experience and they were planned for a terrible amount of space in Croatia and now we have some experience and I'm interested in whether the ministry has the information that we know that we don't We repeat the mistake of the past. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183919	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183920	Thank you for asking, clearly, that the Ministry is monitoring all these projects that have so far received its own, its approvals, as far as I know the nature administration and the management, the environmental protection department is dealing with this, and it is clear that how much knowledge I have in future projects is being taken into account that these distance pillars are even higher, so that the results and these monitoring results are even better, so in that part, I think it's all right and it's a good thing that new technologies allow it to have more megawatts on the same column, so it's going to start somewhere from one whole and something, and today it's already climbing to 7.5 megawatts, so the exposure of the environment will be less since one, one column or a single aggregate of power generation will be able to produce more electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183921	Thank you, next replica of counterpart Davor Vlaovic, followed by counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183922	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable secretary of state and we from the HSS disagree with this, this proposal for a strategy because it does not follow the European Green Plan where it aims to make Europe a climate neutral continent by 2050. We, with these goals that you have here, are not going to achieve it, here's just for example, the production of electricity from solar and solar energy we are currently at 54 installed, megawatts installed power, but in order to achieve a European average of 5% should have 800 megawatts, when we will achieve that and if we will ever achieve that, and we have better potential than Finland, Germany and some other European countries, and in the function of developing the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia should be agriculture, so I ask you what you have done to reduce the administrative barriers to the production of biomass energy in the function of food production and life conservation in Slavonia and other underdeveloped areas, and here we have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183923	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183924	Dear Representative Vlaovic, I would not agree that this strategy does not follow this Green Plan for reasons we have made a strategy in accordance with the available commercial and technological information, we cannot make a strategy in the way we would like, but as we have written the strategy, we expect that, in progress, this and technology will obviously advance and all those measures that will appear on the basis of the European Green Plan in the meantime, just strengthen these results, or our predictions that we have made here. And as far as agriculture is concerned, we've already communicated this with you several times, this premium model, and the next competitions concerning restored sources that are linked to agriculture, and you'll see about the development of agriculture because we're also aware of Nitrite Directives and rentability. And everything else that matters. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183925	The next replica of counterpart Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183926	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, so on several occasions you've said today about this strategy that it is essentially a set of expectations and that's okay, but I think maybe it should have been a little more precise and more concrete, with concrete measures set and, and, and, and targets and some kind of deadlines when something is going to be done. You mentioned in the introduction of the infrastructure and that more investment in infrastructure is needed, and that is true, I agree with you, and I support it, but through this strategy I don't see any more vigorously or more vigorously addressing these administrative obstacles which could then lead to an increase in investment in infrastructure and investment for, in, in, in, in renewable energy sources, here this is, that's what I lack in this, in this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183927	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183928	Thank you. The strategy is a clear strategy and the law provides that it also has an implementing, implementing part. We have already brought an integrated national energy climate plan for the Republic of Croatia. It's actually the implementing part of this strategy. Among other things, we were obliged to, in accordance with our obligations to the EU, and would not agree that we did not administratively relieve this part of energy. You know that we've passed the law, the regulation that we've regulated, that in all these sublaws, we're maximizing all these unnecessary procedures that we once did. We communicate clearly with the interested public, especially the Chamber of Commerce and the HUP, where we simply remove these obstacles in this day-to-day communication. So you wouldn't agree that, if I still had to agree to that, but if we hadn't, we'd put a lot of it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183929	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, no colleagues. After him, colleague Gordan Maras. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, my question is very simple and current. I wonder how much this, this document of yours, is based on the European Green Plan? So we are aware that the EU is turning to renewable energy sources and how much investment it will invest in the next period. It mentions EUR 1000 billion. Where is Croatia and how do we deal with it? So we see that in Croatia neither good energy nor environmental or waste that can also be a source of energy in some part, but I wonder if you have a plan to change it. So, on this side, Croatia expects a big impasse from the EU and also money, and I wonder how much is the document based on it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183931	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183932	Thank you. That we are ambitious even more than the EU is clear that we are by the '30s. raise the target above the EU target. EU renewables target in total energy consumption 32, Croatia's target is 36.6. So we are absolutely ambitious and clearly expecting delivery from these, from a new financial perspective where it is clearly already stated in the announcement of this perspective that funding of renewable sources, this energy transition of these smart islands and all other situations that are important to us will be financed and clearly we will make use of it and we are doing it in an integrated plan and wrote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183933	And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183934	Dear Vice-President, dear Secretary of State, what is the position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the EU regarding the share of renewable energy in gross direct consumption? Because all we hear are critics, assaults, and panic, we're Parliamentarians. In 2020, the EU's renewable energy plan in gross direct consumption of cca 20%, while Croatia had already participated in the gross direct consumption of 27.3%. The EU's CO2 emissions plan is 21.5 million tonnes in 2020 and 2030. 17.2 and Croatia had 17.1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183935	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183936	Thanks for asking. As you said earlier in this replica, I said, so we are in, on the use of renewable sources in total energy consumption above the EU average, and so it will continue to be. Where we still have enough to work, which is renewable sources in transport and further work on energy efficiency. That's what our big task is, and as far as we're concerned, the results here are good now and we're still going to be. It's our belief, and this data here and these predictions are in favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183937	Thank you very much. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor, colleague Kosor, colleague Boric? If not, then I'm opening a debate. We have 10 registered clubs. The first one is the Voice Club about a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, fellow Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183938	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, Associates, colleagues and colleagues is ahead of us Proposal for a Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030 with a view to 2050. On several occasions, I asked Mr. Plenkovic, even wrote about where our strategies are, where our documents are because Mr. Plenkovic absolutely stands by Mrs. Ursula von der Leyen and talks about climate change adaptation, talks about all of this, then I was curious about what kind of reality it is. And among other things, when he said here's the proposal for the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is about to happen, I have to admit that I thought we'd get some kind of document right now, and I'm just looking forward to having it, and it's good to have Croatia in some other EU member states, and it's good to have it. And then of course, I don't know if I'm going to be naive for the rest of my life and trust those who say something, and I need to always know that I have to believe what I read. I took this strategy, I started to read, first I was angry, she was kind of going on that kind of aggression, then I was sad in the end. You know what this strategy is, we have to have it, we have a clutch and we still don't really know what to do. The European Green Plan says the aim of the climate neutral economy by 2050 is to adapt to climate change becoming a test of the maturity of our civilization. What are the elements of the plan? It says clean energy, energy recovery, green industry, green transport, sustainable mobility, sustainable agriculture, biodiversity, the removal of pollution, an important element of course related to social justice transition, and says 100 billion euros from public and private sources for new jobs. The countries that think, the countries that care about their future will do whatever they have to do, so you have to have a strategy, you have to have an action plan, you have to have the idea to get into this big story at all so you can withdraw the funds and you have to spend the most energy. In doing so, I do not mean this energy but my own 2030 adjustment energy, because these countries will have the opportunity to really make a step towards the economy, related to really reducing and moving our young people, but to be acceptable to something else. It's just not this strategy. This strategy is a document you put in the clutch, we have it. But what are we gonna do until 2030? This strategy says we'll wait and see what happens. If that is the case, every time we see some reports that are primarily related to some development policies, we will now be at the end of the list of 27 countries that are EU members at the end. She was supposed to be much more ambitious, she had to offer stronger scenarios, but she unfortunately didn't do it. Other countries have gone much further in adapting to climate change, this has gone to personal level, at the level of local self-government units. I will take this opportunity and only a picture that talks about everything, how the city of Zagreb, or the mayor of Zagreb, thinks it is about adapting to climate change, of course I speak sarcastically. You've had a chance to see, he means it in a way to put on Cremok cannons that produce snow at a temperature +17 which then actually cools down a little bit all those who lie on the meadow and sunbathe. So it's just a picture of how certain cities experience it. I'll take the turn. I'm going to start a little bit, the first scenario, three scenarios were considered, the zero scenario, that's the one that says continuity, so what happens will happen. The scenario 1 that says the accelerated energy transition and that the strategy further talked about this accelerated energy transition that we're going to do, how we're going to determine, which I would say. But even the scenario of the moderate energy transition wasn't fully worked out. Not to forget, I think it's important to mention the remarks that were here. In this document that we have more than half of the document are observations, and the comments are quite interesting, it is quite interesting that number that was obtained in the e- Consultation and I have now gone a little to see what was accepted, what was not accepted, what was accepted. We haven't received a table of comments accepted anywhere, but some are aware, and what's accepted, you've always been accepted comments where someone says you miswritten the word here and there, so that's an observation that's being accepted or said you misstated that and that notion, that's an observation that's being accepted. And the main thing is a lot of objections, and I'm going to do a little about the waste, and then I'm going back to the strategic goals that are related to the waste. Likewise, the green plan says the removal of pollution, but some countries have gone much further in the problem of waste resolution. Here, among other things, is the energy use of waste, or to be precise to the end, the use of waste to produce energy. But it's just not worked out, it's not defined. It's not defined how, it's not defined which waste. What we're witnessing, and we can't really talk about not looking back at the situation that we have, the capital is an excellent example, the capital of the Republic of Croatia can be called Cantograd because it's really buried with bins from which the waste goes everywhere. What I've had a chance to hear, but I'm really saying right now that I've heard, I have to check and I'm going to request in writing that the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund has ordered, it's plastic cans so there's no confusion in which we store the waste, so it's going into the collection of new millions and 200 thousand buckets. I've double-checked it, they say it's true, but I'll ask for it in writing. So with these existing waste cans that we have in the Republic of Croatia in certain cities, if there are 4 million of us on 3.3 population will be one plastic waste can that is actually scary for the simple reason that we haven't solved and when we all sort together and when we do everything together that's done with that waste and I'm absolutely sure that one of the key things that we all need together a lot of energy, a lot of effort and a lot of effort to see what we're going to do with this waste further because the city of Zagreb has started to stink, which has never smelled what's going to happen to some other cities or with someone else is far from it, but I'm going to go back to strategic goals. It says the main strategic goals of energy development of the Republic of Croatia are growing, flexible and sustainable energy production by reducing dependence on energy imports by stopping the decline of domestic production. What does that sentence mean? So, by stopping the decline of domestic production and growing and sustainable production, I'm absolutely afraid it won't work. Afterwards, the optimal use of existing production and investment capacities in new production. It says ensuring adequate energy mix with lower emissions with lower greenhouse gas emissions. All right, all right, all five, but how? What? Where are the numbers? What are the indicators? I'm afraid not. Then the development of energy infrastructure and new energy supply routes and greater energy efficiency. So it says the development of energy infrastructure, so these are projects that are invisible but that are extremely important and important. One of the important things is energy efficiency that can be seen relatively quickly and can be achieved in public lighting. So you can achieve relatively fast energy efficiency in public lighting, and you can also reduce the degree of pollution, light pollution. And now let's take an example to see what it looks like in reality. Let's set an example, for me are the closest examples of the city of Zagreb, and then I always like the example. Now comes a project of energy efficiency of public lighting in the city of Zagreb and with one, about the same joy, let's go see what it is because I think it's good, that it will be done well. And now we get to the next one. So we choose a concessionaire who will offer new lamps that will be energy-efficient in a way that they can, of course, be managed from one place, so all according to the green plan and that will be one concessionary. We put these lamps on the poles. Now these pillars are owned by HEP. Not the city of Zagreb. Now something needs to get to that pole, so don't... You must have something, now there is another concessionary in the city of Zagreb who connects those wires from the pillar to the pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am livingly interested in how, and this is the administration and that is how it will work, that is one example, one will be for the lamps, for the pillars will be HEP that will have to give consent and the city of Zagreb and I don't know who and the next concessionary is the one who runs the wires down there. That's your reality. So, when you watch a little bit of what some other countries have been doing, how other countries are preparing themselves, how other countries want to achieve certain goals, of course they're always somehow, we're going to go along with what Germany's been doing since long ago, and then we're a little bit tied to the budget that was last year, when it was the German budget, then it's Mrs. Merkel talked about adapting to climate change, about energy efficiency in construction. What in a small country like Croatia would have been to expect is that when you go to this country, that all public buildings and public purposes are under the scales, in the energy efficiency project, that certain private buildings are also in the project, so the energy efficiency project speaks of several things. It's about the fact that behind that project you get a house that looks better, it's important to me as an architect, with forgiveness, I always look at it, you get a house that spends less energy, you get a house that you in your wallet spend less energy. Imagine what that means. I'm just saying, this is energy in terms of façade but not in terms of heatlifters, which is even more. So, all our hospitals where people are 24 hours, all the homes of the pensioners, whether public or private, where people are 24 hours, kindergartens, schools, colleges and at our place right now and this should be the main project, should really be in terms of energy efficiency restored, not only in terms of external but also in terms of energy that is. Behind that multi-state building, apartment buildings, we do it halfway, we don't do it right. It was now, so related to family homes, so we're talking about reality, one piece of paper, even this paper isn't in the sense of ambition, it's so real, I have to admit that I'm sad, I wish there was something more, there's some step, there's some kind of step, that even if we've overestimated ourselves and told my people, by 2030 we'll do that and we'll do that, action plans, we'll pull a lot of funding, we'll get into projects, we'll do it. It's unfortunately not this document and then you come to reality and you see that in all these things we're a limp cat. I'm sorry about that. I don't have a problem here, I don't even have a problem with what that strategy would bring to Mr. Plenkovic's government, I have a problem that this strategy won't be a document that will allow for further development of the Republic of Croatia and that's my problem, and that's where I'm going to stop on behalf of the club, I have a single one, then I'm going with some examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183939	Thank you, too. The next individual debate is a debate between my colleague Mira Totgergelija in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183940	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs. So today we are discussing a document that is extremely important to me for the Republic of Croatia and which, when we bring it in, if we follow it in many ways, will depend on the style and way of life of our citizens in 2030 and 2050, and that is why I think it is very important that we try to reach a high degree of consensus on this document. From these debates so far, which through the replica, even in the name of the club we heard, obviously for a little maybe political reasons it will be difficult. So when we look at this strategy that is ahead of us, the energy strategy, then I would divide it into some basic 2 directions of action, as it was done, of course divided into 10 and 30 years, respectively. The first direction of action could simply be to reduce total energy consumption, and the second direction would be to define changes in energy patterns in the structure of total energy consumption. All of this is worked out in 3 scenarios or indeed 2 because this one is practically a continuation of continuity, so scenario one and scenario two, and the scenario zero is continuity in the first 10.g. There's a difference between scenario one and scenario two, but it's not significant. We have already heard through replicas of what is the situation of greenhouse gases or what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia, so the strategy is, in some ways, driven by the first need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector, so at this point, the Republic of Croatia is even ahead of what is the EU average. If we look at the strategy, so we could even say just a few of the images that are given, they can actually recognize what I was saying about the direction of action, but the first image that speaks of the total energy consumption according to the scenario S2 or the one that speaks to the scenario S1 shows us the trend that we need from year to year to decrease the total energy consumption, but then there's the development of energy in that primary energy, so basically after 2030, we're completely throwing out coal coke, we're stuck on liquid fuels and natural gas, but if we look at the data in detail then we see that in the total energy consumption of these two energy sources from year to year, and we're drastically growing renewable sources. Here in that picture when we look at electricity, so it's just shown here in that part of the imports of electricity because that part of the electricity that we're producing here, we're already producing it from one of these forms that I mentioned. So we can explain in detail both directions in this first picture, so we also have a change in the forms of energy that we use in total energy consumption, and also a total reduction in energy consumption. This reduction in energy consumption through the strategy as it is explained in detail even though in the previous debate we could hear that nothing is clear enough, I cannot agree with it, however, because the strategy is not a detailed action plan for each segment of what we want to post but analyze the situation, gives us the data and defines the goals that we need to fast through certain years that are ahead of us, and then, based on that strategy, we need to work on action plans for each of the objectives to achieve them. So, this smaller energy consumption goes first of all and it's related to the energy restoration of space either for housing, any business buildings, but we could do that consciousness under one common denominator of space heating. There is the greatest possible effect, and just as later on through the wealth of our budget in the coming time, GDP, our citizens, entrepreneurs, will invest in energy recovery, let's call it a building, so much more significantly we will use or spend energy on heating. Other forms are, of course, related to traffic, the quality of electric power-generating machines themselves, but also those that we have in the industry to make their efficiency as efficient as possible, but it's all something that can contribute less to us than what is very simple, but financially very demanding. Now I'm going to look around, and we can say that in fact, the strategy is so set up that we have, some would say, a huge cost of restoring energy reconstruction of buildings, but of course, it's also an opportunity for us, because through the rebuilding of buildings, we start our own economy and we employ people, and we have a huge energy savings when we do it. And now this second direction of action, which is a change in the form of energy, so in the overall structure as I have already said consumption, we go to this basic division, which is that we are reducing and we could even say drastically reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and above all increase renewable energy sources and then in these renewable energy sources, both water and wind and the sun and biomass and biogas and all that we can count into renewable sources. The important part of the strategy itself is still related to traffic where any serious changes in transport are mainly linked to electricity again in some way, and then by reducing the consumption of fossil fuels, we are actually coming to the next step, which is to significantly force the production of electricity because if we look at traffic, then we switch more or less to electric cars, so now whether it's hydrogen or it's going to be a battery, it's completely different but it's electric vehicles and it's electricity again. The hydrogen in that case becomes just some gas tank, a power tank. So when we change the shape we force the production of electricity, and now we can hear here through the replicas that very much force gas, but when we look at the production of electricity in gigawatt for hours, then we see that just production from the thermal power plants that are mainly over time becomes gas, it's drastically falling into the production of electricity and it's increasing wind power plants and solar power plants, so when we look at how much power we produce. It also increases production from hydropower plants but then when we look at installed power, we see that there is also a need to secure larger amounts of power from the thermal power plants. So those who get a little bit of how the energy system works and what it means to produce from the wind, which means to produce from the sun, then know that for every kilowatt hour produced from the wind or from the sun, we have to have some stable source that's in our reserve. Of course it's more financially demanding because you have more capacities that you don't actually use continuously than you have a reserve but on the other hand, that's the condition that we move on to renewable sources because we don't have renewable sources that can make ourselves a reserve. And of course, Croatia's energy potential is just as far as renewables are concerned in water, in wind and in the sun. As for water, all those water streams that could have given us larger amounts of electricity, or where we could have installed large power, we practically took advantage of the good work, and the rest of us are able to operate in the wind and the sun, and that's why this strategy was created, but it was built in a way that it would be sustainable, because if we just force renewable sources and go towards producing electricity from renewable sources almost 90 percent and some percent, and we don't provide capacity for the reserve, then we get a system breakdown at some point. As interesting information, we are now using a lot of biomass energy, but most of that biomass energy is actually for the part I was talking about, which is about heating above all. And in that part of biomass will remain large and for the area of heating but of course also for the production of electricity as much as possible and as foreseen by the strategy. Finally, I would say that the strategy is well-designed, covering the basic objective, which is to reduce greenhouse gases or CO2 equivalent for a period of 10 years, and then with a view for another 20 years, it is designed to ensure the stability of the electricity system, increase the production of energy from renewable sources, and thus ensure that our economy, through the next 10 years and then 30 years, in all this transition, sees first of all the opportunity, not the cost, that our citizens and citizens see the opportunity and not the cost, and that the overall effect of this strategy is ultimately positive for both the citizens and the economy and entrepreneurs. Of course, exactly the implementation of the strategy depends on how much consensus we will have on its text, it would be good if those who criticise it specifically say what they think should be different, if there is too much gas, what instead of that gas should be inside, if it is not sufficiently elaborated action plan, and it is not imagined that we are putting action plans into the strategy in detail, but we are doing them later, but if there is no consensus about the strategy itself, then there will be even less to come up with action plans, and then it will come out that, and it needs to be implemented over 10 and more years, it will be difficult to ensure that at all levels of government, from local, regional to national, indeed, everyone is actually respecting these strategies That's why I'm asking you that those who have suggestions to specifically say them, and that we can achieve as much consensus as possible about this... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183941	Comrade Totgergeli, thank you, thank you. Following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is counterpart Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183942	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I welcome once again the Secretary of State and my associate and, of course, all my colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the Energy Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. I'm going to take out a few preliminary figures so we can follow this important topic more easily. In Croatia the share of consumption and coal and crude oil decreases while natural gas, renewable energy and electricity imports are growing. It is similar in EU Member States where we have a decline in the share of fossil fuels. The Republic of Croatia is calming down on average 50% of its primary energy needs while the rest of the imports and these imports of energy grow year by year. We import 100% of coal, over 80% of oil and oil derivatives, close to 60% of gas and about 33% of electricity, which, of course, depends on the hydrological conditions of that year. Thus, the Republic of Croatia has become highly import-oriented in terms of energy and this stands at cca 10 billion kuna depending on the prices of the market. Let's look at some of the external factors that are important to mention here. We had a new EU energy regulation package titled "Clear Energy for All Europeans", we had a dependence on energy imports and an appropriate energy mix, we have cross-border interconnections and alternative energy supply routes, of course we need more integration into the single European market. We also have targets until 2030. 32% of gross direct consumption from renewable energy sources, 32.3% of energy efficiency improvements and 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. But we also have a 2050 goal of ensuring conditions for the climatic neutron continent, which we know already corresponds to approximately a 95% reduction in emissions. What energy strategy should Croatia bring today? The proposal for the Energy Development Strategy by 2030 can be said to be immediately very conservative and is not in line with the EU's objectives and does not go in the direction of reducing energy consumption through increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy. This proposal of the Energy Development Strategy only took a small part into account the potential and resources of renewable energy sources in Croatia. The emphasis has not been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the period until 2050, in accordance with the Paris Agreement and the EU objectives, i.e. the objectives of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. This is also inconsistencies with the European Green Plan, which Europe wants to settle or become a climatic neuteral continent by 2050. We have one absurd in this strategy, despite the remarks we had on both the Green and White Book, the waste energy. Completely wrong waste energy is listed as a renewable energy source, it is not. So the amount that is now listed is 13.54 to 17.27 petajoules per year. Of course you're thinking of waste fuel. Which corresponds to a large amount could be over a million tonnes of yearly fuel from waste obviously still relying on the 2005 strategy as some kind of relevant document. It's definitely part of this waste, it's plastic waste that's fossil origin and it's not properly methodological to quote it as a renewable energy source. So it's not right. However, here I am going to make a concrete proposal immediately and that is one of the measures that connects horizontally different policies, because my previous speakers here called for us to be concrete, and how to convert waste into valuable energy. There's a solution, so it's worth energy and it's a renewable type, and that's recycling. Instead of those million tonnes of CGO fuel, this waste paper, cardboard and textiles can be recycled, a new product can be created and energy savings can be achieved. So it's raising energy efficiency in the industry. The potential is almost 35 petajoules, which is several times more than the energy recovery you insist on pushing as renewable energy sources. It's practically free of harmful emissions because that energy is reduced somewhere, so it's extremely valuable. It's also part of the Green Plan he's talking about, and so is your minister and prime minister. So that would be it, and here it's completely misunderstood and interpreted. The proposal for a strategy did not necessarily take into account the necessary increase in energy efficiency as a measure that can mostly reduce the consumption of heat cooling electricity in general consumption, such as households, service sector, agriculture and construction. The strategy does not clearly promote distributed electricity production at the site of consumption, and in the context of implementing energy efficiency measures in construction, so photovoltaic systems, thermal solar collectors, etc., which would be necessary, for example, not to mention the construction of approximately zero consumption, buildings of approximately zero energy consumption. The strategy should clearly include renewable energy sources in a way that promotes the production of electricity from renewable energy sources at the point of energy consumption to the power of the connection where electricity will be produced primarily for its own consumption, and only the excess energy is delivered to the power grid, the accounting period should be one year. The distribution system operator is increasingly expected to provide on the electricity market and create conditions for active inclusion of small producers or consumers, the name prosumers is used in English today, should certainly seek to increase the share of renewable energy sources, but without specific incentives that would burden final customers' accounts. In order to create a stable business environment, and with regard to the implementation of the project, there must be clear and unequivocal regulatory regulations in which the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the strategy for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, and the Natura 2000 ecological network area, along with the compromise of various constraints and the greater social benefits. In the context of energy development and the Republic of Croatia should take advantage of its geostrategic position and develop renewable energy sources and offer this technology through the transfer of knowledge to neighbouring countries, so far the untapped potential of the Republic of Croatia is large. Transport as an important sector has been very poorly processed, many measures have been missed which can be made in the transport sector, at least in principle, public transport electricity obligations, parking obligations for electric chargers, electrical chargers’ equipment, foreign car import restrictions, the promotion of low-emission zones in cities and many other similar ones. The energy of the sun deserves a special analysis, a special review of the Republic of Croatia, although in a far better geographical position than the radiation energy of sunlight, it does not use enough solar energy compared to other EU countries. The share of electricity coverage produced from solar power plants in the EU countries in 2019 was 5%, and in the Republic of Croatia only 0.34%, this means that given today's 56 megawatts of installed power to reach this average, we should immediately jump to 750. For the Republic of Croatia and our pro-energy system are of the importance of a small solar power plant to the power of building connections or covering their own energy consumption, such systems could be installed by 2030 without any influence on the network. 1500 megawatt power, they would annually produce 1875 gigawat hours of clean electricity without greenhouse gases, which is 10% of our consumption, or a good part of imports. The use of solar energy is of local importance and leads to the opening of many jobs and investments in rural areas, areas of special state care, the coast, the coast and islands. Finally, the Republic of Croatia reduces imports of electricity from greenhouse gas emissions, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are becoming richer, and new jobs of local character in production, design, installation, control, release, maintenance, marketing, promotion of solar, thermal and photovoltaic systems are being achieved. It is worth mentioning a good example, the island of Krk, we have already learned to listen to about the island of Krk as an environment that progresses, which is mentioned in a very good light as it is in waste management, but this is also the case in energy. It has been known, at least, that in 2012 the island of Krk decided on a low-carbon strategy and the goal of achieving climate neutrality until 2030, therefore it is more ambitious than Europe, which is also logical because we are in a very favourable geostrategic position, but this strategy does not outline such ambition at all, so this is very good for Krk, but it is unfortunate for the Republic of Croatia that this strategy is not nearly as ambitious as we see it is the case in our advanced regions. All in all and in conclusion, this strategy of energy development cannot be supported, is that it is much better than the one from 2009 without further ado, but it is still given the present moment, backward, unambitious, inconsistent with the times and challenges that are ahead of society and energy today and I have to repeat the question, how is it that the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister, as well as the Minister, are so warmly advocating and mentioning the Green European agreement in which, or at least, I am reading it, see one attachment to the idea of putting Europe at the head of today's world and ensuring the first climatic continent on the Globe and thus being the leader of an avalanche of change because this avalanche is necessary. So, the energy sector of Europe as such today is a small greenhouse gas distributor, which is, I think, less than 10%, and it is still falling, the only continent that has managed to reduce emissions in almost all sectors compared to the last period except in transport as opposed to the other part of the world. However, this is no reason for us to say no, no, so it is better to be conservative because economic opportunities not only in developed countries but also in Croatia, because we need to know that the equipment for photovoltaic systems is almost entirely produced in Croatia, so this is an economic chance for us to create a system that will become sustainable and that will be able to provide equally good opportunities for life for generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183943	Thank you, too. We continue the debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The next debate was shared between Djujic and his colleague Klisovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I would just like to point out that we in the SDP expected this kind of important document, which is really important for the Republic of Croatia, which refers to a long period of 10 to 30 years, to represent and defend in this House of the High Minister of Resorial, not the Secretary of State. We thought the minister would be happy to boast of the effects of this strategy, but obviously we were wrong. And I must conclude that on such an important document, the minister should have spoken here before us. Secondly, we welcome the adoption of a new strategy, especially after this one was now adopted in 2009 and has already given its time-out and let's say that it has expired. We believe that although the formal debate lasted a month that it was still a public debate on this document for a long time because it has been spoken of in public for almost a year somewhere, so that all interested people had the opportunity to take part in creating this strategy, which we welcome and what we think is good. I'm not going to talk about numbers here now, so this detailed part of the strategy, but I want to highlight some things in principle, and that's that this strategy is important for three reasons, let's say, three factors that make this topic important, and that's a security issue, energy independence and environmental protection, and that's the topics that go through this strategy. And I want to point out that this strategy may be in our opinion, which I said this morning in the replica, a little overprincipled and too much is based on expectations, and there are no concrete measures and concrete activities that should lead to accelerated processes with final time tasks when certain things are carried out to implement this. So there are a lot of segments, too many of you state secretaries in your opening presentation have mentioned compliance with the EU, compliance with the EU, monitoring European directives, we think that this is important, but we think that we are bringing this strategy primarily for ourselves and for Croatia and that this is important, and the EU and their directives can only be a benefit. And it is clear that this is just one guideline, let's say, one framework that needs to be accompanied by action plans, laws and other measures that will lead to the realisation of the objectives set in this strategy, and that is where we believe that not enough has been done. So, you still can't see how certain administrative barriers that are the main braker of investment will be skipped, both in infrastructure and in these renewable energy projects, here I'm just going to give some examples, so the big focus is just put on solar cells or solar energy and wind energy. For us, much of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is still under some kind of environmental protection, which then limits certain areas, so I'm going to say millions of projects. Here in my area was one wind energy project that had been in the wind for 6, 7 years and stood for bat habitats, because two raw eagles flew over that part, and that was one billion-euro project costing 6.7 years. Investors potentially invested in the very stage one 3m euros, eventually gave up the story. So, we can't be the ecosystem and environmental protection yes, but we can't be hostages to ourselves because on the other hand, technology goes forward. There were birds flying over there, and then that would change the problem. Today's wind power plant technology has sensors, so they shut down when the birds go, and they're on fire, and after all, these birds always find a way and animals. So these are still the ones to say these administrative barriers which, then, from the once unknown developments, brake and investment, and that's what maybe more should be taken into account. The other thing is also investment in infrastructure, we think that we are God's land for that part, we have a large number of sundial hours, we have strong winds that we can use in renewable energy sources in the full sense, and there we need to do more in that direction because we can also export electricity. There is Italy that opens up some new markets for us, and it can be except for this ecological component and the reduction of carbon gas and all that, it can be an economic stopper, that our citizens have cheaper, cheaper energy and that this and that we also earn through exports, through exports and electricity and all other goods that we can use in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing, let's say too weak with some other laws we encourage, so when we talk about CO2 and reduction, we are far above the EU average, but we still have to work here, so here I will mention cars and that energy, so we, through some laws of our tax policy, need to pen new vehicles of new technologies that have reduced CO2 and encourage the import of some old diesels which then pollute our premises, and we are still small incentives on electric vehicles, so the whole of Europe about this story, but we are not doing anything in this matter, and let's say that these legal barriers, so the ministry is giving incentives to civil people, so we're going to be able to do this kind of work, but let's say the legal person can't use this thing, let's say that these legal people are still in a better situation, and we're going to be able to do this kind of change ourselves, and we're going to make a lot of money,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183945	Thank you, next is counterpart Klisovic, who shares a discussion with counterpart Djujic, please welcome colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183946	Thank you very much Vice-President of the Assembly, once again I welcome the Secretary of State and Associate, what I would like to stress is that it is probably known that energy stability is an assumption of the development of the economy, the functioning of critical national infrastructure and households of Croatian citizens, and thus also states as a whole. The key element of Croatia's energy uncertainty is a high degree of dependence on the import of energy, primarily oil, and that is also spoken by fellow Dobrovic. The energy-dependent Croatian economy is therefore sensitive to any type of supply disturbance or manipulation of energy prices. Also any disturbance of relations within or between the countries from which the Republic of Croatia imports energy or through which they are delivered may adversely affect Croatian energy security. Now we are coming to an external policy, foreign policy and energy policy that must be tied together because energy policy is increasingly an instrument of foreign policy or an attempt to influence certain government decisions, some states. Let's just remember the 2009 crisis. in Ukraine, when due to the failure to sign a new contract between Ukraine and Russia, Ukraine has stopped the flow of gas including one that needs to be in the EU, it has led to an uninvited situation a good part of EU member states. Therefore, disturbances in international relations, disturbances between the countries through which you supply gas can have a direct, direct impact on your energy security and in this context of the Republic of Croatia must be much more active, as well when the energy strategy, energy strategy, when it is designed, must also be imported into it by external policy, and in some ways, that strategy must be coordinated with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and Croatian diplomacy including through economic diplomacy must actively contribute to the country's energy interests. We have been doing this, and I would only like to hear ab given by the secretary of state, as the current situation with the gas supply project from Azerbaijan via the TAP IAP pipeline which has not yet been built in this part of the IAP, but many agreements have fallen, many agreements have been signed, whether we are still standing firm in those positions that IAP as a gas pipeline that would from Greece, through Albania, Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, continue to towards Central Europe, has given this priority or is no longer a priority and whether this project is still treated within the EU or whether it is on the list of projects of common interest of the EU, if it is much easier to provide financing for its country, which would certainly be very helpful. This is a very important alternative source of supply, i.e. the energy supply route, in this case gas and not only for the Republic of Croatia, not only for the Balkans, but also Central Europe. Where that gas will go when it passes through the Republic of Croatia, then probably in Baumgarten, on that ground, that gas market that then buys and sells gas. Therefore, it is one of the strategic projects for me for the Republic of Croatia, I don't know how things are right now, but I would like to know both in the context of the Republic of Croatia and in the context of the EU, as well as in the context of further cooperation with countries that are on the road, whether it is Albania, Montenegro, whether it is Azerbaijan, where we stand exactly. In addition, when we talk about the country's energy security and the impact of other countries on our country's policy, then we need to take account of the key strategic energy companies and infrastructure, of course, there is something that helps us, and European regulations, but when it comes to ownership, we are simply left to ourselves, the government has announced that it will sell the shares of the INA, seek out a strategic partner, nothing has happened yet, it has been a long time, it has even been announced for HEP, but it has retired. But anyway, what interests me within the country's energy security is how are strategic energy companies for this country being considered? Do we retain ownership in the Republic of Croatia or are we open to foreign and investment and, of course, to the greater impact of these countries on the overall Croatian policy? Because as I said, energy is important for both the economy and the critical national infrastructure and for every citizen and household of this country in particular. If she doesn't get rid of it in a way that we have control over energy independence, but that we depend on others, then I'm afraid that with all of our great commitment to the country's sovereignty, we're going to be a pretty, pretty dependent country. The EU provides us with a good format here and full integration into the single European energy market is very important for Croatia, we are members of the Union to do so, but our policies must lead in this direction. It is equally important and good to me that you have also mentioned that networking with neighbouring countries, all neighbouring countries are also important for Croatia whether the routes of supply of energy are coming through these countries or that Croatia may be exporting energy at some point to have then channels through which it will take them out. In addition, I find it extremely important in the 21st century to encourage renewable energy sources. They are the future, and the sooner we deal with it the better, the better it is that it's currently collected rather than fossil energy sources, but it's like any investment. At first it's expensive, at first it doesn't give back what man would want, but ultimately, the long-term return is much bigger than to continue as the old one. So renewable energy sources, therefore, invest in new technologies, invest in research. It's nice to know that Končar has his construction projects I don't know the wind power plant, so including those technologies. It's nice to know, you know, to all of us citizens, and we feel much safer in this country that we'll just be able to find our way into a crisis of times of crisis to secure energy if we have knowledge, if we have technologies, if we have investments in knowledge through institutes, through companies of public and private that deal with energy, to acquire knowledge, to discover new things. We're a very innovative people, and we need to take advantage of that. Therefore, to fit into the EU Green Plan, of course, is also very important because we will in principle continue to develop fully further in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183947	Thank you, fellow Klisovic. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Next on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and Let's change our Croatian counterpart Ivan Lovrinović. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that there are few of us here in the assembly, and I am also sorry that today at this debate, not the Prime Minister or at least the Minister of Energy, there is not one or the other, they have sent only the Secretary of State, which says they do not really give this issue and the question of energy special attention. However, in the party Change Croatia, our energy experts have studied this strategy proposal and I will finally read a whole series of our proposals here. It was done, this strategy was first developed by the Green Paper according to the White Paper, and interestingly, the energy strategy of the Croatian State has so far been developed by always one institute headed by a man who, for example, 25-30 years ago is in a book and in a strategy, find me in that book where there are renewable energy sources, not mentioning them at all. So much for whoever wrote it. But you are aware that I am a serious man and party Let's change Croatia and I speak with arguments, and so today I will speak exclusively because besides being a politician I am and an economic expert. Therefore, we only speak with arguments because here we have seen circuses of arbitrary things, which is why Croatia suffers. So let's take the turn. Because of energy and energy, energy is being fought by wars. All countries are seeking to become energy independent and rather than become more energy independent, Croatia is leading the strategy of increasing energy dependence. So let's remember, let's do a little '90. In the year Croatia produced 80% of its gas, 60, 40, about 50% and up to 60% oil and the highest percentage means electricity. What's the situation today? Today, 80% of oil is imported, 60% of gas, and on average, electricity is imported 40%, with it even being able to reach 60% during the summer months. So you see here another strategy is being realized, so these are unfortunately why we are not going to change Croatia to support this strategy because it simply does not correspond with reality, with real life because we see that there is a real strategy that is actually being realized. And now I'm going to show you what the real strategy really is, it's best seen in the renewable energy market. You see, Croatia has already achieved an average, so what it imposed on the EU in accordance with its directives, so on average 18, Croatia has already achieved that it already has 20% of the total consumption of renewable energy sources, and the EU has reached an average of 18%. So wait a minute, how is Croatia going beyond the EU average? See, here's the secret of Croatia, because they're stakeholders, and some people used to work for them at HEP. They had documentation, they knew where the wind was blowing, and they went into that wind power business, you see. That's why every year my citizens and that's all in 16, so when it comes to potential clientelism, corruption, etc., and when some projects are to be implemented, Croatia is Europe's champion. But look, that's why we pay our citizens bloody expensively, every year we pay that kilowatt or wind power because it's finished that contract, we remember that it was before the end of the mandate, and it costs us between a billion, a billion and a half kuna more, and that's why I think 2015 the current has picked up 30% once, and Radimir Cacic knows a lot about it, and he even warned about it, imagine. Now the question is, if there are geniuses in the Ministry of Energy and HEP, why didn't they get into that wind power business? Well, he can't, he needed someone to put their pockets together, my dear citizens, and you know we should pay for it. And now you see, when mostly wind power plants ended up talking, now on the big bell HEP announces the urbi et orbi that it's building a wind power plant Corlat near Obrovec but why HeP didn't take that documentation, run the concession, no, but he bought the whole paperwork from a small company... I guess somewhere in the Zagreb area but it's not written about it, it doesn't have to be bad there, I don't prejudge anything but it confirms that a key energy company called HEP, she's careful, who's had capital to invest for years, she's not even a simple nut. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's really true that my citizens, until we reset this, we're chasing it, so there's nothing we can do, you see, wherever we lift that energy carpet, the judiciary, this, that, clientelism, corruption, it all rules out. Now let's move on in this whole story. So wind power plants, it's built and now HEP will pay 500 million kuna signed contract, they've already ordered these wind turbines, of course from export, there hasn't even tried to restructure production, for example. Connacht, shipyards to learn to do things like that, there's no talking, but it's important to import because it's always been the essence of all the governments in this country. Now watch this, so HEP invests 500 million kuna in it. About a year ago, a new law was passed where HEP was reduced by nets in which it was revenueing about 300 million kuna annually, meaning 300 million kuna less. Furthermore, here I asked a question about an hour ago here by a state secretary from the Ministry of Energy, why isn't HE Dubrovnik working at Platt, at Dubrovnik? He answered as if I had asked someone off the road what was going on down there, he says it's a job of HEP, you know, so the Ministry of Energy and HEP are two malts not from two states, institutions where each other doesn't care and I trust him to do so, everyone is allowed to do what he does. You see, I've prepared myself well for this debate, the calculation of the man who spent the entire working life in HE Platt that produces about a billion kilowatt hours, it's known how much it costs to kilowatt, that hydropower plant for the past year, it's now 13 months, it's lost about a billion kuna of revenue. That means HEP lost a billion kunas of income. So let's add up, a billion kunas less income than HE Platt, 300 million kuna less revenue than the nets that transport energy, now invests 500 million in the wind power plant and you know why now, you see how fine it says in this strategy, is but from now on whoever's building the wind power plants won't get the incentive, means what's paid for the incentives, private entrepreneurs that I don't have anything against, they just used the existing situation, they knew how to do it but I'm against being picked up like you, and I'm paying that electricity more expensive than I should. So now that HEP's all going to shave the creams, now he's going to build a wind power plant that has no premiums, etc. See, that's how politics are run in Croatia. And it's time to dig it up, but respected citizens like you will be sitting at home when the elections are over, then we'll continue to be feathered and scratched as much as possible and wherever they arrive. Let's move on a little bit now, to get up to the European level because this is the Croatian Parliament, which is unfortunately brought down to the lowest, we actually have a superior house across the road, a government or one man who is president of a party and this is a voting machine, you saw on Fridays how it works. Now you see how we stand as far as the gas is concerned. Of course, every country sees itself not to be dependent on one supplier, for example. about the Russians or the Americans or some Arab supplier. However, Germany is in breach of the EU agreement and it is working on North Stream II full of steam, why it means, directly with Russia, in breach of EU directives, why, because they need gas. And nothing to anyone. And Croatia cannot export 6000 tonnes of mandarin to Russia, why, because the embargo, beware, is political towards Russia. So Germany is building North gas flow II. Okay, they do that, we're potential, so the additional cost for HEP where he financially wants to weaken, you see, why HEP is weak, so it's a strategy, it's shrinking revenues, now he's forced himself to invest in LNG terminal in Krk, therefore it's a financially invaluable investment and I understand and I advocate diversifying the supply of energy, but please, let it be a joint project where others will invest, you know and not us Croats always pay for it and we lose, I never change Croatia, it will never support it. So twice there was an attack on HEP, for the first time directed by Vrdoljak, the second time directed by Vice President Dalic, and this is the third attempt, he set out on several sides to be financially exhausted. I could say the honor of defending HEP in 2015 because I wrote with my colleagues one study, it remained undetected, it was exactly the end of that mandate and the workers of HEP rose, we gave professional support and we narrowed it down and prevented it. And I'm proud today, and I'm gonna fight to stop this. There are things we must never sell and we will advocate from Change Croatia that about property such as HEP, such as Accumulation Lakes, there is no sale and we will enter it and we will ask it to be entered into the Constitution. And there is a sovereign here, and watch out, and then we shall see who are true sovereigns, and who do you understand these folklores? Let's just say we signed the Declaration of Kuna Protection, so some people didn't know at all, think it wasn't a matter of sovereignty. But well, I guess he'll wake up, no criticism against them. So, back to this story, you see respected citizens, I don't mind having 15 MPs sitting here, but I always talk to you because you end up deciding who will go on, what will be done, who will lead this country further or not, and you decide whether you will live in a country like this, whether we live in a country like this, or whether we will live in a country like this, or whether you will get out of your homes when the elections are, you who sit and come in that day half an hour to vote and finally make a general in this country because there are people in this country, however many of our high-quality people out there, we still have at least two, three brilliant people who can do it. But they're not here, I can't come here, I can't because it's all done not to come. Look at the media blockades. You can't talk anywhere. The main theme is who will be the head of HDZ you understand, and the state is burning, demographic decline, industrial production, etc., etc. Now I won't talk about this dirt anymore, I'll talk about it now because you know that we from the party change Croatia always after criticism we make suggestions because what is worth talking about, criticism itself if there is no proposal. We propose this, stop the urgent irrationality, the waste of HEP, the clientelism that is in it, reduce the sources of loss, inform the Croatian public about the state of HE Dubrovnik in Plat, how much damage is material, when it will start to work and who will gossip about a billion kuna damages or lack of income to HEP. Furthermore, in this regard, we are also for renewable energy sources, but you see that in practice HEP did not consider it necessary to work in the past 15, 20 years at all. Furthermore, it is necessary to legally regulate the accumulation lakes of hydropower plants of the existing ones to become inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia because HEP wants, let's be honest, to sell to private investors as everything else has been sold. It should be determined why HEP at zero kuna all the accounting value of its thermal power plants and thus brought down its value for 2.38 billion kuna, tried to implement an IPO that would be harmful etc., etc. I'm running out of time, but as you can see, gentlemen, this is an important topic, and we're going to fight for the energy independence that the Czech Republic has made, and it's a country that is completely energy independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183949	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Policy in the name of which the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183950	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So, I'm going to try to talk about this broad topic briefly because it's actually a question of which part of this strategy I'm going to start because the strategy is extremely important, and it goes into a lot of areas not only of different resources, but in all areas of human activity. And we could say figuratively that this strategy is actually an equation with a lot of unknowns where we even try to figure out the coefficients, but these coefficients are actually changing in time, so we just can't possibly be one of those equations. And in that sense, I also understand the promoter of this strategy, and it seems to me that don't even mind that this strategy should be given to the Croatian Assembly, not to the vote on it, but to the insight and that it is one document that will be constantly corrected every year because things as the promoter here said, things are changing at a great speed and what will happen tomorrow are difficult to predict. But what is certainly a grudge to this strategy, even though I said it was a comprehensive document, did not pay enough attention to some of the essential elements. So let's take the turn. What is most important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is the impact of this sector, therefore, of energy in general on the economy and on citizens, on their lives. On the one hand, an economy which either as a consumer of energy or as part of an economy which generates energy in terms of developing their competitiveness in particular in the demanding markets not only of the EU but also of the whole world, in terms of the overall development of new technologies and standards in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we have citizens who, above all, need to have secure energy available and what is the most important energy that will not be expensive. At one point, it's, in one part of the strategy, written, slightly and shyly, energy won't be cheap, renewable energy, energy isn't cheap energy. And the price will have to be paid. What's the problem at this point when we observe this strategy, which is believe the danger to the future, is energy poverty. So, in general, a large part of the citizens live at risk of poverty, and the future if we let it happen to itself, alone according to these current indicators will not be brighter and many households in the future will have significant problems with energy costs. Here, especially in, in addition to the fact about the collection of base heating raw materials, here is to give a picturesque example in Slavonia the price of heated wood has risen drastically over the last few years and will undoubtedly continue to grow. Therefore, in the strategy as one of the specifics that will replace wood as fuel with high-value pellets is, in my opinion, one such unargumented goal that will be difficult to achieve. So, as far as the economy is concerned, let's start with the energy sector itself and all those who are investing in the sector, and the strategy hopes or expects intensive private sector investment, so if we look at these goals as an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia then we could assume that by achieving these objectives, such an economy will develop which will be competitive and which share of the domestic components will increase in the investments themselves. In other words, a lot of jobs will be opened. I'm not familiar with the data, but I'm sure it's not encouraging, here's when we only take wind power plants as much as the share of domestic components, domestic products in these wind power plants. It's the same with photovoltaic cells, so these are all areas of renewable energy, and there's very important how much of the domestic component. It's on one side, when we talk about production. And of course what the strategy foresees is inclusion, simple inclusion in the market, in fact, the distribution of electricity at the place of production, and the other thing is the economy that consumes a significant part of the energy and whose production depends in fact on the price of energy, their final product and their competitiveness. We heard it here, I think Col. Dobrović gave exactly how many energys are being imported into the Republic of Croatia. And that's certainly not encouraging information. When it comes to what, something that is extremely important even though here, when a percentage of the strategy is spoken of by 1.6%, I mean increases in energy reconstruction of buildings in construction, which are significant savings, then we have to notice that in the Republic of Croatia this reconstruction is going very slowly and these objectives, which are defined by the strategy, are difficult to achieve by 2030, and then by 2050. In fact, there are a lot of obstacles, there are a lot of barriers for people to be able to use funds specifically from EU funds for this purpose, and they themselves cannot, can't finance it. Therefore, worrying was the fact that the government refused to actually use EU funds but decided by the resolution ministry that it would go into the energy reconstruction of construction through its own budget. That's the kind of information that came out in the media. And there are, above all, public facilities, hospitals that are large energy consumers, there are, of course, schools, spinning everything that belongs to the public sector, and we think that neither this strategy, nor in general which, which are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia, are taking into account the savings in this subsistence. And the Construction Act was saying something that we had discussed and brought somewhere in this assembly before, and this Construction Act is foreseen by zero energy buildings, but it may have an impact on future building of buildings, but for the existing buildings we have not seen significant shifts in the very restoration of energy, and then save energy itself. So, on the one hand, we have an economy with our demands, citizens of course with their demands and then we have restrictions on the other, and that is, above all, a restriction in the field of environmental protection. The reduction of CO2 emissions and others of course in transport are nitrogen oxides and the reduction of environmental impacts, and so also renewable energy sources such as photovoltaic cells, which are then, taking over a certain area, whether it's farmland or wind power plants, someone here mentioned the impact on birds. So these are seemingly opposed goals that we need to reconcile in order to ultimately achieve goals, and this is not easy and in this context I see this strategy and in this context I see that what we have defined by 2030, so for the next 10 years it is difficult to achieve, and although it is not ambitious especially in scenario two, and by 2050, let me say that, in fact, although this is a serious document and such turbulenceal events, it is difficult to predict what is actually going to happen, especially on two examples. But let me also look back at the public debate about this strategy and really, I still don't understand how the government has so little hearing, it just doesn't want to hear the public and the interested public, especially the professional public that some of the things that are there, which are pointed out as important at all, are simply sometimes for formal reasons being refused unless it's what counterpart Mrak Taritash said if it's some kind of purely technical intervention in terms of expression. We cannot mention in this context two, two companies, one publicly owned, these are of course HEP and INA, without them talking about the energy strategy it is really unsatisfactory, let's just take an example of the modernisation of the refinery that is mentioned here, we know what happened in Sisak and in this direction talk about, oh, without these two influences on businesses, both on the Croatian economy and on the number of jobs, then and on the energy and actually the energy supplies is, is immaterial. When we look at the transport sector in the last 50 years. Here it was built, recently put into traffic by St. John Žabno – Gradec, so it is the only railway after 50.g. which we built, 52 C.E. More specifically. At this moment there is still a construction of shares of Dugo Selo – Križevci 36.4 km worth 196,9 million Euros. It is planned to invest EUR 3.5 billion in rail infrastructure in the next period, and now look at what concerns me, and in relation to this strategy as indicated. You know what the plan is until 2030, so for the next 10 years. How many railways, how many railways are planned to electrify, electrify, so according to current data, we have about 980 km of rail which is electrified compared to 2617 km of rail, 2617 km of rail which is in HZ Infrastructure, is planned to electrify only 42.6 km of one-way railway Zaprešić – Zabok 23.9 km and Vinkovci – Vukovar 18.7 km. When we talk about a strategy like this, and including traffic, especially rail transport that is from the point of view, the ecological position is extremely acceptable then for the next 10 years. The electricity is 42km of track is not special, some kind of special goal. As far as cars and targets are concerned, we haven't set any significant, significant goals, at least in scenario 2, which is less demanding than scenario 1, I think is 85%. In fact, it's estimated that in 2050. Cars with internal combustion will not be, internal combustion cars will no longer be manufactured, about a third of them will be hybrids, a quarter of plugs, a quarter of electric cars and a little more than 10% of road vehicles on fuel and cells. What is important to point out in and out of this strategy, and also in terms of strategy and how difficult it is to make a strategy that will reconcile these two, two different requirements, so on the one hand, cheap and affordable energy and energy that will not be expensive for citizens, and on the other hand, environmentally acceptable energy is the fact that even electric cars, not mentioned in the strategy, will probably be in the future words, are not exactly ecologically neutral. Large, it will increase significant consumption, demand for lithium, cobalt, nickel and graphite for the production of batteries that are built into such cars. What do you do with these batteries that don't have a significant lifetime? In Germany, they came up with this, so they did, I think it's somewhere from 13 megawatts of capacity, a storage of energy from those batteries so that that energy could be used in some kind of top load. These are questions that are certainly also being opened before, in front of, this kind of energy development plan, and do not give unambiguous answers at all. What's good in the strategy, what can be found, and these are measures, meaning that came from the strategic environmental impact assessment process, where it is stated in the first part of the development of guidelines for the assessment of hydropower plants on the environment, the impact of hydropower plants on the environment, the impact of wind power on the environment, photovoltaic systems, I said, if this is especially true when it comes to particularly valuable agricultural land processing and, of course, the impact of all these, all renewable energy sources on cultural heritage and what I said at the beginning, and I'm going to point out once again, this is energy recovery in households and encouraging the replacement of furnaces on heating trees on wood pallets and briquettes, there should be quite careful, I don't know if you are familiar with the fact that the price of heating wood at this moment is higher than the price of gas, in Slavonia in the future we can expect that the matter to be difficult. Finally, the strategy as a document is quite, quite extensive, but not enough, not enough attention is given to certain elements, of course you said that through certain, therefore other plans will be elaborated, but at this point we cannot support A strategy like this. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183951	And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will now speak to the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183952	Dear Vice President, it's not HSU, it's Croatian sovereigns, so we're not a retirement party, we're Croatian sovereigns and the club. So today we're talking about a proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183953	I've listed you as a party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183954	All right, all right, everything, I don't mind, so today we're talking about the energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050, but in order to talk about the future we have to look a little bit into the past, here I've warned the secretary of state that we have one situation that we have to stress, which is about the gas first that is a strategic energy, we have about the same consumption and supply as in 1990, something has grown, now it's at 3 thousands and 200 million m3 and 3 billion and 200 million, and it's about 2700 1990, so it's a small difference, a small increase, but what I'm feeling sad and it's that we have a terrible fall in production and it's not good. For example. America, especially now with Trump, has turned very hard to its resources and the United States, for example. 100% settle their coal needs, 60, 70% for oil, now I'm gonna make a mistake, I got about 70 percent for gas and so on. And that's good, that's wise, that's state policy. Unfortunately, Croatia is not doing this, so as for gas, it was only 25% imports in 1990, 75% from its own needs, 75% today the situation is different, almost the other way around, today 60% are imported and only 40% are produced means from our own gas fields. You told me at the stop, it's wanted, it's pumped, it's done, okay, I'm glad to hear it, but I think it's not good enough, that we can do better, and I think if some countries are in the environment, and I think, first of all, here in Hungary and similar locations, find natural gas, here I've just checked, in the latest time, so Croatia can find in that Pannonian pool and on the other hand we have the possibility of even strengthening gas fields in the Adriatic, so in the whole of the Adriatic, not only the north, and that part is now growing, and that's what's a word and a little stagnier, but we have to work on it. The same thing is with oil, so oil today we have 500, 600,000 tons a year, a million tons a year in Croatia and we had 2.5 million tons in 1990. So we have five times less production, okay, maybe the oil fields are exhausted and maybe they're not. You told me that research is being investigated, research needs to be stepped up, and so tomorrow we rely as much on our own production as possible. This is a very important question and here I am looking forward to doing something about it even though I don't actually see, I don't see from these graphs that are very exact, that anything has been done and I think it can be done. And now the other thing that's here in this strategy is that it's turning these renewable energy sources and most colleagues have talked about it a lot, I would point out the problem here, one problem with wind power plants. So wind power plants are at first sight an acceptable form of energy, renewable but this is really about one big landscape damage. So as much as we're all going to have a consensus around the wind power plants, I still have to stress here that these wind power plants are doing one big, big landscape damage. In particular, in my Sibenik-Knin County, there are 17 wind parks in the spatial plan, there are already 6, 7, 8 of them every hill, every mountain today has a wind farm, we have situations that 100, 200 m from people's houses spin windwinds and unfortunately Croatia, first of all Dalmatia has changed its appearance thanks to wind power plants and this is not good. We have some substitut, we have, something that's much more acceptable, which is solar power plants, and I think we should do a lot more about it. One more aspect, I must point out here, so listen carefully. On Croatian soil is built a wind power plant, it starts with a Croatian storm and sells electricity to Croats and Croats. And who invested? Someone on the side. So someone earns fat, fat, fat money on Croatian soil, from the Croatian barrel and sells that electricity to us again. So under these conditions and yet we have landscape damage, so we could've introduced electricity nicely. What we need is to have a wind power plant above Sibenik if we could get under the same conditions from the same firm, let it do wind power plants in the Netherlands, we import electricity as if we were energy independent, so this electricity isn't ours, that electricity is by the company, it's a Swedish, Dutch, German firm that built that wind power plant plus here's a colleague who's the mayor of the municipality will understand me, very little these wind plants give in the budget of local self-government, that's what we'd say, petty, tip, nothing, funny. It's 0.5. 0.3. 0.4% walk, and that's a funny little bit. So a couple hundred thousand kunas per wind farm, nothing. So here's the town of Sibenik in particular, there are already 3, 4 windmen, not to be wrong, I don't think there's half a million or a million kunas a year, and those companies that deal with it are very, very, very, very useful. And now I'm going back to that commentary. Solars, or solar power plants that we at least have in Dalmatia, which we have 1,000 and 1,000 hours means insulation, means bright days, why not? And another thing, why subsidize, but real subsidies don't we allow absolutely every new house to have solars on the roof? And even force the citizens to have it? Well, it's not for us, now it's one point of the story, it's not in our interest that HEP has a good salary tomorrow, we don't care, so it's not my fault that someone who works in HEP has a good salary, it's in our interest that Croatian citizens have safe and cheap electricity. If it's the safest and cheapest way to have it through solar systems on their roofs, let's work in that direction. But in that direction, okay, there's something about it, I'm not going to say that this is completely bad, but it needs to be top, top priority, that we have until 2050, that we have 1/3 houses or half houses in Dalmatia that have enough sunny days, with solars on the roof, and that these houses are independent energy, and that every household ultimately makes money on produced energy, and then we don't need Swedish, German, French wind power plants, we don't need the sinking of ticky valleys in the face that are currently working, but we have a rich individual, cheap electricity and protected environment, and we have, we're energy independent. And that's the way, that's the way. Here, look, here's a piece of advice for some associate to note, Elon Musk has now made that roof solar and now sells those roofs, where the whole roof, every one of them baths, the chip is a photovoltaic cell, here Google it and see, contact, bring the man to produce it here. Well, Dalmatia would burn anything in here with electricity. So you have to keep that point in mind, which is that a small man in Croatia must have a secure, cheap current that we are energy independent and let's preserve the environment in this way. So the more we turn to solar energy, that's the energy of the future, definitely, and the more you realize everything, I think I've been clear enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183955	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183956	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. As regards the proposal for a strategy for energy development by the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050, we and myself, on behalf of the HSS Club at the beginning, say that we cannot accept such a proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons, because this strategy should, above all, allow RH for energy stability, independence, availability, acceptable prices and allow for development and new jobs in the context of European policies and in the context of the objectives of preventing climate change and environmental protection. This proposal for a strategy was done approximately two years ago, there were a number of public and professional debates, and here a few months ago here in the procedure for us in the Parliament, and parallel discussions were held within the European Commission. We have experienced or witnessed terrible climate change from floods in Europe to fires in Australia, and we simply need to be aware that we need to respond more quickly and quality to these challenges. The strategy must respond to the production of carbon-free energy, we believe that this strategy is conservative in all three proposed scenarios because it does not meet the objectives set by the European Commission or the strategy is not in line with the European Green Plan. The European Green Plan was presented on 11 December 2019 by the European Commission and describes how by 2050 it will be. Europe becomes the first climate neutral continent and how to boost the economy, improve health and quality of life, protect nature, and do not neglect anyone. The European Green Plan is a strategy to achieve the sustainability of the EU economy by turning climate and environmental challenges into opportunities for the development of a sustainable economy that covers all sectors of the economy, in particular transport, energy, agriculture, maintenance and building of buildings and industry. This strategy, which is ahead of us of the energy development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050, does not respect this fact and therefore the HSS cannot support it and we are looking for a new strategy in line with the European Commission's Green Plan to follow it. This strategy is not in line with the EU's objectives and does not go towards reducing energy consumption through increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of energy from renewable energy sources. This proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia takes into account only a small part of the potential and resources of renewable energy sources in Croatia. The emphasis has not been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the period until 2050, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, eu targets or meeting the objectives of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and Climate Change mitigation and adaptation. The proposal for a strategy did not take into account the necessary increase in energy efficiency as a measure which can mostly reduce the consumption of heat, cooling and electricity in the general consumption of household, service sector, agriculture and construction. The strategy should clearly include renewable energy sources in a way that promotes the production of electricity from renewable energy sources at the energy consumption site to the power of the connection where electricity will be produced primarily for its own consumption, and only the excess energy is delivered to the electromagnetic grid, but for the accounting period of one calendar year and is calculated by a two-way number of electricity. The distribution system operator is increasingly expected to provide and create conditions on the electricity market for the active inclusion of small consumers. It is certainly necessary to seek to increase the share of renewable energy sources, but without special incentives that would burden our citizens, taxpayers like this through renewable energy sources, through wind power plants, etc. In the context of the development of Croatia's energy, we should use our geostrategic position and develop renewable energy sources and technology through the transfer of knowledge to the neighbouring countries, which is not in the strategy at all. The Republic of Croatia, although in a far better geographical position with respect to the air of solar radiation compared to other EU countries, does not use enough solar radiation energy to obtain heat, cooling and electricity. The share of electricity coverage produced from solar power plants in the EU countries in 2019 was about 5% on average, and in Croatia it is only 0.4%. If Croatia had that share of 5% of total consumption then in Croatia 800 megawatts of solar power plants should already be installed, and unfortunately we only have 54 megawatts. How and when to achieve those goals? The use of solar energy is of local importance and leads to the achievement of new jobs, so these are these new green jobs that are talked about and invested in rural areas, areas of special state care, coastal areas, coastal areas, islands, these are, there are jobs that are most needed, and certainly there would be cheaper production of energy and cheaper production of all other products. Finally, Croatia reduces imports of electricity and greenhouse gas emissions. The citizens of Croatia would become richer, and new jobs of local character in the production, design, installation, control, release, maintenance, marketing and promotion of solar and thermal and photovoltaic systems will be opened in terms of the economy. Unfortunately that is this, here in the strategy it is not sufficiently highlighted and that is why we are against, and especially when it comes to agriculture, the production of electricity from biomass. It is crucial that we achieve those objectives in general that agriculture is a strategic branch, that we want to achieve food production in the Republic of Croatia enough for our own needs, and we have the potential to export and precisely in those productions where we can hardly monitor trends and prices, costs of production such as that in the production of milk, the production of electricity on such farms through biomass production would compensate for those losses in the production of milk and would not happen as it is now that in 2019 we only have 4,687 milk suppliers, and in 2013, we had more than 11,000. The fall is huge and it must be stopped because then there are new jobs and food production and consumer protection, and then it is a demographic measure because there would be people living in those areas. This must be better and better developed in both the strategy and the action plan announced as an implementing act of this strategy, and I think we must all finally understand that the production of food by us from HSS is as important as the production of energy, and that in cooperation with each other there can create preconditions for the continuation and production of milk and other types of food production currently lacking on the market in the Republic of Croatia. We see what Russia did when it turned to strategic food production, that they raised levels of production and cereals and milk and vegetables and now exporting over $25 billion, over the last year billions of dollars have increased agricultural exports. So it can be if it's targeted and planned to invest in agriculture, and that's how we keep our space and keep people in that space. Then it's both a real economic and a demographic measure. Gas, as an energy, is certainly welcome and I must mention the resistance that was at the construction of LNG terminals in Omislj, Krk, that more should be respected in the very energy projects of thought and profession but also in the opinion of the people living in those areas and that certainly after such projects, energy should not be collected to Croatian citizens and Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but the announcements are just the opposite that in the next moment and the price of gas, and also electricity should probably go up. And it should also be in the strategy to predict how, that's what, to afford our economy and our citizens that energy. When it comes to INI, it is also an important energy company in the Republic of Croatia and should be returned to ownership of the Republic of Croatia. This government has promised it, I don't know if there's anything further going on, but here's the fact that it's been promised, and nothing that's currently going on to close and reduce production or not in Sisak, that the workers are being fired, and the latest is that on other plants, workers are being forced into the Employment Office with some minimum consignors, and even here's one worker with eight children who announced that they're breaking up work relations with him. Here, it's such a company, we'll have problems at the Employment Service through social measures and the need to pay off, and INI and the Hungarian government remain profits. That's how much the government takes care of that economic operator. And when it comes to hydropotential, we are like a country rich in water, we have a good hydropotential, but we use it poorly, and especially when it comes to small hydrocentrals up to, we have power up to 10 megawatts in the Republic of Croatia built only 13, and for example, Slovenia has 600, Austria 4,000. Why is that? Entrepreneurs say because of administrative barriers and here in the strategy to say it needs to be reduced and solved administrative barriers, but the fact is that it is not done and that entrepreneurs who have capital give up investment because they simply can't wait to get 100 of what kind of documents and papers, while investment stands and capital costs. So, under urgent change of approach, especially when it comes to Croatia's electricity industry, which behaves as a monopolies and often stops such investments. That's a public and fair thing to say. And just if we manage to solve these administrative barriers there will certainly be new investments in both hydropotential and biomass electricity production, but surely Croatia's chance of building a solar energy system and that we can do the most and of course encourage the local and our economy to adapt to these industries and through secondary education create the preconditions that we have as many installers as possible of such systems and workers on maintenance and thus keep jobs both in Slavonia and on islands to finally take advantage of what God has given us because the generations that are coming will not forgive us if we do not do so now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183957	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the independent youth list on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Pranic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183958	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have an important document, one strategy, an energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, but look, before I start talking about this strategy, we have also had other strategies here in this higher home related to both public administration and pre-school system and education, I think that the Croatian state could enter the Gines Book of Records according to the established strategies and not implement these same strategies. Before we can even talk about a new 2030 strategy, we should analyse what that strategy was adopted in 2009 if I am not wrong in the assembly, what did it do in terms of energy in the Republic of Croatia? Who made the appointment if it wasn't made, where the mistakes were seen, and if we're going to correct these mistakes, and if we're going to detect the responsibility of non-implementation? In that strategy, we had, in fact, imagined even building two thermal power plants on coal that we don't have, which we're importing, one in the Tablets, one by the river. Even then, we did not detect the possibility of using renewable energy sources, but that is why some people in HEP were very good at detecting the possibility of using windscreens, according to the system that those projects that the state paid neatly from HEP, broke up work relations with HEP, entered the ownership structures of private firms, and worked through these projects neatly, which were of private importance. Who answered that? Absolutely no one was responsible. We are talking here today about the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and in the county spatial plan now of the Split-Dalmatia County... County councilman, we have a new spatial plan for the county where we are explained that state institutions have urigiled and requested the creation of 10 exploitation fields for exploration of oil and green gas in the Adriatic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if we could say that the previous strategy has been favourable to wind and coal, now we can say neatly that this strategy suits gas, gas that we also do not have and which we will also import neatly, and we know who the world's largest gas producers are, 50% of our own energy needs are covered from exports, we should reach 2030. 32% of renewable energy sources, where we need to reduce greenhouse gases and increase energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy sources. It is not clear to me that one city, one municipality can properly implement an ice lighting project, and the biggest loser, one of the biggest losers of the Republic of Croatia, such as our highways can't do it at the level of the Republic of Croatia, you can see in order to pass the highway lighting worse and by day, and we're paying the taxpayers neatly, and today we're talking about some savings at state level, so it's not a problem to rewrite a successful project, we've done it successfully in our small town, we've spent a number of local self-government units, so it's not likely that the problem to Croatian highways is the same, just one small detail, just one small example, that I'm not talking about photovoltage systems, there's no larger paradox in our small town as a Mediterranean state to be at the beginning of the EU side with Scandinavian countries using solar potential, we's potential, we're obviously not able and we'll be able to be able to be able to do so far in time 2030. where we will absolutely have a turn. And here we spent one concept "Solar City", the city of Vrgorac, 2. successfully with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Split designed the cost-effectiveness of installation of photovoltaic systems for water supply and facilities where you absolutely do not have that investment to report on any niche of any co-financing programme, national funds for such systems are not available, and the dropper is given for individual households, instead of increasing and reaching these 32% share from renewable energy sources, with emphasis on solars, that we as a state cannot create a certain one fund of money in the state budget and deploy the money to encourage households to install solarians, microsolars and stimulate the production system at the place of consumption. So it's simply not a healthy logic for me that says that we are successful, and yet I stress that we are a Mediterranean country at the start of the EU on the use of solar potential, it's really all saying that and then we wonder about climate change, and it's sad that we have a strategy that doesn't reflect the latest knowledge that we have of the very climate crisis that our planet is in. It is sad to see that in the Croatian public there must be a letter of 50 prominent and more scientists who have appealed to the Croatian public and to the political elite where they seek only one thing, not to seek the harmonisation of the strategy or to seek national means to encourage the use of renewable energy sources, but only to discuss in the public space about climate change and the impact of everything we are talking about today's energy strategy on climate change. The biggest climate change fighters, instead of having that strategy embedded already and within certain measures defined in the future, you know who our high school students are, who are neatly breaking out of class to show where this ship is sailing. And you're now asking us to support this kind of strategy without saying that an analysis has been done in the past, who's guilty, who's responsible, if something hasn't been done and what measures we're going to correct in the future. And absolutely as such a strategy, we as the Independent Youth List Club, which looks for future generations, can't and won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183959	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183960	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, so it's a strategy that's extremely important. It is extremely important in the context as we all talk about the European Green Plan or the means available. In order for us to even win the lottery, you have to buy happiness first, then you have to fill it, so this is that you even bought tickets, so without a strategy you won't be anything, without an action plan as well. What I said and on behalf of the club, I'm sorry I expected it to be more ambitious, I expected there to be more things to be solved by 2030. No one has a magic wand. So, you, it's time to adapt when you have to go somehow, but I'm going to get attached to three topics in this individual debate. One is renewable energy sources and spatial planning, the other is energy efficiency and the third is transport. So, renewable energy sources I remember for a long time, and as time goes on, I remember more and more. Once upon a time, Hrvoje Fire was doing an analysis of how renewable energy sources can be used. That analysis was using water in terms of small hydropower plants, so using the wind, so using the sun, so using the waste, so using the tides and the tides, so using the waves, so there was a series of things. But that was in another context and another story when we didn't have an environmental impact assessment at all, when we didn't have an environmental protection aspect, when nature was a mental noun. Now we have some other things, and there's experience that we have, that's what I had a replica, so when we decided to go to the wind power stations and use the wind it seemed to us in the beginning, so I'm saying in the historical context it seemed to us in the beginning that it was the simplest, the nagging pillars, you have the wind, then it still seemed to be good where there was a lot of wind to conclude that it wasn't really good, that it was much better where there was a constant wind and there was not a single spatial plan of the county, then there was no, which had no huge surfaces for the wind plants, and each of the smallest municipalities and the city that held onto itself, so to say, had some kind of wind power plant. On the way, we saw it wasn't like that. I absolutely don't mind, I think every wind power plant is talking about how the country wants to use renewable energy sources, so I don't mind, but through a series of environmental impact assessments, it's proven to exist and that in space you have to appreciate what's more important to you. Is it more important to you to protect yourself from the aspect of natural heritage, from the aspect of cultural heritage, from the aspect of another or the setting up of a wind power plant? And it is extremely important in the following processes to use the experience we have and to use in general in the process of spatial planning cooperation of all factors because it is easy to get the best possible result. And that's what you're going to be, and in this strategy, you're going to have something very gentle written, and you're going to have to take care of that. For the simple reason that once you plan something, you give someone the opportunity to realize it, you give the possibility that there might be something wrong at the wrong location. So, the wind power plants will still work and will continue to be built. What would be good for Croatia would be Croatia's brains, the Croatian industry, the Croatian economy, if we weren't like at one point it was that nothing was Croatian, that everything was from imports, that everything was coming, even the assembly foundations, and then the domestic worker didn't install those mounting foundations, but came from outside. There was quite a debate about the use of solar energy. At the beginning we all saw those big solar fields, so photovoltaic, so as it went in the Mediterranean countries, and it seemed all very convenient. I've had opportunities in some education to be in Spain, I've been there on the highlands that were really paved and then he's talking to experts who know something about it they said don't do it, it's being produced, so if you have a factory that will produce it, if you're going to have domestic production on some kind of experience then it all makes sense together. This way, you'll permanently devastate some space, you need to keep an eye on what I think is always good, I come to energy efficiency in construction, that it's good to really be on buildings. Yes individual, especially multi-state buildings if they had some kind of pilot project to show that one multi-state building or one skyscraper in Zagreb or I don't know the settlement in Zagreb can be energy independent. That's what we have in the world. We have where they are, where it's shown that through solar power plants, through everything else, it can be energy independent. And that is the future of Croatia and that part should be developed. Not to say that some countries have gone so far, I've had this opportunity to not know through literature to see that in terms of building new buildings on facades put algae. That even in terms of architecture seems quite intriguing and then these algae that actually draw on themselves and the smallest part of the sun's energy and that in terms of some bad emissions are just as absorbed and then they actually use the energy that's for that building. It is in Croatia we are still a bit of a thinking noun, we can go and in terms of planning to make sure that the buildings are set up in a way that they are the largest, most sunny days, and I'm not going to say any art, look at the Netherlands, we are in the Netherlands, and, these big, big glass rocks they have, so they don't have these big glass rocks from the hira, but because they have as many suns as possible, that they have light, so they have these desires, we don't long for it when you have, when you don't even know it. The energy efficiency project is an extremely important project, a project that can develop an economy, a project that is extremely important, extremely important and needs to be maximumly insisted on. Most of our housing sector was built when we were talking about family homes up until the '80s. Similarly, there was a great momentum, related to the development of tourism, and at all to the transformation of certain cities, then energy efficiency was indeed something that was not taken into account. So these are all the housing funds that are ideal in terms of energy efficiency, but not just in terms of what we see, but in terms of and energy that is needed for heating and cooling. Climate change is a fact, you need both energy and heating, but for the summer that it already needs, it needs to cool down, and that's some potential that we at the GLAS Club and I personally see that it can really be read and it really is, too, when you're listed here in the strategy, says the Croatian economy's greatest opportunities should be sought in the energy restoration of buildings, so in the production of domestic energy. When I look at the energy reconstruction of buildings then I see the construction industry, I see the same thing about waste that all construction waste can be used, so that's a great potential. I'm gonna go to the end, and then I'm gonna do something a little traffic-related. When it comes to traffic then the car industry will be and I'm talking about cars that are on fossil fuels, the car industry of course has the same life as any other. Cars on fossil fuels are terrible pollutants, especially in urban environments. So, on the one hand, you have to take care of spatial planning not to drag new traffic into the city center, but on the other hand, you have to take care of how polluters they are. The auto-industry will at some point and already this is the moment she adapts to some new things aware of how large the polluter is, and we have to adapt. So, some standard should be and it's through the Construction Act which was that in the new buildings that are being built, in multiple buildings you have in the garages of the obligation, so the obligation to have a place where it can be chargeable for an electric car, it has to be an obligation, it has to be when it comes to public spaces, about new malls, about public buildings, so that's what the directives are besides that which in that sense say, but we simply have to start to recognize it and we have to, it has to become an interest of the Republic, through that way some small steps, some small story, some small thing, we can get a different picture of the Republic. We thanks to the water's renewable energy We have a good situation, but reality is a little different. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183961	The next debate will be a respected representative, and we have, we have, we have replicas, the first respected representative of Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Dark Taritash, you were talking about renewable energy sources, wind power plants and so on. The constant wind, about how these plants don't do the same thing all the time, and we know that, and of course by reason of my mind, and now I'm wondering if you didn't have a better alternative to the wind plants was a gas plant that, for which we kept feeding them all the time, where we hire people, we solve the manure and protect the environment, so all the time we have one constant flow of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183963	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183964	So, what I was going through through the debate was to say, it's never good to tie yourself to just one story. About what kind of country image gets someone when you're driving that land, say when you're driving some kind of, Germany or what I know, up north, you're and you've got wind power plants telling you about using a renewable energy source. If we have wind for the wind, if we have sun for the sun, I've made it clear that I see photovoltaic cells on buildings, I see it on the rest. Gas, the question is how much we have, you at the moment you develop it and you're energy dependent on imports then the one that gives you energy dictates and rules of the game. ... Yeah, and you didn't say, I realized this gas, I also think that gas was one of the elements, though, I don't think you should ever tie to one, you should give, it's not, it's not all the same [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] So, the Republic of Croatia has this specificity [[Intruder: Thank you]] And you need to give more opportunities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183965	The next replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183966	Thank you, Vice President, Mrak-Taritash, for talking about traffic, I often like to talk about traffic in this high home, and I just think that it's, let's say, a word that we can turn to the Republic of Croatia together, but I don't think we're doing enough and I don't think we're working particularly on tax policy and on, on these other ministries that should work in synergy because we're standing here for green RH, green transport, renewable energy sources, and then we have a tax policy that has excises based on CO2 and pollution, and basically new vehicles we tax more, and we encourage imports of old vehicles, for example. from Germany to deal with it, which is now in the zone to ban traffic in certain cities, and then we are essentially what we are pretending to be at the level of the EU and the common policy of the Republic of Croatia is becoming a dump in a vehicle from Western Europe. On the other hand, we are under-incentived vehicles on an electric drive, not investing in the charging infrastructure, and that is what we need to do even more and more in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183967	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183968	Thank you, Your Honor, I'm sure when it comes to that, we don't invest enough. There should be taken into account as a first public transport, so public traffic should be kept in mind that we have, that these are electric cars, that there is no need to order buses that cost 50 people, and for a space where you really don't have any more inside what I know than 10 passengers and everything else. So these are the policies of individual, individual countries that are also at state level, but also at the level of regional and local self-government. And then we get to an individual, we really need to encourage us not to become a warehouse, at this point a car warehouse, and later the waste management. Those at the Department of Environmental Protection who deal with waste know that when you talk about electric cars that the problem is to take care of batteries that when the electric car finishes so when it becomes, then the problem is to take care of batteries. Therefore, we must take care of it now. and have a tax policy of incentives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183969	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183970	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, you mentioned in your presentation of energy efficiency and investment in the reconstruction of multi-state buildings, and that is certainly a good thing to do because in this way it has reduced energy consumption, reduced bills for spent energy to citizens, and it is certainly necessary to think further through the strategy, and especially when it comes to energy restoration of family homes, I do not know why this has stalled, for more than a year there is a competition waiting. People are constantly, the competition is delayed, people are waiting for an investment, and in this way they would help these fellow citizens, and not only them, but they would also help build a field operation where small craftsmen on the ground could get these jobs and thus preserve those jobs and preserve life in those areas. And the fact is that you also mentioned the problem of construction waste that is often delayed at wild dumps, and potentially can be exploitable only here needs to develop technology To allow construction companies to bring him there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183971	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183972	Thank you very much. I'm extremely glad you mentioned the energy restoration of the family houses. So, at all, EU funds did not recognise the possibility of a project of energy restoration of family homes for the simple reason that they are solely privately owned. And it's been waiting three years. After 3 years of waiting when the programme was adopted at EU level, then it is said that we will not participate in the programme because our programme is difficult, complicated and difficult to apply to people. It's like we're actually drunk billionaires. While you wait for the program there was no reason not to, therefore, to go from the budget of the Republic of Croatia to a set of 5,000 family houses, 10,000 not to break it down, not to open up any other possibilities, to not open green credit for family homes in banks, and now that this has come, we've said we wouldn't be joking here. It's not good for us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183973	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I am just going to continue some more things that I said on behalf of the club, so this is one very important and broad subject that can be practically talked about for hours and there are so many of those segments inside that really a man can focus on more things. Now I want to point out once again, in an individual debate, the administrative barriers and obstacles that we are facing, and in order to say here, I'm going to say on one example that was happening in the middle from which I came. So it was a few years old attempt by wind power plants to create wind energy, and that's where the scary problems came from. So the investor who was persistent, who invested EUR 2-3 million to go into the project, so I come from this sub-nebula area where there's a strong storm, where there's wind and where conditions for that part are excellent and let's say the man had the support of both municipalities and the entire local community and the environment, but there was this pile of problems. So, from environmental protection, there was a bat habitat first, so when the problem went down then there was a raw eagle zone, two individuals were there, and then there were problems, and it took years and it didn't go through, and then investors came to the ministry, and then the ministry started talking about New Vinodolski, and in fact it was the Vinodolski municipality, so people who made some decisions in Zagreb didn't even know what the environment was, and they didn't even know what the municipalities were talking about, and then they refused, said there you didn't have this or at the end of the 3-4 years of the resistance of local leaders most with the support of the county when all the barriers went to the government and to the green and environmental protection, and everything then the project eventually fell into the municipality, at the vote of the spatial plan. And in fact, it happened, and why I'm saying it now, I respect space-planning documentation, and here my colleagues before me have said that it should be the foundations of everything and I agree, but I don't think the state can even let people decide on projects of billions of amounts, and they're not even aware of those figures. So in our municipality, it fell, a billion-euro project worth a billion euros, which people had neither the capacity nor the knowledge of the project at all, to know anything about. And that's what the media wrote. So, they decided on a project that has a 100-year budget of their municipality and eventually, when it went all the way after 5-6 years, they blocked it. Now, that can't be, that barrier can't be crucial in those moments. So such projects have to be of state interest and the state has to say some things there. And on the other hand, we have, we have projects that the state then pushes over its knees that I don't mention here, knows the secretary of state exactly what I mean, which are invaluable, for which there's no interest, and then the state still points out on all the bells as some kind of strategic project and brings a lex specialis and pushes LNG in, in the Omisalj municipality, for example. Over my knee, but I don't want to talk about it, we talked about it a lot, we'll probably still talk about it. This is one example where the state may not be able to interfere, and it interferes in the way in which it interferes, and on the other hand, this strategy is well-traveled by certain problems, we need to focus on renewable energy sources, that is, I say, the energy of the wind and the energy of the sun, because our country is on God's day for that part, here on, on the island of Cres are working, doing a big project for the supply of solar energy that should basically supply the entire island with electricity, and these are, for example, good projects, some countries, so it's not just an environmental issue, it's also a matter of timing, to be among the first ones, why we shouldn't be first in Europe and take advantage of, in addition to ecological, some ecological benefits and material benefits for our country and for our economy. For the past few years, a series of projects have been launched around, around these solar panels, and let's say we have those quotas that actually hold it off, go into some kind of realization. So, I think one of the plans of action or some measure in this strategy should be immediately removed from the quotas and, and, and, let's say, pushed and, as soon as possible started and produced, produced through solar panels of electricity and that it goes and that, in order to start exporting, why don't we export electricity, is seen what the price of electricity is, say, in Italy, we have a huge space to export some of our energy. What my colleague Taritas was saying about traffic, so we're just finishing up some phase right now, that famous sign I'm driving on gas in public traffic, so buses around Zagreb, buses at my place in the River of Public Traffic, they're boasting today that they're driving on gas, and that's a good thing, and that's what we're going to go to, but in Europe they're already driving on, on electricity, while we get to power, there's going to be some new technology, so these are the things we should be working on, and that's why I expected this, of course, of this study that it's going to be a little bit more concrete, with the objectives set, by then and then we're going to do that and that, the state is going to do that, that, that, that, that, that, that and that and that. You said state secretaries in the introduction that you've already brought some action plans, so you've come up with action plans that rely on this strategy before we've brought a strategy, that's okay, but it's kind of the opposite approach to me, and we should now have some measures and action plans that would then result, and I think that this has a lot of space to, that, to be the first in Europe for some, some things, and I don't think we're doing enough, and I think that the main obstacle is once again I'm going to say investment in infrastructure, especially in gas pipelines, for example. Dalmatia is very, very thin with that infrastructure. In my county, so most of the environments have no gas flow at all, and then it all makes energy a lot, a lot more expensive than they should be, and that's where they should recognize that moment, and that's where they need to start investing, and that's where they need to be more concrete, more operational and faster and lead that common green European policy, because I'm going back to this traffic again, and those unfortunate vehicles. So, Germany is dealing with this, and it's not going to be CO2 and pollution coming to the border and saying that you're implementing a strategy, you're on a better zone than Germany, and now we're going to stop there, somewhere in Slovenia, it's not going to come to us, it's all the same sky above Europe, but we have different policies, and we're calling for a common strategy, and we really need to watch all together to give up these fossil fuels and turn to green and new technologies, or while we're using diesel vehicles, I believe that this is still going to be used for a few decades because it's just so that we should invest in technology that even these pollutions are as little as possible, but it should be some kind of a global policy, and I think that this is an important topic that is recognised at this global level, because it's not just the EU and I've been involved in a few conferences in the UN and New York City, where it's really costing all the future, so that it's very expensive and it's all of energy, and it's energy, and it's going to be in the future. Here we look at the sea level, the government likes to boast about investing in port infrastructure and how we have a Renaissance on our coast, which is true and that's very good, but what we'll get from it if in 20-30. The sea level rises in 3 m as some predict, essentially everything we do today will remain under the sea and it will be useless and that is why we must all work together to not become ignorant of Atlantis on, on, on, on, on the coast of the Adriatic, here are, these are all things and we must take this seriously and there is no room for lobbying and there is no room then even to look at the short-term some financial revenues from excise duties, for example. but we have to take one policy and there's this strategy that should be the basis, but I say there's a lot of expectations in this strategy, I hope that these expectations will become reality, but then the whole government with these policies will put a little more seriously into the higher speed and move towards the realization of all this. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183975	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183976	Thank you very much, fellow Djujic, you started to look back at the spatial plans at the beginning of your presentation. So, one of the few countries that doesn't have a state spatial plan is the Republic, we're there in another country, when we were just one of the republics, we had a spatial plan that was a good plan and which, from that point on, you read some economic orientations of the development of a particular state. I advocated it and that the Republic of Croatia has a state spatial plan with the idea that it should be brought by 2017, and then, of course, by amending the law, it was transferred to 2021. That spatial plan would read exactly what you were talking about, so the state spatial plan should, from that spatial plan, be read that the country's commitment to wind power plants, and to the exploitation fields, related to a number of things, and then more at the local level would be able to tell you what they think about it through a public debate, but then there's no longer at the local level any one of the individual interests prevents a particular project. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183977	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183978	I totally agree with you colleagues, and that's exactly why today, except that we don't have a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, let's say so, I remember when we talked about it five, six years ago, by today's laws, every municipality can bring us both a wind power plant and all these things that aren't good. Industrial zones, so we have almost every other municipality in the space-planning documentation of the industrial zone and that is economically justified and that is not economically justified and where these zones are sometimes converted into warehouses and they are not production plants at all what they should be. So I am for decentralisation, and I am for the freedom of cities and municipalities, or communities, that each of them regulates their own space as they wish, but some strategic things like energy independence, energy, the economy, entrepreneurship, but that state must still have a slightly greater influence and precisely the basis for this to happen is that national spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183979	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I actually think that the government has already listened to you about speeding up procedures and everything else, but in a very strange way, so let's say a project, a major 150 million kuna energy project from the EU funds, quits, gives up Eu money, and then finances taxpayers' money, it's a very, very interesting model to avoid strict procedures of using EU funds, supervision, control, etc., etc. I'd love to hear from you, but I'd love to hear from the people of the ministry why they're doing this. Well, this is a direct damage to the Croatian budget, the Croatian state, because 150 million from EU funds will not be taken, and we are only 25% used after 6 out of 7 years of financial perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183981	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183982	Good question, fellow Greeks, here I appeal from here, I hope that we will get the answer together, and that's really the problem, but now you've opened up a whole new topic, maybe that's why they decide on such a form of funding because when European money is at stake then it's a little more complex public procurement, then there's no mugging, no godmothers, no wires like Zagreb, etc. but every paper must be justified, certain deadlines must be respected, certain obligations must be respected, and then there is a much, much more complex process. Some give up because of the ignorance and inability to spend and execute and some give up because they may rather pay the citizens, but then I have some personal benefit but in any case it is not good to give up, not to take what we are offered when it comes to EU finances and would also like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183983	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183984	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, and I would like to share with you hope and opinion that the impact of some lobbies should not be crucial. Let me give you a concrete example. In fact, in the area of my municipality, we have made an observation to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for setting the limits of the survey field for geothermal waters. In fact, the borders are defined in a level playing field as some of the borders in Africa between countries. We made an observation because it was not in line with the end and with the area of the municipality and with all those revenues that the municipality could later receive on the basis of if there was an exploitation of that geothermal water. And of course, about the answer was, you can slow this project down but you won't stop it. So there are always certain lobbys, interests, here there was a particular interest in the other unit of local self-government but there remains doubts that there is a private interest behind this interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183985	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183986	I believe you and that's one problem, these lobbys are a problem and in the economy because you want to have some law then someone blocks you because of your finances and certain laws and blocks and certain projects, there are a number of examples there, there are a number of examples. The car industry is one big one and I'm talking again, and yet they should have an interest but not everyone in the auto industry now. So here I am when I'm talking, we have different ones here, for example. Now, in a few months, they're going to pick up excise fees again because of a different calculation, but they're going to cover only certain car brands, they're not, these others they're not, they're holding that car dealer's association, for example, they're not rebelling and they're supposed to negotiate with the government, for example. about some things. Then the sensationalistic fact is that this year a lot more new vehicles were sold in Croatia than last year and then when you enter the analysis, then you see that it's a car rental, that it's businesses and that it's traders who resell those vehicles and that ordinary users and people bought that 5 or 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183987	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183988	Respect for Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of the new Energy Development Strategy ensures sustainable energy production, reducing dependence on imports and strengthening energy security through strategic infrastructures. The special emphasis is on low-calorie energy primarily through increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, thus increasing renewable energy sources to 36.4%, increasing energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions to about 36%. I'm not an expert on energy or on electricity, so as you can see, as you can see, my accent will be based on renewable energy sources and as a veterinarian and a cattleman, I'll talk about biogas and biomass, although I am not, of course, against wind power plants or against solars. The total effects of current investment in renewable energy sources on GDP and the number of employees ranged from 350,000 kuna and 1.9 new employees per million kuna of wind power plants and 670 000 and 3.7 new employees per million kuna in biogas. The estimated impact of GDP from investment from renewable energy sources to 2030 is moving at a level of around 6 to 10 billion kuna. Renewable energy sources have even greater effects in the operational plant phase, which are the largest in biomass and biogas power plants since raw materials supplied by domestic producers are used for the plant, which increases the multiplier effects in terms of technologies that do not need raw materials. The economic viability of the use of renewable energy sources includes benefits for the entire community, primarily through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Storage and application of fertilisers, barn manure and various organic wastes result in the appearance of unpleasant smells. Fermentation reduces the production of unpleasant smells by almost 70%, Digesta almost does not smell and the unpleasant smell of ammonia disappears after several hours of administration. Biogas production, fermentation reduces the emissions of methane and nitrogen oxide that occur during the disposal of barn manure. The glass potential of methane is 25 and nitrogen oxide is as high as 295 times the greenhouse potential of carbon dioxide. Gas power plants are therefore being imposed as a solution in view of their availability and the reduction of greenhouse gases that presently pose an increasingly serious problem. They are an excellent way to meet increasingly restrictive national and European rules in the field of waste management and to exploit organic waste for energy production, where organic waste can be recycled into fertilisers. Biogas technology brings down waste volume and disposal costs. Biomass remaining after anaerobic degradation of organic matter, Digestat represents a valuable fertiliser rich in soul and phosphorus. Cogeneration has a total efficiency of between 70 and 85%, between 27 and 45% of electricity and 40 and 50% of heat. Unlike conventional power plants where total efficiency is 30 to 51% of electricity. Biogas power plants provide reliable power for the whole year over 8,000 hours a year. They also have a positive impact on the stability of the network, unlike them, at the wind power plants we have approximately 3 to 4 times the number of working hours, that's what we're saying, ma'am. Dark Taritate because they work for a while under full load and another time they don't work at all. Biogas power plants also make a positive contribution to distributed electricity production, which means the production of energy in the vicinity or at the site of consumption, thus contributing to reducing the loss and load of the distribution system as well as the security of supply from multiple sources of electricity. Therefore, on behalf of the entire agricultural and livestock sector and the Croatian agricultural chamber, we are asking for insurance, now we do not have a secretary of state, but I will stenogram, to ensure sufficient quotas for biogas plants for real farmers and cattle that have at least 50% of raw manure or manure in their own holding. The odds need to be provided to every cattleman who asks for it without any competition because this is the kind of move that solves three things. First, the production of electricity and heat from renewable sources, unlike wind power plants, uses domestic raw materials and biomass that have a multiplier effect. We only get electricity from wind power plants and there's no need for labor throughout the year as in biogas power plants. We are solving the problem of the nitrate directive due to too little soil surfaces for the disposal of manure, which is why many cattle farmers are being reduced by inspection. And thirdly, we're dealing with the smell of manure and stale manure due to the reduction in the emissions of methane by fermentation in the biogas plant, as well as the reduction of the greenhouse potential of methane and nitrogen oxide, so it must never happen again like 5 years ago during the government of Milanovic that quotas are given to speculators, that they resell them, and that we now have 10 megawatts of untapped quotas. And that was given to speculators without a single throat of cattle and without any squares of agricultural land. We produce so-called biogas plants and biomass plants. The green energy declared by the EU but also directly subsidise domestic livestock and war production and protect the environment from pollution and protect the planet. If livestock farmers do not get the opportunity to dispose of manure in biogas plants, they will no longer be able to meet the conditions of the nitrate directive, environmental standards and neither to monitor competition in the neighbourhood that produce subsidized green electricity. In conclusion, any serious interested Croatian farmer should be able to produce and sell any form of subsidized electricity, either biogas, mass or solar power, because that is how it is done in the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183989	Thank you very much. We also have some replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183990	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Križanić, it is good that you discussed this and it is good that you discussed biogas. So it's one of the renewables, and there's no reason to use all the opportunities we have. They can be used in certain parts, in certain parts, but I have to admit that I'm a little surprised that you are here now speaking to the secretary of state, the secretary of state, so after 3 years, as far as we've come, what we've done, we've done something, we're after, so we're talking about the government that is headed by Mr. Plenkovic, we've already had to do something. I know of individual cases, people who have come a long way, long efforts and who are actually connected to their agricultural economy. If we want progress, then we should really have this beauty of all services. You had a chance, I was talking about wind power plants, I said there was nothing Croatian here, and there could absolutely be an interest in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183991	Thank you. Dear Representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183992	Thank you for your comment. I'm sure you're right, 500 percent, so five years have passed since the last quota was allocated to biogas farmers, five years. For 5 years we've been waiting, here it is, now the secretary of state has come, 5 years we've been waiting for that rule, I've been meaning to ask him a question, I've had to go to the board, so I couldn't, if this rule is Mr. Secretary of State, please answer me afterwards, if this rule has come to life, if it ever comes to, to see the light of day, that our quality farmers who deal with quality agricultural production and have no place to take care of their manure or manure, that they can do it in a quality way, to biogas facilities, as they do the whole... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183993	The Honorable representative, not that was the answer, excuse me. Dear Representative Djujic is asking a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183994	Thank you very much, Vice President, all right. My colleague Križanić, so I'll do the same on this trail, I'm in favour of all forms of renewable energy production. Therefore, apriorius should not only talk about biogas plants and give up e.g. from the wind power plant because you can't do both in all parts of Croatia and this appeal to the secretary of state I'll take the same thing as your commitment in the internal elections, since the Secretary of State was in this Government of Z. Milanovic, who you're saying is wrong and that you can never repeat what she was doing, and that this government is finally, that he is here, I assume that with your criticism of him who sat in both governments, you're basically in favour of this HDZ policy of getting his mother back, so here, correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183995	Dear Representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183996	I thank you, too. So I agree with you, and I didn't say one word against the wind power plants in Dalmatia, of course, that in Dalmatia they won't build biogas plants and then drive down from Slavonia to Dalmatia. Of course I agree with you in that part. As far as the secretary of state is concerned, he's here now, so I've been talking to him, he'll certainly take this appeal well on purpose, I don't know that it's a criticism, be it a criticism if he has to, and I can say that to my prime minister, whom I greatly appreciate and respect but that within five years we haven't solved the problem of biogas plants, we haven't. And that's a fact. I, from this place, appeal again that it must be done urgently, our inspections, our cattlemen, reduce incentives for our warriors because we cannot satisfy the nitrate directive, if we had biogas plants, we would solve it as elegantly as others do and do green energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183997	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183998	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Križanić, in your debate, you pointed out that the nitrate directive is restrictive for the development of Croatian agriculture or for specific livestock farming, so can you explain how it is restrictive and how you believe that the solution is precisely in the construction of biogas power plants?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u183999	The answer of the respected representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184000	I thank you for this question. You're a little late for my debate, and then you'd hear what we're talking about, so in almost all of the northwestern part of Croatia, farmers or farmers have too little land to comply with the nitrate directive on which they drive manure or manure. If this is done in biogas plants, if the quota is obtained that all serious farmers get quota so that the manure or manure in the two animals can be solved through biogas plants, not only will we solve the problem of the nitrate directive but we will also solve the stink problem of that manure because fermentation solves the methane that causes the smell and thus solve two or three problems at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184001	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184002	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here is the proposal for a Energy Development Strategy for the Republic of Croatia by 2030, and we can say that the ultimate goal that is to achieve this strategy is to actually move to a new period of energy policy and achieve low-carbon energy. The strategy that lies ahead brings a series of energy policy initiatives with a tendency to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and increase production, and thus the consumption of renewable energy sources. The objective of course is to reduce CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases and increase this share of renewable energy in gross direct consumption. According to the data we have and in this strategy proposal, we can see the Republic of Croatia actually achieves a 27.3% share of renewable energy in direct consumption, while the EU average is almost 10% lower, it is 17.5%, and this percentage is also exceeding the target outlined for us by 2020, which is the total share of renewable energy sources of 20% in total consumption. And these data actually look positive, they look satisfactory and happy, the fact that we have achieved our percentage goals, on the matter of stakes, and that we can say much better than the EU average. But whether it is true that we have the right to pleasure without question or without questioning the possibility of improving this situation. Here, I'd like to point out a few facts that we may be either ignoring or not analyzing enough, so let's take it in order. What are renewable energy sources anyway? This law defines them as sources of energy that are preserved in nature and being restored in whole or in part. In particular, it states that water flow energy, wind energy, solar energy, biomass, biogas, geothermal sources, etc. According to the data available, this data from 2017, the largest share of renewable energy sources had solid biomass, as much as 65.4% and that is 2/3 of total renewable energy sources. By the term of solid biomass we mean wood, we mean agricultural and other organic byproducts and of course waste. And now if we look at this share of 27% of renewable energy sources in direct consumption, then a simple calculation can give us data that actually solid biomass accounted for almost 18% of direct consumption shares, which is a percentage that is actually greater than the total share of European average, i.e. the total European average in renewable energy sources. Why am I saying all this? We have already said that the strategy aims to reduce CO2 emissions and force the so-called. low-carbon energy. The advantage of biomass itself is that it is practically CO2 neutral. So we can say from the atmosphere of carbon dioxide, in the process of growth they build it up, actually they're installing carbon, oxygen is further released by breathing into the atmosphere so that the same amount of carbon is practically the same in the process of burning it back into the atmosphere, and that's why we can talk about CO2 neutrality, so when it's growing, there's a certain percentage of carbon dioxide being built in that it's almost identical to burning that part back into the atmosphere, and if we're looking at a reduction in CO2 emissions, it's certainly a biomass that's much more acceptable energy than fossil fuels because it's as neutral as we've now said, unlike fossil fuels in which it's actually accumulated carbon from biomass, but it's from biomass that's actually accumulated in biomass for centuries and it's been transformed into other forms of oil and similar gas. In this way we can see that the tree has been moving more and more from, we can say, the traditional part where, from the processing industry, it passes into the energy sector and what I would like to point out here once again is that the tree is a limited resource, but we also need to know and realize that every cubic meter of wood or for production, for the growth of every cubic meter of wood from the atmosphere is being withdrawn or assimilated about one ton of carbon dioxide, which is not negligible data, and if we seek as much carbon footprint as possible then we should be in the interest of using the wood as much as possible, as many times as possible before we turn it at the end of that path into energy or energy, that means we want to extend that time frame from the carbon dioxide binding itself into a tree to its release into the atmosphere through combustion. In such a way, the use of wood as a primary energy becomes very questionable or comes into conflict with these low-carbon energies and the like. And here we now come to the idea of using or cascade wood use, which we can say is a relatively new multidisciplinary approach and forest management, as well as wood as the main resource of these forests, which has been increasingly relevant lately at EU level, which actually wants to extend the life span of using that tree. Perhaps this cascade use of wood at first sight and is not in line with the energy approach, but at the end of that chain, this multiple use of wood, the wood is still found as energy and is actually converted into energy, although with a slightly longer route than the effort itself to, to the ultimate energy. In this way we predict the use of wood in several phases, in the first phase it is technically constructional or we can call it a built-in wood, primarily that we think of construction and so on, after losing its properties this tree is processed, it is more specifically grinding for the production of various panels and similar and only after it loses its properties should it end as energy and actually transform into the energy of combustion. Today, this topic, as we have said today, has been quite current in the EU, with us already ten years ago when Croatia's forests and, respectively, forestry dealt with these topics. The cruel biomass that I'm slowly bringing this to the conclusion as a renewable energy source and how acceptable it is precisely because of the CO2 neutrality that we were talking about earlier. However, it should be borne in mind that biomass i.e. The wood as a construction material is kept permanently bound carbon dioxide and it actually represents we can say one carbon container in organic form. Our forests are carbon sinks, and a tree like wood that binds carbon from CO2 through the process of photosynthesis is what matters to us in this case. It is up to us to keep that carbon as long as possible in the wood, which can be ensured by the long, multiple, or cascade use of that tree. Also by reducing the use of wood mass in a total share of renewable energy sources, we open space and some other sources, other energies that are not only CO2 neutral like solid biomass, but we can actually say for them that they are completely free of CO2 in this process and in this way I think that we can reduce carbon footprints, we can rationally and in fact manage wood more wisely than among other and limited resources, and in parallel with that, and gradually achieve the goals that have been outlined between us and this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184003	And on your exhibit, we have several replicas, the first of which is a respected representative of the Malacans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you spoke about renewable low-carbon energy sources, one of which is hydropower, namely, it should be one of the cleanest, coloroquerically speaking, energy sources, but you and I are from Karlova County, and I believe that you know about the Hidroelectrica Dobro and this is actually an example of how bad planning, how a terrible study of the environment can destroy something called natural pearl, nature, and this is the River Good that actually destroyed a single tourist resource, almost the only tourist resource that this region has, so not every pure energy is pure energy, and this is actually proof that it is extremely important planning, that it is an extremely important protection of the environment, and when it comes exclusively to profit, such things as happened with Hydroelectric Dobra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184005	Dear Representative Lipovscack.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184006	I thank my colleague Matteljan and this replica, I would just refer to what you said that not every pure energy is pure, so actually I would dare say that there is no pure energy, there is no such concept. As for the concrete example of the Lešče Hydropower Plant, which we were talking about, which was actually lying on the Good River or on its accumulation, that the accumulation was done or planned some 30 years ago, if not several years ago, and it seemed acceptable then, I believe that today is acceptable, but the effects present on the ground must certainly be seen in what way and in fact what happens by this action of the water wave as it can be reparated, I think that the competent ministry, county and Croatian power companies have reacted in this direction by setting up a working group, which, if I am not mistaken, already has a certain period of time working on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184007	The replica of Honorable Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184008	Thank you, Vice President. In your discussion, you were practically based on solid biomass. What's interesting is that already in 2000, the main use of new energy sources was actually on solid biomass, or here, when we see this 1557 kiloton of oil equivalent, almost 1,000 kilotons fell on solid biomass. And according to this strategy, that level stays somewhere within the box. What I may have recognized from your debate is that you suggest that perhaps more solid biomass should be used through the production of electricity, and slightly less for just heating, for example, households or space such as [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184009	Next, the answer is to the respected representative of Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184010	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague you've noticed well, so especially in some earlier time periods, it's this rigid mass that's caused most of us to say renewable energy sources. The reason is that the fully heated wood was actually placed in the category of renewable energy sources, and as regards how to use solid biomass tendencies and my actual individual dispersion was not even where it was directed, whether in the production of heat, whether in the production of electricity but using wood in the cascade model. It means that as long as the wood lasts, it doesn't happen to us to be able to say one season from the time of harvesting wood to the use of wood as energy, but that it extends as much as possible to keep the carbon contained in the wood matter as long as the time period has been kept right in the wood as in the element in the construction or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184011	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184012	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased that you mentioned this segment of forest and forest conservation in the context of the prevention of climate change and CO2 binding on yourself, there are indeed irreplaceable forests, and it should certainly be pointed out that we must also create preconditions for the development of wood industry and wood processing industry in the Republic of Croatia. And well a few years ago it was that "wood is the first" action where we had just encouraged the use of wood both in construction and in the wood processing industry and thus kept jobs in Croatia. I wouldn't be that we're increasing the quota of solid biomass to produce electricity and heat because we see that they're cutting that powerful machines we're exporting at a small price, and it'd be better if that wood mass were to be given to our woodworking industry, to keep those jobs safe. And that's how we invest in demographics. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184013	The reply of the respected representative of Liposcian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184014	A colleague of Vlaovic's in most of this I agree with you. However, I would like to try to look a little bit and beyond, to mean that we are not only entering the solid biomass that has been acquired from the current resources, or from the resources available to the state or Croatian forest and private forest owners or forest owners, but also to look through the possibility of obtaining an added mass through raising new energy deposits for which we have bright examples and in the last few years through changes to the legal regulations where we would get it, I will return to the cascade use of the classic one of those trees that we receive from the Croatian forests, and this lack, we can say, or the lack of, which can be compensated from new developments that are practically also CO2, CO2 neutral and not resulting in additional carbon release in the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184015	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184016	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I am a secretary at the beginning of today's debate, i.e. through a replica of the secretary's statement said that basically this strategy is the opposite of what Andrej Plenkovic has been saying all along. So, energy without, green energy, i.e. without CO2, the energy of environmental, air and what is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is of course energy and that the strategy must exist. Indeed, however, more strategies and more money for strategies have been adopted in Croatia, spent, empty documentation, and none have been respected. So we have a huge one problem that we always talk about strategy, and it's always the opposite in the interest of who knows whose. As far as energy is concerned, I said it at the beginning, you respected secretaries with the ministry, with this strategy this energy development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view of 2050, in fact you are playing in.../incomprehensible/... and Andrej Plenkovic, prime minister in space. It is often called for by the Council of Europe, the European Commission, to decide that we should go according to the meaning of environmental protection, i.e. green energy. renewable energy sources. Of course, when we look at renewable energy sources we should look at, you are all listed here in this strategy, I have read, even if I were to be obvious, you listed this fossil fuel here, they are not exactly forgotten, they are pointed out, they are in spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia, and also in Split-Dalmatia County alone on the Adriatic 9 of these new research sites we have in the spatial plan which is now, this and public insight, means public debate, meaning 9, Dinar Mountains, Dinara is drilling, being explored, so in fossil fuels a lot in this strategy, but also mainly in the gas business. That you are working less CO2 gas, that less CO2 gas, but of course there is also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to force this gas business. When we compare that the Republic of Croatia has 0,34% of its energy here in the Mediterranean to have God-given, a large number of sunny days, that 0.34% of its energy in the Republic of Croatia is produced, 0.34% of the solar energy, and in Europe, that is, in the European Union on average 5%, means even Finland more than we produce, more, and Finland, we know how to compare Finland with Croatia, which is here in the Mediterranean where it is sad, disappointing, and I'm sorry what is no longer given to that green energy, that is, on solars, because every part of the solar system would also cause the economy, and production, and the independence of the family when this subsidized energy, I have nothing against wind power plants in terms of energy production, but when I have a museum of money from the pockets and go to strangers, you know, it's a problem when a billion and a half kuna a year we give who knows who the subsidies. I will repeat this was brought by the government of Zoran Milanovic, then was Minister Vrdoljak, at the last session of the government he brought these measures for subsidisation, so, renewable energy sources, where, then, that money goes where it goes. And when we look at how many roofs, how much we invest money, resources, in the wind, that is, how much we invest, HEP in some kind of development projects, which is why HEP couldn't either a state company or someone, because it's energy, we're talking about energy. Why would they give foreign owners that kind of money in their pockets, a billion and a half kuna a year? The wind power plants are down nothing, so they were, here's the way Knina go up the coast, I don't know how much Croatian there is, how much there is in the world to go to a part of the wind power plant, first of all Croatian, is not, and with the solarists we would have solved, means the energy poverty of the people of the socially sensitive, these energy poor who have no heat, so we have to invest what God has given us, and by the wind, that the sun is also ours. And if Prime Minister Plenkovic says we are in favour, and that is the European Commission Strategy, the European Council, green energy, environmental conservation, air, this one at the end, and quite the opposite document. Fuel fossils are forced here, not forgotten. They even force themselves here. So I don't see anything here thinking about it in a sustainable way, even though Europe is calling for it, the prime minister in particular. When we look at the demographic image, is the demographic potential of people, the needs of Croatia, of course, that renewable energy sources, I will speak and renewable, tribe to develop, so just before the tree mentioned, all of this can be used, and in development, and the survival of people in that area, you can make good energy, see that on the market various products that are made of wood that are a lot, this, on the market, take over the market, but when we look at the total subsidy, that is, the money that citizens pay, go to foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the most wind power plant when I look over there that Knin end, when I look, the most... right in those areas, and I know for sure that now around my Sinj, on every hill, and it was signed in the fifth month of 2002,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mount, there's a fortress of blue, who was on the Mount of Sinai, all around when you go to the fortress, you'll see the wind power plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So along the coast, wind power plants. The question is, how much has Croatia protected its national interest here, the question is, who are we paying subsidies to? Foreigners. And as for the gas, that's the theme for itself. We know that interests, and that's where they make moves, and we know that HNS isn't immune from that. That he's not immune from it. He's not immune. Here's exactly what I'm going to reply to when he asks, and I'm going to say it because right now he wouldn't waste his time just three minutes. So energy is very important, with air, water, agricultural land that will also make soon-to-be, energy is very important, and we only have sunny... Well, we gave you the Microsolars Act, half a billion kunas a year to give our poor woman for heat, if we had built them microsolars, we would have saved them that money, people would have been independent, billions and a half of kunas a year from our citizens you take subsidies, foreigners go, a billion kunas pay wind-power supplies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that these wind power plants absolutely Croatian society has nothing to do with it, except... I can also talk about hydrocentrals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This area is demographically forgotten where energy is produced. Here's my Cetina 40% hydropower production, Cetina 40% of the Republic of Croatia's hydropower, 40% of it's familiar to you. Except for the harmful projects, the garbage that... On all sides, your Rules, your minister, there is absolutely no investment in that area, except that every year we have to fight these harmful projects, the gas business, this-that one, you just have to, and 40% of the hydropower is not little. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To see infrastructure, low-voltage, what it is, so it's not in Western movies, in Western movies in one environment, so everywhere, where your poor neighborhoods are, it's exploitation fields, there's interests, there's interests, interests, and it's solved, no problem. The interests, the problems, the wind power plants that take us a billion and a half, why would HEP do that, why would the roses wind HEP this, HEP pay for the roses of the winds, of course someone else will do projects, and it's all coming from HEP, it's not you, I don't know how responsible you are now, the bosses become, they deal, and of course what have citizens of it? That's not the point. That's why the people leave, is it? They suck out pockets, so I personally advocate that we have room for microsolars, the MOST Club has proposed and the Microsolars Act, each part of the microsolars must be produced... Croatian brains, install Croatian brains, produce electricity Croatian brains, I think only these subsidies, only what we give, I am not against the wind power plant, but let it be in Croatian interest, let... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let the Croatian people benefit from it, not someone... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An invisible man who works for whose interests, just for the sake of construction, is donated to him along the way, and he's dealing with a building maybe, on the replica of a colleague, I'm going to talk about a piece of the replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rest, otherwise here is Plenkovic in the cups, the ministry of your distinguished secretaries, it is ultimately that you are not fighting for green energy, for the preservation of greenhouse gases, against fossil fuels, but, in fact, it encourages both development and drilling and everything, it is visible from spatial plans, and from this strategy. Maybe it's unserious, you're allowed to see your colleague, Boric, it's unserious, it's important that they're full of pockets. Thank you very much. To get... how much tribune.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184017	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184018	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you said Finland produces more solar energy than Croatia. We know that Finland has a climate half, not just a position, a geographical half a year early, half a year of polar night, so how is that possible? Where is the problem why Croatia does not produce? Does the Croatian Government have anything to do with this? That's one thing. And the second question, counterpart Zekanovic said that because of these renewable energy sources, wind power plants and other Dalmatia no longer look what it looked like. So how does it all come together to reconcile both the energy production and the equipment needed to produce energy and our energy needs and the desire for Dalmatia to still be a rock, salt and olive, how do you put all this together to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184019	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184020	It's a real question at the table. I will repeat once again that as far as this first part of solar energy is concerned, Croatia produces 0.34% annually, and the EU 5% on average, even those countries that are much more northern Finland are nothing behind Croatia, even more, and we know that there is absolutely as you said half a polar day, half a polar night half a year. As far as wind power plants are concerned, if we have eyes, the wind power plants are only large, they're landscapes essentially destroyed, and that subsidy problem is that not a single piece is from the Republic of Croatia, those wind plants have no contact, and the incentives absolutely go to foreign owners. And while we have roofs for the sun, we have surfaces for the sun, we have the possibility that Croatian smarts also produce wind power plants, we have Končar, we have institutes, but no, all subsidies are milked out of the pocket of the Republic of Croatia, and indeed they threaten already a bit of the landscape of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184021	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184022	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj from your debate I realized that you are dissatisfied with the state you are currently in, but you are actually satisfied with the strategy because 2030, as the strategy envisioned by HE would produce 7,300, wind power plants 4.300, solar power plants 1,300 GWh, and thermal power plants including gas only 719 GWh or 4.1% of total electricity generation would be from thermal power plants. If we look at what the strategy says for 2050, it's an even better indicator because an even bigger percentage goes towards solar power plants, it rises to 17.4%. So from your debate, I realized that you actually support the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184023	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184024	Well, mostly I think that Croatia is a recordr by number of strategies, and mostly unfulfilled strategies, so this is a dead letter on paper, and we know that, we're witnessing it. Here is a moment ago, my colleague Klisovic mentioned what Dalmatia looks like and how to reconcile the destruction of landscapes in the area of Dalmatia with wind power plants of which we have no use as citizens of the Republic, we pay subsidies to foreigners, and we have our own companies, state-owned companies. Energy is a national interest, it's not an INA, so SDP started with white nights, so Sanader ended up handing out, energy potential is an INA, you don't have to laugh... so we don't have to give wind power plants, wind parks give to strangers that they fill pockets. And also, as far as strategies and stuff are concerned, this is a dead letter on paper, you're aware that it encourages the only interesting lobby that's there, here I am waiting for a colleague from the HNS to ask me a question, so I'm going to answer him if I don't have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184025	The next is the replica of the respected MP, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184026	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, the strategy is always good. Is it good, it's going to be done that question. However, we are a country that has a favourable position, we have one of the most favourable positions in Europe, looking at solar power plants, wind power plants, natural wealth, agriculture, gas, oil, but if this strategy is just a story, and there is no strategy like we signed before New Year's, Christmas those things that we didn't need for wind power plants we all know well, but I hope that we will once try to build a good strategy bar in solar power plants where we have convenience. And Slavonia is more sunny than Dalmatia and should work on it, no need to talk about it. We know that the product will be easier made than recycled, and we need to know that. It's easier to make a product than to recycle, recycling will be more expensive than production and that's the future. Now how much of that we're gonna do, you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184027	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184028	Well, it would all agree that sunny days, sunny energy in Croatia not only in Dalmatia, but throughout the Republic of Croatia, by the number of sunny days, can solve this renewable source throughout the Republic of Croatia and that is a potential huge and what you have said about our economy and our mind. And of course this other problem that's recycling would also find the same way, and it's also this problem. In my opinion, all strategies are being adopted, brought against the form, because the real situation on the ground is quite different. There are no days for wind parks not to move, but these are so many interests connected that those brothers will raise a riot, report a criminal who mentions them, they've been so edgy but the only incentive goes to foreign investors, who put those wind power plants, who knows. I know the exact date when the wind power stations are signed, now all of Sinj will be surrounded by wind power plants, every hill, hill, but... Croatian companies rather than foreign companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184029	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184030	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, here's to using your analogy. If we care about environmentalism, then we don't care about people or people enough to have cheap energy and they earn if they're our Croats, then it's okay, then environmentalism can come to another plan. Or not. The analogy of your speech tells us that you want to please solar, battery manufacturers if they are Croatian citizens and owners of real estate kings who have large land, large roofs that can put solars and you actually play in their interest. That would be some analogy of yours if we were looking at this the other way around. Of course, I know, I believe that it is not so regardless of your fellow parties who may be dealing with it, so we must always reconcile what is the interest of citizens and of course what is the interest of the environment and that is the main purpose of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184031	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184032	Yes, yes, yes, I have a great interest in having a problem today that we give over half a billion kunas a year to microsolars, half a billion kunas to people, families that are energy poor, and for that money we could solve 8,000 families a year, set them up with microsolars, is that the problem? 8,000 microsolars per 5 kilowatts. Or, for example, here in Sinj, the man is a 100% disabled Homeland War, he's severely mobile, he's really hurt and he's built on his single facility 30 kilowatt solar power plant and entrance, the exit, everything he's done in accordance and he can't get and he's letting go of the kilowatts because it's nice to wind power plants, but the money goes to strangers, you know, I don't have a problem in front of my house let them put it in front of my house if it goes into Croatian interests, for the Croatian company, to invest in Croatia, not to give us money from the pockets of the foreign parties what's left. The muse, so they encourage the muse. So let the Croatian mind, insignificantly, you work, however, import lobby stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184033	Thank you, now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić will say something about it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. A little bit on this topic so far what we have discussed, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative Bulj, is true that up to a year and a few days ago in Croatia there have been 54 megawatts of installed solar plants, it is true that in 2018, a law on self-supply that has maximumly simplified the story of how to install solars on their houses and on buildings of business and others, it is true that in 2019 30 megawatts of new solars were installed, meaning that from 54, we are already at 84, it is true that the strategy is foreseen that by 2020, by the end of 2020, it will be 96 megawatts of solarists, I am convinced that there will be more because the strategy is quite conservative, it is true that the strategy provides for 768 megawatts of solarars by 2030, I would betrestly cross that amount, so we are convinced by sub-legal acts and by means of the new law of self-prepar. Last time you "flee", you didn't run away, you should have gone somewhere when there was a debate on the past law where you talked about solarists, where I gave you the information and here I repeat it again, there will be a competition through the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency for microsolars that you keep talking about at home, not all the funds have been used because the citizens haven't reported and the incentive was from 40 to the area of special state care, 80%. So I would ask all of you Assembly representatives to use maximum energy together with us to draw attention to our citizens to prepare projects and that the next competition that will be safe in this year will be, which will be more productive than it was last year, to apply and participate in it. So why are we as the state and the one you're always talking about, which is the same as our country, we've determined that more megawatts were made in the wind than in the sun, so because the Sun's incentive was 5 times, from 4 to 5 times bigger than for the wind, because then the Sun's technology was x times bigger, and the whole idea of incentives was to encourage something because without incentives, there was no production, whether it was reasonable by the Republic to pull more megawatts on the subject of the same amount of money, so it was absolutely justified for me. Whether we should have gotten into a situation sooner or later to introduce new premium models, maybe we should have, but I can speak here for the administration of the one I represent, we are now in a position to go very quickly with the new premium model, that we have made all the sublaws, and that's that. I cannot understand that we are not ambitious when we are the 6th state of ambition in Europe, so in front of us are Denmark, Finland, Lithuania, Sweden and Austria. We're 6, I can't understand that someone here is saying that we're not ambitious. And this strategy of ours, and when you look at all these situations and our indicators, we're through renewables, through low carbon society, we're practically sixth. So the waste that was talked about, the strategy says, non-renewable waste is a potential idea for some kind of energy use, non-renewable, so clearly renewable, who would burn crazy renewable waste. So, and as far as these issues of yours are concerned, about gas, about oil. The responsible state that wants to have its own future guaranteed tomorrow means it's doing everything it can to try to raise its reserves in its own kind of energy. This is what we do, fear of Split-Dalmatia County is the theme that the fields that will be registered will not, because research from the coast cannot be done but on 10 km or 15, exploitation of also protected areas. This means that complete Split-Dalmatia County theoretically some research can have in the open sea or in ZERP which is not a problem at all, theoretically, and when it will be and how it will be far from it. So, for that, that's why I'm thanking you for the debate, and I think this is, maybe I've contributed a little bit to understanding it because I don't like the same mantra all the time as if it's all wrong. It's not true, it's a well-set system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184035	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184036	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, so many have said that we protect our national interests and our energy, so they've gone white nights, INA's gone, they've gone all the way away, so here we are, and the incentives of our citizens who pay for who knows where, and there's huge subsidies involved. You know that it's billions, billions of kunas that could be invested in our system, means that Croatia is, that's Croatia's interest, Republic of Croatia, and you don't see, you see in Dalmatia how many wind parks there are and you know how many subsidies we pay and to whom, not domestic producers but foreign producers, and the sun and Croatia have the sun, as well, only that 8 of these half-billion kunas per year are given for less energy-dependent families and poor people so far, you could solve all problems in the Republic on this matter of energy-dependent families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184037	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184038	Thank you. First of all, we give nothing to foreigners, secondly we give nothing, this HROTE pays off, HROTE pays off to Croatian companies that work neatly in the Republic of Croatia, which pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia, who regularly employ people in the Republic of Croatia, who regularly pay local self-government from supplied energy percentages. So don't talk to the Croatian citizen here as if something was given as if we were at a market in Zadvarje Or Benkovec. [[Don't throw it out of the bench, please.]] So we're simply paying what the law agreed and done, and I was telling you a little while ago it's about an incentive system that just comes out. Such a system will be no more. The funds that will continue to be collected will be used for a premium system that is much better because with a smaller amount of money much more megawatts could.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184039	The next replica is the respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184040	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, when I spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, then I asked you for the European status of the TAP and IAP project is the project still on the list of projects of the EU's common interest? He was there during Milanovic's government until 2015, then it seems to me if I remember correctly when Oreshkovic's government was in effect then it turned out somehow. I guess not on purpose, but just no one's stood up too hard. How do you know right now if you don't know, if you don't know, you can send me information when you're asking questions about this project is in the context of the EU? It also seems very important to me as a Croatian contribution to EU energy security, as well as to Croatia itself. If I didn't say how much Plinacro or who was on that pipe, it would have been this one, how much he could make by passing that gas through a pipe like that. But I do know that funding across the EU is much simpler than that itself.../incomprehensible/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184041	Answer, Your Honor's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184042	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative Klisovic, this project is both current on our part. Under quotes, the problem that is being solved these days is that Montenegro has not signed or finally entered into a joint venture to run the whole project. We expect the literality of this through to this southern corridor that will be in Baku at the end of the month to do so. So we gave up the project we did not, Croatia is the leader in the project in a way that Plinacro actively participates in it. It's been arranged for both this and the headquarters of the company that's to be in Dugopol. So we're not giving up on this project, it's a big bite, and as far as the project is concerned, we've received support and more countries for the candidacy, so we expect this project to go in the direction it's already been drawn up before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184043	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184044	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, incentives are certainly a benefit to the Croatian state and Croatian people, but incentives must be clear, transparent and in more and even on television. Knowing when solar power plants were first encouraged only certain people who were involved in politics and co-operated with politics. Today, if incentives are to go to solar or any power plants are to be publicly announced on HRT that the entire population is familiar with what the state wants to give. So you'll see how many people are going to sign up and want to, wants a boost. Don't publish in some votes where 90. 95% of people don't read. I know that this government wants to take one step and it has, and I will certainly say it, more than any government so far, but when the incentives are shared, all Croatian citizens must know about it. In what way do I think that television is the strongest medium, which everyone sees, but certain structures are not read and unfortunately the people don't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184045	The answer was respected by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184046	Thanks for asking. As far as advertising is concerned, the incentive or possibility of subsidising the solar system that was now available last year was with the announcement of competitions in public votes and the competition was public and transparent. And that's the general rule, and now that it's both premium and our other models are going to be the first announcement and public announcement that it's going to be prepared and then there's going to be a publication later. And there will be no one who comes first, but there will be a public competition, who meets the conditions so that there will be no misunderstandings on the subject when there was, where there was, who was where the things were sent. I think that we are trying to communicate as transparently as possible with both the Croatian public and the interested public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184047	Before we continue our work we welcome the gallery of the female general high school Association of Sisters of Mercy with the right of the public from Zagreb. And now, with individual debate, the esteemed representative, Stjepan Curaj, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184048	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll just brief a few things to point out. Says the main strategic goals of energy development of the Republic of Croatia are: growing, flexible and sustainable energy production by reducing dependence on energy imports, halting domestic production by optimal use of existing production capacities and investing in new production. So if it were to sublime diversification from different supply routes, security of supply and economics, that is, cheaper energy that is the main and basic one of the specifics of this strategy and I think of all of us. If today we were to ask citizens who are tormenting with the end and those who are a little bit better standing, would 50% more expensive energy from some renewable sources or like they are paying so far? Well, I don't know how many of them would be eco-aware if it meant less money for their own child, less money for existence, less money for everything they needed, and that barely bothers the end. So you care about the environment that, you know, you care about a man, you know, let's get these two things back together. Another strategy, the development of energy infrastructure and new supply and direction of energy, the transfer of fewer losses, as efficiently as possible, the availability of energy infrastructure, the more direction of energy. It's like a LNG terminal on Krk. As an insurance that no one can blackmail us with the price of energy or with the price of gas, both indirectly and the price of energy and as a possibility of responding to the market, if this goes up that our citizens always have the guaranteed amount to heat or use energy. That's a smart way. Is that what it costs? It's worth it. Do we have to do it or should we? Well, of course, not only in terms of Croatia's well-being but also in this part of Europe, is it recognized as a European project at the very end of the line they co-finance it. Third, more energy efficiency. So the optimization of energy consumption, we've done the best by energy reconstruction of buildings where almost 95% of the projected European funds are used for it, so it's more or less a recordr than the ministries where it goes back to rebuilding multi-state buildings, and families' houses are going almost 150 million kuna from their own resources, and the envisaged potential European funds will be transferred to the one that goes extremely well because the citizens recognized it. How did they recognize it? Well, by making their bills cheaper, by closing the story. That's what I said at the beginning, citizens have to feel it, they have to see it, they have to benefit from it, not beautiful wishes and letters on paper. What did we hear here today? We are talking about renewable energy sources, then it is said in one hand that we care about the environment, and says natural gas from the strategy will play a significant role in switching to a low-carbon economy as fossil fuel with the least carbon dioxide emissions, meaning the most environmentally acceptable of fossils. Then we're talking about HE, but when it comes to making, stop saving the environment, don't give Cetina, don't give Peru, don't let me know what not. What do we do now? We're going to drill gas to reduce dependence on whether the vast majority of our citizens are heating up on gas, directly or indirectly, and no, we stop again because of something that has the least emissions, which is the most ecological of all fossil fuels. The renewable sources of energy, we had 10, 15 years ago as we see in Germany these wind power plants as beautiful, Denmark, the Netherlands, even if it was with us and the government once before, perhaps, and Sanader's insignificant, bring in some regulation we go to encourage it, we want to be eco-aware, but not on the burden so many of our citizens, so the government will encourage something, etc., something starts to realize that it may not have the best physiability and then it gets halved, watch out Minister Vrdoljak has halved the quotas from 1.2 to 600 MW subsidies, so by the end of the year for those contracts that were supposed to be 800, so it's downgraded, and then it's been charged to the oil lobby, now he's hit this lobby, and now he wants to accommodate the microslar and batteries producers directly, but I guess it's fine if they're Croatian, so he's eligible for the gas business, but on the other side of gas. What's the point? We need to know what we want and where we want to be. It's this strategy and how we want to come. But not at all costs and unthinkable overnight and on the burden of our citizens. I used to say that here, every one of us would want cheap electricity available, none of us would want to have a trafo station next door, none of us. The same thing is with everyone else, it's normal and there's a state that needs to assess what level of risk the energy supply is acceptable to and what's really important to all of us. Because we have to think about citizens, about the system, about security because when people run out of gas, they won't ask someone where they come from and what comes from when people start to freeze. They'll just ask why it's gone and who's guilty, no one will even remember, God forbid it comes to Bulja or anyone else who's been saying not this, that's why, because it's very important, it's important in the strategy to think of course and the environment of ours what we're going to leave behind for generations that's why it's important, that's why it's looking at renewable energy sources and the whole system of management, so this sounds ugly to us Croats especially when someone puts a strategy until 2050, so whoever lives dead and it's known that it's only in 4 years, who's going to think 10 or 30. In advance, it looks like a joke, like some high-ranking, smart countries do that, smart countries do that, now we tell the citizens 2050 who are asking you what they're asking, and now we determine where we want to be in 20-30. Then it'll be late, and if we look at the short-term political points that someone can get no today, we won't be anywhere in 30 years. Even worse and that's the difference, we're going to think about the next election and the next generations, but it's hard to get away from it is always everyone moving away from themselves, so it's more important to him what's going to be in the next election and that's 90% of the reason when we talk about that rare sector and strategy and in general about this which we've always had a chance to hear, debate, motivation for some remarks, suggestions, don't give God some accusations, etc., and everything can be turned around however you want, so of course this is not a stone, this is not a sacred letter, this is something that needs to be changed, a sumarum, new technologies, ways, we don't stick to this or who's drunk, but we know what we want to do there, and in what way it is cheap security, nothing more, nothing more and environmentally acceptable, sumum and it's so simple and all of it's just saying and we's all the wrong, and we have a lot of what we's easy to learn from the wrong, and we're to learn, and we're all the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and we's not going to learn, and we's, and we's, and we're all the wrong, and we're all the wrong, and we's, and we're all the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and the wrong, and we's, and we're not really, and we're going to do, and we's, and we's, and we's, and we's, and we's, and we're not really, and we're not really, and we're not really, and we't going, and we're not really, and we're all of the wrong, and we're not really, and we're going, and we's, and we', and we's not really, and we're not really, and we's, and we' of the wrong, and we' of the wrong, and we' of the wrong, and we's, and we' of the wrong, and we', we', we' Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184049	We have one replica of the respected representative of Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184050	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Curaj, I will look back on the part where you spoke about energy efficiency or energy saving that is certainly important in this strategy. We know that the energy renovation of buildings saves up to 60%, so it is also a major energy savings because we are renewing over 1400 buildings, which hospital, school, kindergarten, but there have been several discussions mentioned that we did not want to take money from the EU for, from EU funds for family homes, can you once again explain that these funds are not lost, that they have been redirected, and that indeed those who discussed probably did not have a case to work or be able to see what one documentation for a multi-purpose residential building looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184051	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184052	I thank you, that fellow Members, it's so casually politically quite interesting again, I say we don't want other people's money, we're going to do it ourselves, and not knowing what we're getting with it. The procedure itself is that a family that should submit to the European criteria and way of obtaining from funds does so through its managers, through the costs they have to write the project, applications of the project, etc. and the implementation and reporting and monitoring would be difficult to implement, and the other ones who would get later would have some foams, so everyone would not know what they're talking about and who they should think about in advance. These coins are first of all not lost, they will be re-designed, and it is ensured by simpler criteria ways from funds, almost 150 million kunas for the immediate restoration of family homes that are moving this spring, so that we will get, be smart, use what we are offered and help our man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184053	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184054	Thank you Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased.../The speaker disfellowshipped/...energy, here in my right hand I hold the Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2009. until 2020. This strategy is a clean one analysis, a list of beautiful desires that is focused on the purchase of energy, this is not respected or partially, this old strategy is not worth anything like most of the promises and strategies made by this government, but also by the SDP Government, this is where the place is right now, this is a strategy that will be adopted in 2020, a new strategy, by 2030. With a view to 2050, here's the first thing I'd like to do is refer a little bit to this one with a view of 2050. In the Republic of Croatia, we don't see a long-sighted year in advance let alone 10, let alone 30, we don't have strategies until 2030, and let alone 2050, this is the same analysis where you've actually washed your hands from any investment in energy and some energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, literally all of which you're putting down on some private capital that will by some miracle come into Europe's most corrupt country and put money into it, there will only be speculators and mules who will get rich at speed and you'll benefit from it, I'm convinced. This is where I don't have to wait 10 years. To throw it in the trash, I throw it right away because there's a place for this, this is just an analysis. This isn't going to solve anything. This isn't an energy strategy. Now that I'm very glad that this much of a HEP colleague is this I apologize from the HNS, I hope that someone will give the same replica, HEP, who is under HNS control, is except for that fellow who smiles from HDZ who robbed the Croatian state, these HNS's have robbed HEP and are still robbing it and will continue to rob it until HEP is sold. And these in HDZ will sell HEP only the question when and the question is whether we as citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we here as MPs will allow it. And HEP, your HEP has a monopoly over all the distribution and production of energy in Croatia and as such will remain as one monopoly. Why? So it could be sold. Because the one who buys it, he'll want a monopoly, just as it was with T-Co, just as it was with INA, he'll want to buy the entire Croatian market. And that's why the HNS team. HEP will not allow this market to be separated, to be paved, HEP must remain a monopoliest. And how is he going to do that? Well, let's call it strategy. These are not strategies, they will do everything to keep HEP monopolist, not to invest in households in solar panels on roofs, in power plants, i.e. mini power plants up to 10MW that will be owned or units of local self-government or citizens. There's something the secretary of state said, he said here I'm going to quote that this is an "ambitious 6th strategy of ambition in Europe", so I laughed as he said it. So what's that ambitious about? Nothing at all. You know what would be ambitious? It would be ambitious if you were to invest the money you're going to invest here in the next 10 years, that's about 140 billion kuna. Which you expect to invest, so if we were to do exactly 10 solar power plants of 700 GWh each for that 140 billion, that would be ambitious. 10 power plants every 1 km2, there, say, after the Dalmatian burn. And then if we had such ten solar power plants, if we were to advance on something in Europe, if others were a role model, see, then I could say that we're ambitious. This is a shame that you gave us, and I hope this will end up in the trash on your side, that something new will be done, even if I doubt why. If we had solar power plants, we would solve the problem of electricity throughout Croatia, as much as we would have electricity for export. If we combine it with HE, with larger HE, not all the rivers, of course we won't destroy the environment, on a river that floods, say Savi, we could run that power when it's the most expensive, we could export it out, we could sell it, we could make money. But we're not doing it. Arrests from HEP, i.e. From HNS to HEP, they literally milk HEP as a milk cow, it's a muse. And be careful if the muse that HEP has 2 billion wins, be careful. And imagine how much you'd have had if it wasn't for HNS at the head of that big state firm? Imagine if every year we put that money into, say, big solar farms, and we can, without half a problem over the next 10 years, invest money in 10 solar farms, which is the best thing that'll pay us off in 5 to 7 years. Probably for 5, you know why? Because the price of energy is going to go up every year, it's going to be more expensive and expensive. And as for recycling, as some of you here have said, so you have patented technology for recycling solar panels, cells, and what's best to pay you to get those old solar panels, we won't have to pay and store it. It's just that we're 10, 20, 50 years in our heads in the past, and we just don't follow new technologies, because that's just how people work in the government, in the ministries, everywhere, these are people whose time has come, who have run over. But here they are, unfortunately, still here, this government is still here, after which another government will come, which will be the same as that, so I don't see our salvation here unless some new parties come to power. I am now in these 10 minutes, this is a very extensive topic, and I won't be able to get a lot of touch on either the oil sites or the fracking or the waste management of what's connected. I'll just tell you something, we've got oil sites for this whole base somewhere around 72% is in Croatia, 900 billion dollars worth of oil that we can exploit for the next 30 years, 900 billion dollars, I don't even know if you realize what that figure is. And what are we going to do? So we'll sell everything to strangers. So why should Croatia make money on anything? He won't make a living. He'll make someone else. And worst of all, these strangers when they come to you they don't care about the environment, they'll come to you with hydraulic fractures and pollute your drinking water. The viewers who watch this if they don't know what fracking is, it's when under pressure you inject water with chemicals that then bites the rocks and create cracks through which oil and gas enters, and so can be drawn. But, of course, the masters don't even take it out in most cases, but they're obsessing about it and it goes into the water stream, pollutes all the drinking water that's going to happen in Croatia. We still have drinking water, and we won't have that for long either. For some change, for some small amounts of what Croatia will get it is a shame, it is a me in the level of high treason. And we're doing it. So I mentioned we should go to small power plants up to 10 MW to small HEs that are placed on the edges of rivers that don't occupy the entire stream. With such a strategy, we would decentralize this hep monopoly, and unfortunately HEP will not be here much longer. As far as the waste management system is concerned, it is directly linked to the energy strategy in the context of eco-hard fuel or so on. SRF fuel, but for that, we have to have a waste management system that works, so it's a detachment, so that the waste that remains biological, can be crossed, can be driven into further processing, but unfortunately we don't have that either. We have an expert in Croatia called Dr. Glasnović, of one of the 23 experts who did an energy strategy for Europe, we didn't call him at all, he didn't do what was a shame at all, we have such experts, who did this to you, this looks like some freshman, some student, and on the 100th page, and he just handed it to us at the Parliament. Well, that's what your so-called so-called. Experts, but here's where I find it on the floor. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184055	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184056	Thank you, dear Vice President. I don't know where he'd go first, I'd like some of your allegations to be correct, so if you could say that the HNS is running the HEP even though it's not exactly true, but, well, it's nice to you in your debate, so just repeat it more times, maybe it becomes true, you wouldn't object. How do you want to achieve energy independence? If I understand correctly, building small power plants, sunny up to 10 megawatts. We'd be independent. At what price? Who would pay them, which would be all electricity if we knew what the costs were and how much that electricity cost. You said T-COM after being taken over by a stranger, there's a monopoly because we all use their services probably and mobile networks and no one else exists here. Well, it's not like that. The only thing I can tell is some concern and this is all about banging.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184057	The answer of the respected representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184058	Here's a respected colleague, you must be from the HNS when you say that, I was saying we could build a 700 gigawatt-hour solar power plant, which is the equivalent of power for 6,000 households, but I was talking about 10 solar power plants like that. So you can do that. So the price if you don't know it's $2 billion apiece, so it can be done, it's the only thing that Croatia doesn't do, and I'm asking if it'll do it for the next 20 years as we're behind. It's not us, it's you who's ruling. As far as these little to 10 megawatts are concerned, yes, that's what needs to be done. They should do it by local self-government units, they should do it by citizens, you should try harder to inform the public that they have the option of putting a solar power plant on roofs and that they will earn it. You're pushing it under the rug to get as few people as possible, but literally do it, so put it on the advertiser, ring all the bells if you need to. People will do it only people don't know, they're uneducated, you have to educate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184059	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184060	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm simply impressed by these once-in-a-lifetime theatre performances here and your expertise in everything, from medicine, finance, economics to energy, not to mention further. You're like a pitch. Safety at work at all you understand is obviously much better than those who have a really degree in all these areas and sometimes it sounds dangerous to me. So I have to warn you in some way that it is not wise to throw things into the trash this easily without this first strategy behind us, we could not withdraw without this strategic document so far EU funds for all the strategic energy projects we have had so far and also without this new future strategy, we would not be able to do the same in the future. The strategy certainly includes comprehensive and comprehensive, covering all the parts that are important for the development of energy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184061	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184062	Well, pals, normally you think this is a theater because how else could you steal all these years without entertaining people in this theater while you have another hand in their pocket? And you stole billions, you stole billions, that's you from HDZ, that's you, that's who else. So normally this is your theater, that's how you work. I just have to tell you that what I'm saying right now, if I believed in it, that someone who's a little more capable of making Croatia independent in all respects, not just energy, but it's not in your plan, you act, i.e. You're going to make Croatia a colony, it's already a colony, but you want it to stay that way. All so he can calmly rob as much as he can rob, squeeze as many citizens as he can squeeze. Here, that must not be said in this House, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184063	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184064	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, I'll try to be brief so I don't repeat everything I've said and others have said. I think the basic strategic energy objective of the Republic of Croatia must be free energy for all. From industry to citizens, for everyone. Now someone can say it's just so utopian, it's idealistic, someone can say it and the MP's gone crazy when that kind of thing says but it's not my words... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's not even the Living Wall remembered, but I'm saying it's not my words, it's the word of a genius that came from Croatia and spread light all over the world. The alternating energy, the electrical and Nikola Tesla. So those are his words. And his words are equally so that energy in an infinite amount comes to earth every day, from solar to other forms of cosmic energy, and it's only a matter of the moment when the technological development of man will allow us to convert that energy into the one we really use, which is mostly electrical energy and heat and some other. Now the question is, why isn't development going that way? Why isn't the development of technology going in that direction that really every user who uses my watch, car to this building where we're sitting, doesn't have a certain energy transformation cell that comes and falls to the ground. The reasons are different, we all know that some great people with deep and large accounts in banks that control energy business, that they're not happy with such solutions because profit would go along with such solutions, the state couldn't collect taxes and that's the problem of how you're going to measure the consumption of such energy that we all simply draw from the universe. But well, it's a little idealistic, but I think the development of technology in this area is exactly going in this direction, in the meantime we need to ensure our own country's energy security. We talked a lot about reorganising the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, increasing production, modernising infrastructure, investing in renewable energy sources, all this is very good, and this is the way to go further. But I just want to draw your attention once again and stress the importance of foreign policy in ensuring the country's energy security, so since we are highly dependent on the import of different energy sources, we must simply build strategic partnerships with those we depend on when we export or develop them in a way that we always have an alternative to countries that can be potential suppliers. Without strategic access to the foreign policy in which it is integrated and energy policy, I am afraid we will not be able to secure the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, and all EU strategic papers also point out that some smart people have been sitting there for many years. I insisted on this TAP IAP project continuously, I really think it is of strategic importance, so the Republic of Croatia will make a lot of money with it, not to say it opens up opportunities for the Croatian construction and energy industry to build gas infrastructure in the Balkan countries that will be leaned on by IAP, which are not gasified, which have no infrastructure, so not only will we earn through gas but we will also allow new jobs to our industry in the construction of gas and energy infrastructure in BiH, both in Montenegro and in other Balkan countries, these are big jobs and therefore these things should be strategically considered in cooperation with foreign policy. I also welcome a new member of the SDP, this is Vice President Radin, very nice. This, when we talk about gas, we all stand for it, I see most of us here as renewable energy sources as the future of energy, energy security and energy in the Republic of Croatia. Gas according to my deep conviction is at least harmful for the environment, for the environment and in fact the most acceptable still fossil source of energy, and therefore the Republic needs to put more emphasis on gas, and less on the coal that we know is cheaper and economic logic that refutes the thing, but when you think about long-term and strategic gas is certainly something that would be very nice to replace complete ecologicality, completely coal. To speed up the energy transformation, we heard it from the secretary of state as one of the three solutions in the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, I'm in favour of that third solution, and I think it's crucial for us, as I said on behalf of the club, the sooner we go to that perhaps expensive investment today, the sooner we'll benefit from that, or profit from such laughter, but strategic decisions in the future. And I would like to refer, but it is no longer available, to our colleague, Vucelic, who has very energetically expressed the position of the Living Wall, is a theatre fellow you are right and what I do not accept is that someone so superficially and lightly looks at the paper of one government, before that SDP's governments in which many people have invested really great intellectual energy and done the best they could, throw it on the floor, and in the meantime, or during the debate, offer no alternative solution, criticise something, and we do not offer a different solution called pulsism, empty pulsism, and I am sorry what this populism so attractively dominates and our assembly, and what unfortunately caught the ear of many of our citizens, it is so, but it is an even greater challenge for us who want to lead this country seriously, that we do with citizens, to educate them on certain, so that it is simple and it is necessary for us to do so in some way that they do so in order to make them with seriousness. The gentleman said only one proposal for a small power plant up to 1, I don't know, megawat, what he said, so if that's how I was going to suggest to him to send a parliamentary question to the economy minister and ask him what he thinks about it, maybe he'll get some arguments that will either kill what he thinks or maybe back it up, but just slap it like that and there's nothing behind it, I think it's a bad way of arguing in HS. They're also recritizing, we're in the Republic of Croatia as far as I know, he's developed and he's gotten pretty much into use in America, in the United States, I'm not sure the Americans really want to destroy their nature and their people and that they don't care about everyone, that they haven't done studies before, and the state administration didn't approve of this kind of exploitation of energy. Yes, it may not be the cleanest and happiest, but it has significantly improved the US position both on the energy market and on the political market, it has reduced its dependence on other parts of the world very turbulent, from Saudi Arabia, the Middle East, which has allowed them much more options to develop. So what the Americans were doing, that they invest in technology, in research and development of new technologies to convert energy, or any possible wealth of Earth into energy. What we don't do is just that, we don't invest enough in research and development, there's no money, I get it, but it has to be found for the future, research and development is the future and technology and new knowledge. That would be about what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184065	Thank you, Mr. Misic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184066	Thank you, Vice President. You gave your colleague Klisovic a nice exposure when you specifically said free energy. We all know who said that, Tesla, of course, didn't experience it, neither will we, and I wish we could, but there's a possibility of each other. We've got enough sun, we've got enough potential to build solar energy. It would be good to allow out of 10 kilowatts of solar power plants on the house that is enough for one family to be excluded from the energy system and to turn on, to turn off over the machine and that would be free, and that would cost about 20 thousand kuna. So they'd see how much citizens would invest in their roofs and their energy. That's one option, of course, it'll open up in 10 years much more possibilities, but it's going to go to it. Certainly it could be cheaper energy for citizens than it is today. And that's possible, but we still need to, since you mentioned your colleague, this populism that's usually in the assembly and everywhere in politics, that populism must be lower. And it must be, telling the truth and doing what should be done. [[Intruder: Time.]] It would be good for the citizens to get what they need. to put on their houses and have free. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184067	Answer, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184068	Thank you very much, Vice President. We agree, of course, Mr. Misic. What's important for me to say is that solar energy is being accused because in these panels, heavy metals are hard to break down, and then it's actually environmentally unlikely and allegedly not acceptable. But if we think back to, say, the 1960s, the computer, the computer, was as big as half of our assembly, today it's a cell phone or even smaller than that. The moment we really embrace it, that's the point I want to say, new energies including solar energy, when we channel financial resources in researching that technology, then believe that we're going to solve heavy metals in these solar panels and all those problems that make it impossible for us to use such technology today. So it's just a matter of strategic commitment. We live in a real world where not only can strategists decide what to do, of course there's business, everyone has some interest and in that outwitting things are slowing down, but let's not let them stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184069	Another replica, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184070	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, you went utopian and then with the conspiracy theory, but from your whole debate, I realized that you were most of the same with the whole strategy and then you continued, and you were next to a fellow from the Living Wall who talked a lot about the energy of the sun, but even Nikola Tesla failed to solve that storage of electricity and we still have nothing better than a battery, and then it's a big problem for big forces where and how to clean it up. Everyone forgets that when they're scattered with solar photovoltaic cells that apart from having electrical energy from them during the day, we have to somehow replace it during the night when we don't have electricity from them, so that's what's serious to solve, so we always have to have some other source. And I have to tell you one more and another strategy is written by HDZ. And the one from 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184071	Answer, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184072	Thank you very much. I don't know where you found the conspiracy theory in my presentation because I'm not a fan of that theory and I'd like to know anyway. As far as technological solutions are concerned, that Tesla has failed to solve everything, nor have we been able to solve everything today, and the storage of energy is a big problem even with renewable energy sources, when you have a lot of wind all of a sudden the energy that you have no place to store and you have to shut down the wind power plant. But the simple logic of thinking says the following. Maybe the energy won't even have to be stored. Why? Because every energy consumer, I say from a small watch, car, plane to a building or factory, will take as much energy as it needs and then shut down. Today, as far as I'm concerned in Germany, they already have technology that they don't need sunlight to generate electricity. Only for the first start-up process, and then this artificial light that shines us here is enough to boost the process of solar energy production.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184073	Thank you. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184074	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Klisovic, let's go a little bit in the idealist tone. I agree with you, you should even introduce, if energy can't be free, but let's introduce a map, a personal energy consumption card. 'Cause I'm asking again what a 500 horsepower car is going to do to someone? What does a man want with that? As an average driver, I've dropped about 60 tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere so far, and I believe you're here somewhere. That's 30,000 gallons of fuel. The real question was, how much one can use energy despite having money. In other words, even though you have a lot of money, you can't buy energy that belongs to others because in this case one spends 10 of them who don't have money. Here, it was a fundamental starting point, and so was environmental protection. So you can't spend more energy than you need because that's how you damage the environment and harm people who can't afford it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184075	Answer, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184076	Thank you very much. Now a little bit of going out of this serious topic into philosophical debates, I understand your point. Yes, man should take as much as he really needs, and not more than that, and one social equality and justice should manifest itself through it. It's all actually a manifesto of some social democracy, but let's not forget man is not a machine, man is not a computer that can calculate exactly how much energy he needs. A man is made of reason, race and emotion. Sometimes emotions need a little more to meet and make a man happy and ready for all the challenges that lie ahead of him. So some range a little bit larger there should definitely be. If we all patternize, I'm afraid the human mind will suffer, and when the human mind suffers, it's the seed of a new revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184077	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184078	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want to say the same about the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. There have been good debates today, we have heard a lot of them, we have heard those who saved HEP 2015, we have heard that snow is being done on CMROK, we have heard accounts with Bandic and, of course, a lot of good discussions that have looked at this document and established its importance for the future of this country, but especially the energy sector, because although it seems to us far from 2030, it may not be as much as in 2050, remembering many prophets who have long established that in 2000 there will be no more world, that it will be the end of the world, it has convinced us for a whole century. In 2020, we're still alive, we're here, we're operating in a variety of problems, so this story about a strategy that brings us to 2030 certainly has the basis of people who understand energy in a number of areas, not just electricity, we've heard what it says or read about gas, about oil, about energy recovery, about many of the other opportunities we have in this sector to know where we're going in 2020 and where we're coming from in 2030 and what could wait for us in 2050. It is quite correct in areas, from vision, from various scenarios, several scenarios, to challenges, to strategic objectives, and at the end of the natural financial aspect, i.e. The very value of the strategic document that needs to be invested, we see for ourselves, hundreds of billions of kuna by 2050 to make it look 30 years different than it looks to us today. 30 years ago, a strategy like this would certainly not have looked like the time we live in today, probably would have been diversifying or prophesying what would have been waiting for us in 2020, and when we remember what we've been through, we can certainly determine that we are a better society in each segment and also in a segment of energy in all areas, of course, along with many of the mistakes that have been happening in that space. The vision, it clearly stated what it wants to do in 5 clear objectives, primarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions, then increase the share of renewable energy sources, secure energy i.e. implement energy efficiency, ensure the security and quality of the system itself and, of course, the development of the internal energy market within the EU itself. Five clear goals to discuss were very rarely discussed with them, except at the level of their own individual reflections where, of course, solars on personal properties, on houses, on smaller spaces, and there was a particular debate, of course, with a view to who or what makes the greenhouse gas emissions, and what is waiting for us if I don't know, melts one Antarctica or the North Pole, and our sea grows 3 meters, which we will then. It is clear that these things are also to be discussed, but it is not always so disastrous that we ourselves want to put it together or present it. Through 9 main definitions, it is clearly defined to change in the energy sector itself. By 2030, the legal document we need to make is an integrated national energy and climate plan. And that's what we'll be interested in as politicians, but also as all those who want to take care of that sector or what's now becoming perhaps the most important part not only in the Republic but also in Europe and the whole world, the story of climate change and why we're here today and what's happening around us today when I don't know, in my underground end of the storm, it's not the ferry, what's happening in society, whether it's all ourselves, whether it's something we've met, whether it's the same way or more powerful, maybe even stronger, maybe it's just not all about today, and it's never the same to date, whether it's individual phenomena, or whether it's something we've met in history, not in this way, it's just a little different way, maybe it's just worse, that it's just not all about these climate changes, that something around us, it's changing, it's seen that we've been in the long term, especially when we're safe, but we'll be safe for us in time, and we're safe in time, and we're safe in time, and in time, and in time, we need to stay, and in time, and in time, and in time for ourselves, and in time for ourselves, and in time for ourselves, and in time to stay, and in time for ourselves. As regards the most important guidelines that can question the strategy itself, this is mentioned in certain chapters of the strategy itself which speaks for demographic development and economic development. Demographic development as an important part of the strategy itself, and what's waiting for us in 30 years with this current demographic image that can be worse in the last 30 years and have effects on the energy sector, the same as in the picture or what makes us think that demographic image is better for us and what it means for this system and the sector, means after 10 and the other 30 years. We've seen individuals who have reacted to this 80-page thing in a way that they throw it on the floor because it looks so good to them, someone's effort just to throw it on the floor, shows that they don't want to learn and that they don't want to be useful to this community except for the level of accusations, lies, lies that need to motivate citizens that maybe they're thinking about it the same way tomorrow. I don't agree with such reactions even though they are possible and allowed in this home because they don't say anything against these five clear goals and visions, and they only talk about how bad and some are good, it simply didn't contribute to me what this document should mean in the next period. I come from a local level and we're always happy when the light burns, home we're all happy when we start to burn. The moment we start, not the fire. There is no electricity in the house, we know who we call, we call HEP which is not good for us in any way, at least some people today, it's not easy and it's much harder than it used to be, it used to be much easier to go through property relations, through various ways that the electricity supply issue has been solved, and many have forgotten it, there are different rules today, but HEP is developing its network, HEP is very concerned that the entire system of the Republic is safe, we can't imagine the City of Zagreb to run out of electricity for 24 hours in one neighborhood, that in the peak load of summer and winter, when it's very warm or when it's very cold, when it includes absolutely possible all electrical appliances, there's not enough energy on the market that we can deliver, anywhere it comes from renewable energy sources that doesn't still make a big percentage in the whole story or from other sources, we don't care whether it't care whether it't even from nuclear, whether it't it't be from thermal or hydroelectric, whether it's just hydroelectric, or hydroelectric, some hydroelectric, some kind of hydroelectric, some kind of hydroelectric power, some kind of hydro power, some kind of hydro power. This government was responsible for the citizens, and when it came unlike the previous one that raised all energy by 20% already after a few months of government, we were the ones who reduced VAT to electricity supply from 25 percent to 13%, and very quickly it was forgotten, but these accounts were smaller and should be said, and that should be said. Those who raised the price say it wasn't like that, we either had to justify it in various ways. What is certainly required of the country in future time, faster activation of state property in development function or solar or other renewable energy options because we need it, we need wind power plants, no matter what we talk about here and interpreting that it's not worth anything because it's not worth anything and it's worth anything fast, and the payments go 15, 20 and 30 years, so let's just wait until your moments of profitability because everyone thinks we've already done it tomorrow, we simply have to go through good policies, through these documents to show that we know what we're doing, that it's not just that way to solve every problem and that this country in the energy sector needs even more maybe independence, even more effort and movement of many barriers that make it impossible, and this document plus everything else that needs to be brought into the future period should be made possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184079	Mr. Branko Bacic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boric, energy independence is one of the important strategic elements of each country, the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to electricity production, 62 or 63% of total energy is generated in its own space or production in its own country, so the document that goes towards encouraging the construction of energy facilities is extremely important, especially if it includes low-carbon access to providing new energy sources, including electricity. How much I have information CROTE will call a tender by the end of the year that will enable the promotion and subsidisation of production of precisely electricity in various selected sources of energy, in this sense and solar. How interesting it is for us, that's why I gave the replica, which we're in, and I know there's already a number of economic operators who are interested, and I'm even more supportive of the adoption of such a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184081	Answer, here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184082	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, here we are, I think I am personally pleased that we have passed the Law on Islands that speaks of green and smart islands, personally working on one project even though we have a problem, I am going to say this means the first photovoltaic power plant on the island to experience the problem that happened in 2013. By reducing tariffs in terms of entering the network and paying off potential incentives for energy delivery, 2013 The new tariffs have made it a little difficult to get into the network of many who, by then, wanted to build the first photovoltaic power plants, and these projects have at one point become slightly invaluable. They started to be more profitable, but for long periods of time, and that's what we're currently fighting with, and so I pray or believe that this country has the strength to activate the additional surfaces it has, which would be the function of having the person who's already taken some space or land or particles and getting from the state a certain opportunity to increase the power it can deliver without being costing it. much since he was buying land that was more unfavourable then [[Intruder: Time]] It's today. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184083	Time, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184084	Thank you very much. In your debate, you mentioned energy infrastructure, very interesting that no one has touched Plinarro or JANAF today, or HEP in its 3 segments of production, sales and transport, because nothing falls out of the air, we all forget that until 10-11. The gas from the North Adriatic did not come to Croatian consumers from the North Adriatic but through Italy and Slovenia, if Slovenia was not covered with gas imports for its market, so we forget all this today. So, in order to be able to talk about an energy strategy, then first, we have to make a political decision, which, as far as electricity is concerned, which, as far as the gas is concerned, is, after all, the vast research, the fields a few years ago, so let's remember the company of Adrie, then the South Stream, and so on and so on, so every time it carries its own, but it's important that the government has a clear strategy and that it has a infrastructure to transfer that energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184085	Answer Mr. Bačić, please, Boric
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184086	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Shuker, I say we approach all of this easily because as long as we shine, we're all satisfied and we don't see any concerns about it, and until the moment the water comes into the house, as it goes, I don't know the water from that house etc., we don't run too much worry and most of it seems simple to build systems is not as simple and the state is certain in these last 30 years. has made efforts in all these segments. When an INA announces that it will invest, I don't know, 4 billion kunas in modernising a refinery in our, in my neighborhood, it goes beyond that as if it's actually a simple situation, a very simple operation and not too much, and it could have been at least twice as much, so it happened with the decommissioning of the pipelines that went when the highways were built, when the hubs were built, when the warehouses were built, and all I say is pretty easy to experience from people who basically did nothing in life on these issues ever make any decisions at local, or regional, except here at the state level in the assembly, and mostly, [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184087	Time, thank you, thank you, but now it's the turn of the HNS representative club final Mr. Stjepan Curaj, here you go, Mr. Churay. Please, come on, have a... Here, don't, let go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184088	I couldn't agree more seriously, maybe start this piece of paper, throw around then I guess it'll mean that I'm right and that what I'm saying is more effective and it's going through the old one who's louder that's probably right, so then we should all start a derat here too, so measure to the decibels who yell the most that's gonna be the most right or who makes the biggest spectacle so, so our citizens are going to make me here on facebook see it as well, fight for our interests, these are all thieves, they all don't know, I'm the only one who's good, I'm the only one who cares about the little man, you're all a disaster. Many times seen, so that I can say such a legitimate technique of getting someone a rating, short-term if history serves me well or points of political, whatever you say, but well, Valda will succeed and somewhere to know from the theatre and the content of what's being said, and the content here is something that I don't really think I've heard any alternatives, I've heard again, as in everything, a list of good wishes, well-meaning, what we want, how we fight for our citizens, how we fight for the environment, how something should be better, so we can always do better and there we can think I agree and the best can always better. So there's absolutely no point in talking about it. We have heard here as one of the main strategic goals of the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, which is defined by this strategy, which is greater energy efficiency, something that this government is doing record-based good, so when we talk about rebuilding the energy building, which is public, which is multi-citizen, we have practically used all the resources that have been given to us and are thinking smartly and in advance, and then we can hear it even, until I was unfortunately with other commitments. that we will not take the European funds for the restoration of family homes as a fam, that as we have said we do not need these money, and it is true that the competition goes to the programme that passed the public debate and should be adopted in the Government, which will simplify the maximum and reach the goal, which is that our citizens get subsidies for energy restoration of their family houses, point, and the money provided for by the European funds will be transferred to multiple buildings that go quite well in view of the complexity and the ability to pay when one building of 135, 50 apartments can certainly finance from their reserves the production of the project, can finance the production of the certificate, can finance written reports, can finance and pre-finance certain things and credit debt, all of which we need to impose on family houses with 2-3 members not knowing as much as they are written in European projects, except that this part of which we are not concerned, we all of which we are going to be able to make a very smart decision, so that we are going to do so that we are able to do a lot of the best, so that we are able to get to do something. Gas, I can't get everything that's been said here, of course it's hard for me, but my colleague Klisovic said that, we haven't heard any concrete changes, amendments, I think you can make an amendment to this, there's no secretary here now, but I believe that this strategy can be submitted to the amendment, so let's have all those smart heads here who have been so nice to say what's wrong or wrong, let them take the amendment to something that's been done by a series of experts. I'm not saying that maybe something isn't, it couldn't be any different, but let's see, let's explain it, put it on paper, throw God's grades like this, save it, but that's what we heard. And in conclusion, solarians, the deadline for the return on investment for photovoltaic power plants is 20 years, for comparison only, hydropower plants 9, not because I invented it, but because I studied it and our data. So we want to impose more expensive power on people, that would be an epilogue of someone's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184089	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Ivan Lovrinović's turn to end on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and to change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I have listened carefully to today's debates and in the name of the Party we change Croatia I want to point out what we think we should do, and it is about the following, so far, first of all, we have not had a strategy in the energy sector, but it has existed, it has acted in a way that businesses in the wind power segment have been developing and there is, let's say, the interests of certain groups in the Republic, and the result is that electricity prices had to be collected in the Republic before, remember 3-4. 30 percent. Why? Because it had to be guaranteed a certain price per kilowatt to investors, it was all by the wave of private investors who had previously known the good terrain, the situation, some worked at HEP, therefore they had excellent information. For years, we're going to have to pay these companies that have wind power plants, so especially people who have low incomes, pay off means good profits for them. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia will not become less dependent on energy, it becomes even more energy-dependent, I repeat, in the 1990s, we met 80% of the gas, today 40, today, we produced about 60% of the oil, today about 20%, therefore we advocate in changing Croatia to start HEP and at the state level to start building at least two hydropower plants because I remind you that in this Republic of 30g. No hydropower plant was built except for the Lesce Power Plant, for which project documentation and everything else was made in the former Yugoslavia. We can make the hydropower plant with at least 90% of the domestic substance from, of the turbines, everything else. Therefore, this is all about the economy of bargaining, about the commercial smuggling economy that the Republic of Croatia separates into free factors, let's say, we have completely, we are going towards full energy dependence, which is the key last line of defence for Croatia's electricity industry, and so you see two attempts to destabilize and sell HEP to private investors cheaply. The first was during Ivan Vrdoljak, the second during Martina Dalic, the third is now on stage, the respected citizens I want to warn you, but in this assembly someone is still struggling with the arguments, what is this about? Hydropower plant Plat near Dubrovnik has not worked for over a year and by the calculations of experts a billion kuna of income for HEP in 2019 has been lost. Furthermore, last year the HEP's compensation for so-called so-called "hep" was reduced. The network, the transmission of electricity across the power lines totaling about 300 million kuna, has now only started when everyone settled down to invest in, in the Korlat wind power plant, will invest 500 million kuna, forced him to invest in LNG terminals in Krk, so you can see that it is financially preparing to weaken it, so that it can then be taken over. We are in Change Croatia in favour, and we are going to fight that all the hydroelectric reservoirs are owned exclusively by the state, we are going to look for support here in the assembly, because these teams that have run the Republic, they've all sold everything alive, there's no need to name individual cases, and when you look at a little who will defend such HEP as it is Croatian, so it's a team there, so let's say it's one of the strongest resistances of this marginal party HNS, they're amazing, there are terrible managers, I haven't seen that the small party that managed to rip it out well, they run JANAF, they... Well, it's the unseen people of mine I can't come to myself with what it's all about, the Republic of Croatia will only be so dear citizens fail, so head upstairs and when the next elections are respected citizens, I especially address you who think you are defiantly defiant when you don't go to elections twice, when you don't go to elections and this and these people, as you would say, these people who are bastards, who thus led the Republic, so they, they clap to you, they clap to you and, and they pray to God that you never go to elections because they think so, Government until the day of judgment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the story of an energy strategy will only be opened once these people are removed from power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184091	Now it is Mr. Josko Klisovic's turn to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, also final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184092	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Once again, on behalf of the SDP Club, we cannot achieve energy independence in isolation, and all of our partnerships that we need to achieve with countries that are rich in energy and suppliers of energy, from Middle Eastern countries of Algeria, are good and commendable to Russia or Azerbaijan, but we will achieve our interests with EU members within the EU by defining common policies. What is important also to emphasise, energy policy is an important policy and exceeds the mandate of any government, and in this context should have the continuity of energy strategy and policy, of course, so that all those with good ideas now is the time to and say it would be built into this current strategy, and the new government, when it comes one day just needs to take a step further, not start an abo, but go a step further, build on what we have created together and coordinate with the moment in which this new government will bring such a strategy. Our infrastructure in this country is well built in a country whose flag we have here today highlighted by obviously some of the country's lovers, but that state was also not immune to corruption in the energy sector. The energy sector is turning big money, it is extremely attractive for organised crime and corruption. What we certainly will not forgive to any government is precisely to enable corruption or crime in the energy sector. Many today have also talked about certain cases where there are indications that such a thing is done, since money is large, and since energy is also part of the country's national security, where I said that any deterioration of the energy image of the Republic of Croatia affects our economy, it also affects critical national infrastructure, affects every citizen, every household of this country, and thus the country as a whole. Therefore, any violation of the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia is also a violation of the country's national security. Every crime in this important strategic sector is a violation of the country's national security, so it's no longer a pit on some small project, it's a pit, and I've put national security at risk, there's no need for all of us to be aware of that, and the people who are in power and those who are on the opposition, in opposition, and tomorrow they'll come to power, no playing with national security, and corruption and crime, we'll have to contain it together in this country because it's something that only destroys the tissues of our society and our country, that building tissue. Too much to tolerate, too many people are networked into various crime-related stakeholders, until we clean it up, there's no country ahead either. With all our efforts for great sovereignty, to make decisions in Zagreb, which I support, all of them, they would say in Bosnia for free if we don't solve criminals in our ranks, starting with politics and politicians, continuing further and beyond that because in the state of politics it can't happen to be the profession that citizens most demonise, which they consider to be the most criminal profession that attracts the most criminals, which is a profession and these are people who are chosen to lead society and make decisions on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic. Therefore, dear fellow MPs and advocates, we have this responsibility and therefore, let us not stop at such a thing, announce an open war on everyone in corruption, who deals with corruption and organised crime, especially if it endangers national interests, if it interferes with energy, it certainly does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184093	And finally, Mr. Miro Bulj will speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please welcome Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184094	Thank you very much. Energy development of the Republic of Croatia is very important and this is the strategic most important energy something with what we have in the Republic of Croatia, the state counts and, the state's power is in the production of energy, less dependence when the Republic of Croatia is an independent state, and when each family is independent of energy in this way we ensure the stability of the state, of course, and the competitiveness of the state. However, Andrej Plenkovic has been saying for months that the EU is trying, and so this government is seeking to fight for green energy, against CO2, against means that everything will be done to protect this part of our ecosystem, our air, that it is also described here in this strategy, however, the fact that fossil fuels are still being mentioned, so I said and this is very much what fossil fuels are being forced to do even though we lost that energy segment, we lost it through the national issue i.e. The sale of our INA, the sale, the takeover of the enemy with the help of the ruling SDP, which is through white nights and Slavko Linic to the final Eve Sanader, gave this to the INA, our energy company that is very important, we even had a promise before, three years ago. That for this 2 and something, 2. and a few months, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will buy the INA by selling the shares of HEP, nor has INA been redeemed, thank God, the shares of HEP have not been sold, but I expect that the promise will be fulfilled before, before Christmas, i.e. Christmas return of INA to our hands. Personally, when we look at mainly this part of the production of solar energy, I said that in Europe 5%, in the EU 5% is produced from solar energy, and in the Republic of Croatia 0.34%, which means that wind power plants are forced, wind power plants, that they are in the national interest, that this is the property of the Croatian state, that it is the property of Croatian entrepreneurs, that it does not suck out billions of dollars of subsidies from the Government of Zoran Milanovic at the last meeting of the Government i.e. Now the HDZ coalition partner, HNS Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, means a billion and a half kuna annually from our pockets subsidies go to foreigners, while at the same time MOST gave the Microsolar Act di to ensure family independence, energy family, of course other institutions. The Republic of Croatia is one of the most sunny countries in the EU, 0.34% is produced from solar energy, not only when we talk about the Republic of Croatia, but also about Dalmatia, we're talking about, my colleague Misic mentioned earlier, spoke about Slavonia, meaning we're talking about the entire Republic of Croatia, each part of which must be produced in the Republic of Solara until the roofing, and it's mainly questionable here how to solve, how, therefore, people who are socially endangered are not being solved. People who don't have money for heating, the state pays about, like, 250 million kuna plus local self-government plus the regional administration, the county, there goes for billions of kuna, for billions of kuna, there can be about 10,000 microsolars per 10,000 households, and in that year you solved those people, they're energy independent of those families. We gave this law, unfortunately this law was not passed, it tried some kind of, the government made some kind of hybrid during the debate, but it absolutely did not settle for our potential, and that is the sun, very little doing it, because this would not, this would be a demographic measure, people would stay in those areas, but if they had energy mainly in rural areas, here you are and representative i.e. from the national minority, I don't know why you don't take it, but if you're Mr. Horvat's secretary that in these areas, too, the sun's energy is no longer used, and not always here, every morning from your club president Mr. Pupovac that there's no electrification in these areas, here's the sun's energy of the sea, and in these areas, so we absolutely gave the law, which is why it wasn't adopted, it wasn't because of the lobby that suits foreign investors for wind power plants di not one part of it's not ours, and in that way from my area, I'm going to say now to China that they were scared, but when they were scared, but if Dalmatia turned landscapes are threatened, so at least that it's not at the expense of Croatian citizens who know who know who, here thank you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184095	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on tradition when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184096	Proposal for a Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. The Proposer is the Government, the debate is closed. On the basis of Article 5(3), I am voting on the draft Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia's Energy Strategy by 2030, in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, with a view to 2050. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 79 for, 15 abstentions and 10 against the adopted Energy Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. Dear MPs and MPs, before we move to the debate on the first item of today's agenda, I suggest that on the basis of Article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall conduct a joint discussion on the second and third points of today's agenda, which shall be the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2018 and the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of achievement of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2019. Does anyone mind? If there isn't, then I'm saying that we're going to have a united debate on those two points and now we're going to move on to the first point. Here you go, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184098	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall for a break on the basis of Article. 248, how can I explain the break? Can I explain the request?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184099	We haven't crossed it yet, I don't know what the break request is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184100	Refers to non-involvement in the agenda of the Assembly on the 2016 HANFA Report [[Adversity President: Col. Lovrinović.]] Go ahead. [[Intruder president: colleague Lovrinović, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184101	So you can't ask for a break for something like that but you can only take a break on the agenda point to consult the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184102	This morning a decision was made to combine two points of the agenda and those two points were: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2018 and - half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2019. The applicant shall be the Croatian National Bank based on Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered an opinion to all of you. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here's Mr. Governor of the CNB, Borisa Vujcic, is with us today, and he'll give us some preliminary information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184103	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and allow me to present, in accordance with the legal obligation, the information you have received. In the first part of the exhibition, as always, I will look at the most important macroeconomic trends, and then talk about the activities of the CNB. However, before describing domestic economic movements, let me briefly refer to events in an international environment that, for a small, open economy like Croatia, represent a framework in which it works. The slowdown in global economic growth that began in the previous year continued in the first half of 2019 with highlighted negative risks in the international environment and growing uncertainty in the financial markets. When it comes to the euro area, the deterioration of economic activity, although largely widespread, is part of a reflection of unfavourable developments in the German economy, or problems in the export-oriented processing sector, by weakening foreign demand. In particular, as you probably know, the automotive industry that is currently in the restructuring process has been affected, especially given the alternatives to the ability of car production to electricity and hydrogen, so the question in which demand will develop over the next medium term in the sector. At the same time, other important foreign trade partners in Croatia such as Italy, Slovenia and Austria have seen a slowdown in growth. In the domestic economy, the annual rate of real growth was 3.1%, which is now in line with some average of 5 years, about 3% of GDP growth is moving, which was somewhat strengthening compared to the previous half-year, but as I say, that's where the growth rate is already said at 5 years we're where it's moving between, say, 2.6 and 3.2%. This contributed most to household consumption as well as to gross fixed capital investments. Personal consumption was supported by favourable labour market movements and further redistribution of households in conditions of historically highest levels of consumer optimism. Furthermore, the growth in capital investment was strong as a result of the strengthening of state investment and of the better withdrawal of funds from the EU Funds. The positive contribution of growth was also given by state consumption and continued growth in exports. At the same time, strong domestic demand growth has also resulted in strong import growth. Movements on the labour market were still favourable, although somewhat less intense. Employment continued to grow at similar rates of 2.2%, which contributed mostly to the activities of construction, tourism and business services. At the same time, unemployment continued to decrease, although somewhat slower, so the seasonally adjusted administrative unemployment rate was 8% in the first term. Salaries continued to grow, also slightly slower, with the average nominal gross earnings being 3.8% higher than in the same period of the previous year. In principle, what happened with the economy is that after, say, 3.5 years where GDP growth was primarily driven by post-EU export growth, primarily because growth in EU entry allowed small and medium-sized Croatian businesses to become exporters, a large part of the non-exporting companies became exporters after EU entry. In 2019 we came to a situation where the loud growth driver became a personal consumption and growth investment based, primarily on the engagement of funds from the structural funds of RU. As regards price developments, basic inflation rose slightly from 1% to 1.1%, which was mainly due to overdoing the prices of certain food raw materials on the world market at domestic prices of processed food products. It is primarily milk and pork, as in the end line and now primarily because of the lack of pork in the Chinese market prices increase due to the growth of food raw materials primarily pork. Domestic inflationary pressures in terms of speeding up domestic demand and labour cost growth have only been reduced to lower prices. The total consumer price inflation slowed to 0.6% where inflation slowed to 0.2% due to a decrease in VAT rates to some food and pharmaceutical products. The effect of reducing or transferring VAT reductions on the mentioned products was significant but incomplete. Based on a very detailed analysis, the overall direct effect of VAT reduction was estimated to be around -0.6% of points in the period from December 2018, of which -0.5% of points were related to food products and the rest to pharmaceutical products. The detailed analysis shows that the lower VAT rate on food products covered by the VAT reduction was about 50%, with the main transmission being achieved at the beginning of 2019. The analysis also showed that poetinils and certain food products which were not subject to tax changes, but to a significantly lower extent, consumer price inflation began to speed up slightly to 0.6% year-on-year, most affected by an increase in the annual rate of energy prices, oil derivatives and gas, and processed food products. In the first half of 2019, the balance on the current and capital account of the balance of payments deteriorated due to further deepening of the lack of trade in goods with abroad, the conditions of intensifying economic activity and the strong growth of domestic demand. In addition, although to a lesser extent, the deficit in the primary income account has increased due to higher income from domestic companies owned by non-residents and smaller profits from foreign resident-owned enterprises, unfavourable movements are only partially mitigated by the improvement of balances on secondary income and capital transactions due to the noticeable intensification of the use of EU funds, as I have already mentioned. At the same time, the majority of the net inflow of capital in the financial account concerned the growth of net debt liabilities, mostly credit institutions. In order to support economic growth, the CNB continued to be very expansional in monetary policy to support an extremely high level of liquidity while maintaining the kuna rate according to the EUR stable. During the first half of 2019 The CNB bought a net of EUR 633 million, creating nearly 5 billion of primary money. In early February, the CNB purchased a total of EUR 450 million from the commercial banks after selling EUR 463.4 million to the Ministry of Finance on the same day to refinance a part of the vault records of EUR 1.5 billion with a maturity of 455 days. Later, after issuing a 10-year euro bond in the international market in mid-June, the CNB purchased EUR 660 million from the finance ministry, adding to an extremely high structural surplus of liquidity. In terms of such high liquidity, the bank was not interested in short-term kuna assets offered through regular weekly operations. Interest rates on bank loans continued to decrease, and plasma growth grew. At the end of June 2019, the annual growth of total placements to domestic sectors excluding the country slowed to 3.6%, resulting in a decrease in the placement of enterprises that showed a decline of -1% at year level, resulting in the activation of state guarantees for shipbuilding sites and the reduction of claims from Agrokor Group related to the operational implementation of the settlement. If the one-time effects mentioned are excluded, employees slowed down their annual growth, making the most of it a reduction in credit for large companies. At the same time, population placements increased by 6.7% incentivise to the greatest extent the growth of cash non-intentional loans. In order to mitigate the risks associated with the approval of such loans, the CNB issued a recommendation in February 2019 on the handling of non-permanent loans to consumers. For now, I would remind the banks that we are only recommending more careful conditions for granting cash credits, especially those with longer maturity, and consumers with discretion in borrowing, but also to closely monitor the effects of the recommendation. If cash non-intentional loans are observed, their annual growth has been strongly accelerated until recommendations have been adopted after which they have begun to decrease. For example, the annual growth rate of non-intentional cash loans was 12.9% at the time of adoption... to go down 0.7% of points immediately afterwards. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Short on governance of the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia and the achieved financial outcome, international reserves continue to increase further, and at the end of the first half of 2019 were 14% higher compared to the end of 2018, while the net international reserves increased by 5.7%. The growth of international reserves was influenced by the purchase of foreign exchanges from banks that I mentioned, in order to prevent the appreciation pressures that are continuously relatively strong and the purchase by the Ministry of Finance from a higher level of repo transactions, and the inflow of foreign exchanges at the expense of the Ministry of Finance. This would also refer to the financial result of reserve management, the overall European portfolio achieved a return rate of 0.31% at year-on-year despite the fact that more than half of Europe's Member States' national securities had a negative contribution. The return rate for the entire dollar portfolio of international reserves managed by the CNB was 2.57%, which is of course due to the fact that on the American market... maintains significantly more rates than is the case in the Eurozone. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main objective, which is liquidity and security in managing international reserves, has been successfully met. What was going on in the bank system? In short, further growth in assets and profitability of banks has been reported, system capitalisation remains high, with the total capital rate almost 23%, credit risk exposure quality continued to improve, and the share of non-income loans dropped to 7.3%. The largest impact on the increase in total assets was on the growth of investment in securities, and then credit activity is directed towards the population, so these are not collateralised or what we call cash loans and the impact of regulatory changes in the accounting of rentals. The profitability growth was achieved thanks to higher non-income revenues and then lower credit risk costs, as the share of non-income payments decreased. With the recovery of profits in the first half of 2019, profitability indicators increased and the return on assets and capital was 1.9% and 11.3% respectively. I would like to conclude my presentation with a brief look at fiscal developments as well. In the first half of 2019, mostly favourable movements in public finances continued. During that period, the surplus of the general government was achieved according to the ESA 2010 methodology of the 200 million kuna, such budgetary achievements resulting from the noticeable annual growth of budget revenues of 7.5%, as well as expenditure growth of 7.2%. The debt of the general government at the end of June 2019 amounted to around 298 billion kuna or about 12 billion kuna more than at the end of 2018. The increase shall primarily take precedence over the financing of part of the liabilities on foreign securities which were due in the second half of 2019. I would conclude this exposure to the finding that this period has been marked by positive economic developments which have become too high to the level of consumer optimism, and particularly by the continuation of favourable labour market movements, means employment growth, unemployment decline, wage growth, which has contributed to the growth of personal consumption as the main generator of GDP growth. However, the positive effects of EU entry on exports are gradually weak, as we expected, because, as with other countries, they are the strongest in the first few years after they enter the EU and the balance of payments balance balance balance balance balance balances down slowly. The CNB continues to conduct a very expansional monetary policy and maintains a very high liquidity of the domestic financial market, while maintaining the ever-sustaining stability of the exchange rate which contributes to the continuation of favourable funding conditions, and the interest rates on all loans and the population and businesses and states have fallen to the historical lowest levels. International reserves are at the historic highest level on the other side and they are in some way the other side of the medals are very high liquidity. The structural surplus of liquidity in the Croatian economy is approximately the structural surplus of liquidity in the euro area created by the European Central Bank to other instruments at the moment. In some ways, we conduct contitating or purchasing financial assets, but unlike the European Central Bank, which makes it a purchase of primarily securities, we do so by buying out foreign exchanges and thus increasing international reserves at around 20 billion euros at this point among the highest in the world as a percentage of GDP. Total domestic placements include sustainable growth, and as I said interest rates are falling while the resilience of the high-level banking system is currently being implemented so-called. AQR checks the quality of active Croatian banks as a prerequisite for entering close cooperation with the European Central Bank, the Banking Union, and then also in the euro area, and we are sure that it will confirm that too. However, as I always stress to accelerate the potential growth of GDP by speeding up convergence, what needs to be done further is primarily structural reforms in those areas marked as those in which structural weaknesses in the economy continue to exist. In the future, this is the main source of growth, of potential GDP growth, with of course the prudential and monetary and fiscal policy that they must maintain during that period of stability of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184104	Thank you, too. As usual, a few replicas. The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184105	Thank you very much. Governor, tell me if the generator of growth, you didn't mention GDP 6.6% of the foreign information of our citizens, which is on the increase all the time, means that people are moving out, sending out money, that's what you published, so is that the growth generator? Of course, I wish you'd brought us here, did you perhaps take away the permission of the banks which means the PR salary to lobby at the Constitutional Court, you've given us perhaps to inform us that you've taken away the work of the team that is mocking our institutions, the Constitutional Court, the Croatian National Bank, because you've acted like this, you've made any kind of decision about it, except you've expressed your resentment, you've taken some measures as an example to other banks that can't act in the Republic of Croatia as if they're, I don't know, I don't know, or I don't know whose, here't know what you've taken, and how much it's affected the increase in GDP, means moving our people who send money through the documents to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184106	Answer, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184107	Thank you very much for your questions. As far as our people working abroad are concerned, they have always been a significant part of the capital account inflow and the current balance of payments account. At this point it is growing, because there are more people working abroad, but it is not a significant generator of GDP growth itself, it has more impact on the balance of payments account. And in that balance of payments account, as you know, we have a surplus, so the sum of the current account and the balance of payments are in the surplus. About if you look at the inflows by de facto transactions that come from abroad, and primarily from our workers abroad, they covered our interest expenses, right. At this point, our interest costs are shrinking because interest rates are falling on everything we refinance, and this is growing, and it primarily contributes to this surplus, less the GDP growth rate itself, somewhat because of the same thing that enters personal consumption, however, it is not the main generator. The main generator is primarily wage growth and high consumer optimism growth, so people spend a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184108	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184109	As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184110	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184111	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184112	Another replica, Mr. Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184113	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vujčić. In your presentation we could hear a lot of subjective information from the Croatian National Bank, but the public is interested in one serious thing that happened recently, the public is interested in when the results of the investigation of the RBA bank will be. So we saw one attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and the public is interested in when the results of the investigation will be to say a specific day, also to say what are the possible sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184114	Answer, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184115	As far as the investigation is concerned, investigations as such are in principle conducted by the DORH, not the Croatian National Bank. The Croatian National Bank conducts supervision of the operations of banks, we have launched this surveillance, we cannot talk about this surveillance, of course, because of the Law, but I can say that at the end of this surveillance is ours. What I would say, has already happened most importantly, is that, during the very surveillance after my conversation with the Bank's administration, the president of the bank's administration has resigned, realizing what happened and that responsibility. After he finishes surveillance, we have available and breaking provisions, so this will be clearer after I've completed the surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184116	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So maybe you have data in absolute amount, I'm interested in this part of cash non-intentional loans at the end of the year, he gave about 53-54 billion kuna, which is the absolute amount, maybe their MPL, because it was about 7-8%, then about 3-4 billion kuna of MPL, and what is the coverage of these cash non-intentional loans, since they are actually this part, you show in your report, that they actually generate the largest growth, somewhere at 12%, so I am quite interested at the end of the year even though they are not in this part, he has already given what level it is, what is that part of the MPL, and how much is the coverage of these loans since they are significant, important and some of the latest data if you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184118	Mr. Wolf's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184119	As far as I'm concerned... So, as far as the MPL itself is concerned, they're like I said starting to fall after our recommendation, they're bad, so credits are 4.6%, which means they're not high, but the problem is that when you have high growth, which I guess you know, when you have relatively high growth, then the average age of these loans is low, and then, then the bad credits are lower because of that. When they slow down, or when there's a fall, or there's a recession, they grow. That is why we warn in advance that this could happen in the future, although I say, these loans are healthy for now. The 4.6 is a small delinquency to say so, and the coverage is about 40% so far, which for such a level is quite, quite adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184120	Thank you. The next line is Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184121	Thank you very much, Mr. Governor. So I would also refer to these loans, in fact you warned in January last year about the danger, let's say there's a future and now you've explained it well, but from what you've just said to your fellow Lalovec that there's actually a real danger that even soon the country might be affected by some form of crisis or recession, and now other than that coverage and percentage of credit, how many citizens, according to one of your estimates could be hit by such credits, because we know that the banks actually gave them some guarantees, so you could just take out a loan in the bank, and you can still still, given that the low interest rates, capital has enough, without some guarantees a little stronger, and in fact how much that could endanger our citizens, as we had a Swiss franc of your own time, but let's say that the threat of the citizens can be the same thing and how dangerous it is, whether in that way, in fact, in fact, in fact, or in fact, in fact, in fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184122	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184123	So let's say that if we compare it to the Swiss franc, the situation is very different, as you said yourself, in the sense that this is primarily about loans that are in kuna and fixed interest rates. So we have no exchange rate risk, no interest risk. There we had a primarily exchange rate risk, but if it comes to, say, recession, if part of the people lose their jobs, it will be difficult for them to serve or impossible those loans. It's a risk to them on one side, but it's also for banks because they're unliterated they don't have any collateral, they don't have an apartment, a house, anything behind it. Therefore, if citizens are not at the moment when they lose a job in a position to service it, the loan practically has to be written off by the bank. What was happening here, what we noticed was that it was bad and that we reacted is that we noticed that because of the laws that were passed in the assembly about the execution of the part of the salary, the restrictions were part of the citizens had lost their credit ability. what the banks were doing, just a second to explain, what the banks were doing then they would give part of the credit that goes into credit as a normal loan, and they would additionally give it a non-cash, so they pulled it out for 12 years, say, and so they were arbitration between the laws. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To prevent that, we've come up with that recommendation that banks can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184124	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184125	Dear Governor, I have one simple question, you will know the answer. How can you get out of ERM II?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184126	From the ERM II course mechanism, it is not intended to go out is it not something which, in principle, is something that is the waiting room for entry into the euro area, but you can not meet the conditions of the exchange rate mechanism. In other words, this course mechanism requires you to hold a course in a very narrow range around the EUR, unfixed, means very similar to what we now have, let's say it's some plus/minus 2.5 or 5% plus/minus 2 25%. So you can't meet the conditions of the exchange rate mechanism and if you don't meet them, you can't enter the euro zone, but that's not the mechanism you're entering today, you're going out tomorrow. We can't please, but no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184127	Thank you. No discussion of this kind. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184128	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, you mentioned the movement of Bosnian and foreign exchange companies and the reports that we had had the opportunity to read clearly that, for example, non-exporters were actually due in foreign exchanges or loans and that they were taking more kuna loans. At the same time, exporters were taking more foreign exchanges, which was actually particularly interesting in 2016 here since they were constantly talking about how the course is too high, how it is not attractive, etc., so please explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184129	I think it's the trends...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184130	Mr. Governor, you may speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184131	... ahexcuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184132	No, you can't go ahead, but I have to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184133	It's true, it's trends and I think they're good. Why? Because those who have natural security from the hedg exchange risk are just exporters to them are more logical to have foreign exchange loans. Those who don't have that natural hedg for them are better off having kuna loans. And that's something I think is very good and also citizens, taking more kuna loans now are kuna loans over 5% of all loans to citizens, which is good again because citizens don't have exchange risk insurance except they don't have income abroad, so it makes them less vulnerable to any exchange rate shocks. Although I do not believe that there will be exchange rate shocks to the introduction of the EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184134	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184135	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, one question first is whether it is possible for the CNB to deliver this report to us within 2-2.5 months that we can discuss it within 3.5-4 months, not discuss the data that is still slowly pasting. And the other thing I think is that here in this high house, and you and the finance minister should explain a little bit of the growth structure of GDP. So let's say what I know is that this last year by 2.2 percentage points has raised it by consumption, but by 2 percentage points it has been reduced by increased imports and then it clearly points to something else, which is the structure of the Croatian economy that cannot produce what Croatian citizens and Croatian economies are looking for. I think it's simply one common, common language that needs to come here to the assembly, and then a lot of things will go away, and not throw themselves away because when we say that spending has increased GDP growth, but it's also reduced by increased imports. And actually the neutral story about this is And the exports I'm afraid to be reduced. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184136	Mr. Wolf's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184137	First, we can send in any period that we agree on, only given the short period of time, the data will be those that are, so how much DZS needs to produce, and we will have the data, so if we agree to come in two months, then it will be with those data that are available by then and we can discuss it, but I personally prefer to discuss it more personally with you in the same way as the more recent data, not the data from 6 or 12 months ago. So, I'd love to, but we just need to figure out exactly what period. As far as this second question is concerned, I'm not gonna make it in 30 seconds, but that's a good question. The structure of the economy is exactly what in some ways determines growth and the quality of growth in the economy. This is changing for us at this point, and the truth is that as the personal consumption that raises on the one hand GDP growth, on the other hand rises and imports grow, which reduces and I completely agree. That it somehow balances the whole story on the other hand. What in the future will be the main factor in growth will be investment and more should be discussed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184138	Thank you very much. We'll have plenty of opportunities to talk. I have an impression. Now, on behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Miro Bulj to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184139	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the governor and his associates, the secretary of the ministry, here's a good thing to discuss here on topics i.e. about the inaction of the CNB, so I will also make certain arguments, of course, that the triba argues that you too have not been denied, unfortunately, that I have not received a denial of whether or not you have reached a solution here or a decision on the bank that requested the PR agency to influence the Constitutional Court, that you would mock the institutions of the Republic, and perhaps have influenced the parliamentary representatives, the government, the government, perhaps they have a PR agency, and probably have if they influence it, I don't know when we see what it was all brought to, when we see that the savings of credit cooperative behaviour of Raiffeisen to our people who are interest, they can't do it in Austria for sure which member of the EU is from where they come from, this is here on the island of Rab, only here, but mainly behaves like nowhere, and 2/3 of us have brought this bill of nigility, which may be even greater than 2/3. 130 and some of all the present representatives, even the Constitution has not been adopted as much as you hold to the people's vote and how much you would have to show yourself as a national bank there as an instrument, an element of the illegality of these loans that will never repay our citizens, but literally their children are being killed, their children, I, so simply the system doesn't work. If it's the CNB then it's not just enough to honor the governor to deal with the masterchef, it's obviously just you that's the story here. So this is about life's problems. So it's about life problems, we've had a couple of times, a couple of times threatened stability of the Republic of Croatia. So you know that 10 billion from yours, I don't know from whose mouth it's been said, 10 billion kuna at one point, 10 billion kuna Agrokor used a bond without a cover, so he paid, it's a coup on the state's monetary system. It's a good thing the state didn't break down who was running it and the National Bank. Whose bank is this? Privately, a river would be a heavy roar that's said of this one in my lower end of the synergy for this thing. So I speak straight layman, you're an expert, I speak layman. So I literally had to file a criminal report against that inconclusive stability council financially, three years ago, two I don't know when that was Agrokor. So threatened financial stability, that's inaction. It seems to me in 2012, 2013, I don't know if you were governor back then, but you were in that mold, you were mostly in that circle. So here's the question when we bring in these reports we expect as parliamentary representatives for what you've taken. I consider myself a parliamentary representative of what the bank did that said the PR was in charge. held a tender for the PR agency to influence the Constitutional Court. I don't think they're good messages, I'm telling you as a representative as governor of the CNB. Of course it's a huge problem we see also appears in the public about the value of interest i.e. loans granted in EUR. So I don't know when those loans started being Franak so-called. The Swiss, when they started and the directorate was established, the agency that would protect consumers and give her what she does otherwise? Is there when it is brought into this situation when we see that even now our courts this after citizens protest, after the citizens' activities means you would be the ones who would stop the robbery of Croatian people by banks, Croatian citizens.../incomprehensible/... because it is a huge potential and resources. If someone milks citizens out of their pockets illegally 20 billion kuna in the short term on loans to some kind of illegal, it is a blow to Croatia, it is an aggression on Croatia, on Croatian citizens. Well, it's not that, it's a serious matter, and you as governor, as legitimate means a representative of the CNB, you have to protect this one. Here's the note I mentioned, you mentioned means financial stability of this stability. when we talk about stability, however, it has often appeared recently since this is about the report as if the EUR-o will help, you are, you.../incomprehensible/... However, many countries in our environment that are much more developed than we are also in the euro zone of the Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark, I do not know that I am not counting which are in front of us on a number of issues, unfortunately we have argued that everything is correct for us to be in front of them by all we have. But they don't fly, they don't crash that much into the EURo. What are the reasons why we're going so crazy, we have to EURo? So why don't we open up the debate, to the people who are important to, who are against, and see the arguments within which time, which is why, it's not a commitment we have to. Why do we have to? If something is not good for the Croatian people by respecting our entry into the EU the way we entered what we had betrayed the general, we did not have the exclusive economic belt, we had to sign everything just to get in and out of line and now that we've been given agricultural land, I mean, it's all one set out of this, but we came here where we came from. Why don't we discuss it? Which is why the public would not know the arguments of professional, competent people what it means for the Croatian economy in the long term, what it means for our agriculture, what it represents for our people. But you only give your position, and that's where the prime minister follows you and you swim together, okay, swim. And what will be the results and effects? I completely doubt everything you missed that turned out okay. I have the right to suspect her, would and suspicious Tom in all doubt until he put his hand on a man he didn't peek that he was on the wound. Therefore, the doubts are good, the questions are good, and I expect you as governor to protect national interests. Well, for the first time, 7, 8 or 10 MPs have been gathered recently, and here is my colleague Lovrinović, and they are gathered and fellow Skibolo are here about the problem that is happening with the Croatian think National Bank. So we as people's representatives must come before the DORH. So don't let it, I said then that Croatia is unnatural and not a bank, so we've been a long time, here for years, I don't know if there's this report, but for many years we didn't even know that banks annually on land fees and land fees don't know how many 500ths, 4 billion kunas a year, not on interest from our citizens, natural and legal persons, mostly our citizens, 4 billion kunas have been stolen from the pockets of Croatian citizens. It was only last year that some list was published or the previous list couldn't be satiated after the pressure here this after the pressure was released, meaning 4 billion, so is it a disgrace to the governor, hey, 4 billion kuna banks take on commissions, fees, 500th, as far as he has the dear God and no one knew it, it was hiding, it was hiding. It was also a secret that when you say our GDP is growing, that it grows what you've moved 2/3 of RH to a poor monetary policy, what a servant's relationship with banks, what a eviction of people outside, send money to their families, that's what it shows through the system, and how many people give to their families on the hand of money, what it means to you, that it's not that money that it's going to break up, that people you've moved out, it means 2/3 of the RH you've moved out, and how many people give to your families on the hands of money, and now you're missing the prime minister with GDP growth, of course people sending money you moved out, go see down to the schools closed, there's no one, it's easy to talk about this light of Zagreb and the bells of Brussels burning up and representing some advanced interests, if you don't want to talk about EUR in the way, until you see it't, that you can't really talk about it't really talk about it. So, here, a number of questions are being asked here, I'm asking this as a representative, as someone whom the people sent to ask him if it's known that 2/3 of the RH is empty, known that from my village people are going out, leaving mothers crying, and not them, but they're going and a piece of them to the governor, they're all gone, they're just hearing their dicks on, on bus stations, just hearing it, parents crying, not dicks, there's no pay, there's no pay, there's less and less than the parents crying at bus stations when they're sending their dicks and grandchildren out, and all that money that comes here all of the time, I've been talking to the governor here for days, the day the prime minister is growing, whether it's true that the number of signs is growing, money based on the signs from abroad, he's claiming that it's been my pressure, that it's empty, that I's not talking to me, that I's not talking to myself, but to the rich, that there's to the kids, to the kids, and I's to the kids, and I's to the kids, and I's to go to say, to go to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to go, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to the kids, to I mean, just when I look at people here when I'm talking to people who are being punished by Raiffeisen's savings cooperatives, we've brought this law to two-thirds of their colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, so they've banned them in Hungary, they're coming to Hungary, Austria is haunting them, so it's impossible to return those interests, they took people's real estate, interest, I'm not saying that no triba being obliged, they're paying back their obligations, of course, but it's interest, it's what's happening, here's the example... I don't know what's going on throughout the Republic of Croatia, but it's interesting people, it's a crime, it's against regulations, it's against, contrary to CNB, your voice has to be strong and strong, you have to be with these people who named you, this one you've come from Parliament, you're not gods, here I have to go to Brussels, I have to introduce EUR-o, he and Plenković, and otherwise here we are for years, we've been in business, we've been in business, we've been drinking so much, so nobody's gonna be a Pharaoh in this country, this is a democratic state for which they've given their lives, it's been resistance, not a policy of monetary financial, but on that we've been building our business, but as well as we're asking for the public, and we're going to talk about it's not even the money, and we're going to the money. The appraisers and experts say that 460% will jump, we sold 15 tons of gold gentlemen, if anyone asks the Croatian people and HS did it vote on it, if anyone has discussed it, so let's see if, perhaps, no one, means absolutely this high house, home to the people who sent it here, it's absolutely subjective, so it must be subjective to you if you don't have to ask it, we're enemies now, and in fact you're all except the People's Bank, everything. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would ask you to explain these few questions to me, the key question is what is to be paid for, to call publicly that, this, the PR agency, which will lobby with the main institutions in the Republic of Croatia, what you have done, what you have done, what is with the integrity of these, what is with this release, this, consumer protection directorates, what they have done, when you have established, when you have found out, and those questions answer, EUR-o, a very important question that you force, and other countries that are much more developed, so here I would like to hear the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184140	And now it is Mrs Grozdana Peric who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, to the governor, Vice Governor, State Secretary and Associates. We therefore have a half-yearly report, i.e. the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2019, the fact that these reports are now, and not before, or when they came, is still on schedule for how to schedule the topics themselves at the plenary sessions, but of course always, and we also said on the Committee, that it is in our interest to be state-of-the-art and then to discuss it much better. When we look at 2018, then we can briefly say about the main macroeconomic developments that took place in that year, which is that the annual growth rate in 2018 was 2.6% of GDP compared to 2019 when it was, in 2017, when it was 2,9. Inflation was about 1.5% on average in 2018, and compared to 2017 it was only 1.1%. In this, the current, 2018, sixth year in a row reached a surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments, and it was 4% of GDP, and it decreased by 0.7 percentage points compared to the previous year, i.e. 2017. It is also important to say that interest rates, the average rate was about 3.6%, the average interest rate on new ones and on kuna housing loans, while the year before was almost 4 and 3.9%, respectively. The state also achieved an surplus of 0.2% of GDP in 2018 compared to 2017 when it was around 0.9% of GDP. What else happened during 2018 or the second half of 2018? It is important to say that during this period, investment overall activity has been intensified, and this positive contribution to economic growth has also been given by state consumption, but also domestic demand. It has grown, strong domestic demand has also resulted in high import growth, which has left net exports to increase real GDP negative, so we have imported more than exported, which is actually the problem of the very structure of our economy. In the labour market, favourable movements continued, and continued employment growth was recorded, and at the same time unemployment fell, and in the second half of 2018, the unemployment rate was only 8.4%, which is actually the lowest rate in the last ten or fifteen years. Payments increased during this period, so the average gross salary in the second half of 2018 was higher by 4.4% compared to the previous year. The net salary was also, the real net salary was growing, and that was, it was about 3.9% increase compared to the previous year, because there was a rise in some consumer price indices. When we look at inflation, it has accelerated and in June 2018 it was around 0.7%, and in December around 1%, which is the most, it is the result of an increase in production prices primarily of tobacco products and the growth of excise duties that occurred in December. The current and capital account of the balance of payments resulted in an increase in surplus compared to the previous year. In contrast, deepening the lack of foreign trade in goods, and the adverse developments in the primary income account had the opposite effect. In the second half of 2018, the CNB continued to implement the expansional monetary policy mentioned by the governor and thus supported the high liquidity of the monetary system and at the same time maintained a nominal kuna exchange rate according to the euro stable. The biggest contribution was to the purchase of foreign exchanges from business banks and thus eased the appreciation pressure on domestic currency and thus increased gross international reserves. Under the conditions of this high liquidity, the trend of improving domestic funding conditions has continued, and together with the mitigation of credit and credit demand growth in domestic sectors has continued to increase. In 2018, there was a rise in assets and profitability of banks, so banks increased their assets by 4.4% and there was a noticeable impact on credit growth mainly due to increased credit activity towards the population. Despite the many risks that were present and the lower costs associated with Agrokor Group, the growth in profitability was achieved extremely well, and then the property's contribution to assets and capital yields was very high, it was 1.4 and 8.6%, respectively. The general government, i.e. after a loss of 0.7 billion kuna according to the ESA 2010 methodology in the first half of the second half of 2018, was the surplus of the general government of 1.4 billion kuna, and thus the achievement was significant in the share of the deterioration compared to the surplus of 5.2 billion kuna from the same period of the previous year. However, we must mention those interventions that took place in the shipbuilding, so no wonder that the impact was so great. At the same time, the ratio of GDP or public debt relative to GDP was significantly reduced and was 74.6%, down from June that year by 1.7%. In the second half of 2018, favourable fiscal movements also continued, so that in this period we can say that, even in the achievement of the general state, from July to December 2018, so I said, from 1.4 billion kuna. When we compare what happened in the period after that, or in the first half of 2019, then we see that the dynamics of economic activity in the first half of 2019 were slightly higher and it was 3.1%, which is actually the result of household consumption, meaning personal consumption and gross investment in fixed capital. When we look at and compare the global economy then it is visible from the trends that occurred in China, India, Germany, Italy, we can say that there have been important and major changes and movements in relation to us where the rates of even Germany and Italy are significantly lower than Croatia. The increase in personal consumption was supported by the continuation of favourable labour market movements, as well as the increase in household lending, which we have seen from exposure, which has contributed to increasing household loans and this is the period of the first half of 2019 when the very high level of consumer optimism is high. Capital investments have also occurred where the state and the stronger investment activity of the general government has been strongly potentiated as for example. which is the Peles Bridge. The strong growth of domestic demand has resulted in an increase in imports that was higher than export growth, which has deepened the negative contribution of net foreign demand. In the first half of 2019, there were also favourable labour market developments and employment continued to grow and it was increased by 2.3%. We have seen the demands on the labour market in tourism, and it is evident that the need for labour has been very high. What should be further mentioned is that there was an inflation of consumer prices, i.e. that they slowed down and that in June 2019, 0.6% of the most important factor at inflation level also had energy prices where when we look at the 2018 oil barrel was increased by about 11% and to 63 US dollars respectively, which was about $7 higher than 2018. When we look at the end of the first half of 2019, the total international reserves of the CNB were 14% higher than the end of 2018 and they then reached almost 20 billion euros and 19.88, respectively, in the first half of 2019, we must also say that there was an increase in the assets of the bank's profitability and that there was a very high capitalisation and liquidity of the system and continued improvement in the quality of credit risk exposure. Nevertheless, the most affected by the increase in assets was 0.8% of the increase in investment in securities, and then credit activities aimed at the population. This is how we can say that all the measures implemented by the CNB during this period have maintained the stability of the system and, of course, the HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184142	Thank you. I thank Mr Zekanovic, who pointed out to me in time and also invite him to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184143	That's how the esteemed vice president is himself. I mean, I'm talking about myself, so I'd like to come in as soon as I've warned you. So, we're talking about half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of price stability, etc., and we'll start in a row. Your Honor, I asked the question earlier, you gave me an answer, but here I am going to repeat the material to hear the citizens. Can you get out of the ERM2 course mechanism? You told me not to or that you didn't go out or go in, but simply when you came in you stood up and met those conditions or didn't meet them, right. Then I want Croatia not to meet these conditions. But this is interesting to me that you have told me that the government of Andrej Plenkovic cannot come out of this mechanism without consulting this House, even if it formally introduced the euro into Croatia, without having had a broad public debate, a broad public debate in Croatian society with experts, with economists, with people who understand themselves in finance, we have introduced the euro without the knowledge of anyone, without going to this House to say a word about it. And you tell me dead coldly here, you didn't lie, you can't come-out because you came in standing. And of course the EU will let us go because it suits her, it doesn't matter what suits us, it's important that it suits Brussels because if we were to talk about our interests, the situation would probably be a little different. And that's what the public needs to know, that Croatia has already introduced the euro, has already introduced the euro and out of this exchange mechanism that one is trying to convince the introduction of the euro cannot come out and it is a catastrophic fact and it has to be spoken of. Furthermore, here, colleagues have already asked a question for a famous RBA bank or cooperative, here's to hearing your reaction, but in the right way, not so camouflaged. I know you and these people probably know each other, so that's that mile, but here's the guy, so tell me, your attitude is that one banking institution, one of the most powerful in the state, pays the PR firm, the company, the agency to influence the Constitutionals. You are actually obliged, look you did not come here and say your own so little colleague Peric will say something, so a little later colleagues Lovrinović, Škibola, you are obliged to give us answers because if this is you have come, we have said, you are something... I want you to hear a clear and loud attitude regarding RBA and the agency that has been hired to influence the Constitutional Court. Here, please. So these are two questions, first repeat for the ERM course mechanism once again, the second is this. Thirdly, if we introduce the euro, here's the third question, I really want to wait for answers, then you go to the European People's Bank, right, I guess, and I'm interested specifically, now you have a salary of 40 thousand kuna, great, I'm glad you have a good standard, what is the salary of members of the European People's Bank? I want the citizens of Croatia to know how much our representative in the European People's Bank will have to pay, I suppose it will be you. And it's a little bit of a conflict of interest to me, don't be angry, it'll be legitimate for someone to advocate the introduction of the euro because they'll have 3.4.5.6 times the pay, I'm not sure now that 20,000 euros. 150,000 kuna, 200, 250 or only 130,000 kuna, I don't know, but here I am looking for those answers here. Furthermore, you didn't mention it, but you mentioned it on the way, but I have to say it here one more time, here's Minister Maric here was fair and I always have to commend him no matter what the situation in the banana is he knows how to answer things like that. So, about bonds, bonds, so we're 5, here's not to be prepared until the end, but here's 5.5 billion kuna, and then 5 billion kunas on the domestic market, and then on the foreign market, what I want to say here is, okay, a lot of countries are raising bonds, that this money is going to be coming back in 10 years. And more and if we were already 90 billion kunas plus- maybe 100, maybe 105, maybe 85, it doesn't matter, the debt of billions of kunas, you're gonna say okay with all the loans, or everybody's issuing bonds, this is even more favourable if they're more favourable bonding conditions than they were now, but it's got to be said here that people don't think this money was donated, this money we actually borrowed from someone, it was a natural person, it wasn't a company, it's not a company, it's somebody who bought bonds, some state, whoever it is, I could buy anyone, a pension fund, but it's loaned and someone's gonna pay him back with interest and they'll pay him back in 10 years, who's gonna sit in this assembly or at your place, I wouldn't be in his skin. And maybe just here for the end of one little thing like this that's not tied up, not tied up so much, just to find here amongst... Here's a bravo, I found, so since the next item of the agenda is the SDP bill, they called it about the abortion, and I'm talking about the protection of life, I'm wondering if you should issue this kind of jubilee coin of 25 kuna that was issued in 2000, 2000. The coin was issued, on the one hand it says 25, and on the other hand one small embryo, one small embryo, as one, means one pro-life campaign, so I'm wondering if you should, not because you're the governor, so you can't, would your boss, the one who put you there, who you actually answer to, Andrej Plenkovic, the president of the Croatian Government, allow you to do so? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184144	Now it is Mr Ivan Lovrinović's turn to speak on behalf of the living wall representative and to change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the CNB, respected citizens, above all I address you, we are discussing half-yearly information from the CNB for the second half, so 2018. and the first half of 2019. I'm not going to go into a lot of details here because we've heard completely unnecessary stories because this half-yearly information is regularly published on the CNB pages. I would like to begin by reminding the respected citizens here at first, that because of all this that has been happening in the last years in the Republic of Croatia because of the Franak case where there was about half a million parents, which means children, are covered by these problems, because 8 banks approved so-called. toxic financial credits, meaning kuna loans that are related to francs, because interest rates were made by the Republic of Croatia, which were issued without covering that I filed a criminal application with my colleague Škibol a week ago against the CNB for the period 2000 years, so here and on behalf of the Party We change Croatia I filed a criminal application against the sole Raiffeisenbanka from Zagreb because it was completely public, all other institutions could see it and the citizens saw it, so the citizens and one portal responded, they publicly sought a pirate agency that would affect the work of courts in the Republic, so we see how much this financial banking system was raped and so I filed a criminal application. Now, you see, in every country, the central bank plays an important role, the game of circumstances, I'm dealing with this area as an economic expert in 30 years, which in monetary policy, which to international finances, I'm sorry that no governor in the history of the new Republic of Croatia has therefore been a specialist in monetary affairs, but it was usually for public finances, for the labour market, doctorate etc., but apparently it was appropriate for the authorities to have such people. Now look at something, let's go, my goal here as well as the politician and the economic expert to expose this notion of financial stability, you know financial stability can be achieved, and that the pre-economy is falling apart and that you have a society and citizens who fail, go bankrupt, they get sick, it's possible, it's very, very, very, very possible. You see how this financial system in the Republic of Croatia was conceived, the most important part of the financial system are banks, the banking system, the number of banks has dropped drastically, the isolation of the Republic of Croatia was almost 60, now there are 21. In that banking system, it's an Italian-Austrian banking system because 4-5 banks control 81% of the assets of the banking system, there's no S of sovereignty and we've become simply a colony. But whether financial stability when you have over 300,000 blocked people, many of whom have been completed, some 8 million different tasks have been carried out so far, according to legal profession data. On the other hand, the industry has fallen due to the unreal exchange rate of the Croatian Kuna, which has been running since '93-'4. to date, because of the extremely high interest rates that are now not 20-30% more compared to others than 20-30 times, I repeat 20-30 times more than in Austria and Germany and therefore to other EU members, and even those not in the Eurozone. So you see what this financial stability is, so what does the CNB and its representatives say here? He says, for 25 years now, we've kept the nominal stability of the exchange rate that means in translation until I tell the world and the ages as long as they're alive they'll be there and they'll be there and the EUR 1 will be the 7th point of 4 kuna. I must admit that these four years in politics, nothing is more difficult for citizens to explain than the role of the central bank and show people that it is the second largest destabiliser of the Croatian economy, society and state with the judiciary. It's really understood I'm very hard to explain. Well, that's why we started.../incomprehensible/... getting criminal applications now we'll see how much it's going to cost in DORH, how much DORH has, how independent it is, how much power it has to run. But the day will come when we will enter the CNB, not us, but the institutions that need it, the independent auditors, the state audit and the other experts because we people don't know my true state of affairs there. And I'll show you through this exhibit of mine. I would like to emphasise the following, CNB in 2017, 2018 cumulatively achieved debt, loss in fact loss of 3.5 billion kuna to see today not a word of it. You know, it's good when you're defending institutions, I understand that, so you have to at least admit a little bit that it's minus, so you say we'll get better, none of that. So this nobody within such a short time, I don't even know Agrokor did in two years a loss of 3.5 billion as the CNB did. And not only that, the CNB has been the fastest in several years to owe the Republic of Croatia abroad, and it participates in the external debt of Croatia, you will not believe with more than EUR 3 billion. Now somebody's gonna say, well, you're normal, which is why you're gonna get EUR 3 billion when the foreign exchange reserves are on you anyway, which you're gonna be in debt for another EUR 3 billion. I'll talk about it later. They were in debt for EUR 3 billion through.../incomprehensible/... jobs, it's impossible to explain in the short term, and you know how much they earned and it's questionable that their accounting, accounting, we'll check it out eventually, they've earned about 30 million kuna of 25 billion kuna last year means how much they owed. But it's all about that after. So the exchange rate is which is unreal for 26 years with privatisation for us from the Party Change Croatia that is the second magnum crime of modern Croatia, Croatian state. These are the two biggest crimes committed in Croatia in the area of the economy. Somebody's gonna say so don't overdo it, man, do you mean what you're saying? You see, I'm going to try to explain to you why the course is the second largest crime of these governments that have led Croatia so far. When the cost structure is changed in Croatia and any other country then, although the cost and rate of inflation in Croatia is growing more quickly over 10, 20 years than in Austria, Germany, France, etc., it is compared and measured then that country which is inefficient, which has more costs, more inflation it must weaken its exchange rate. And it's like that by all theories, by all theories. But you see, I now support that you can declare financial stability that your course is nominally stable, but you destroyed, you decimated the export sector of Croatia that was. The good part of the shipbuilding has failed because of that my people, wooden, everything else that is, because of course they will prove to you you know it's important to have a stable nominal exchange rate. And with this lie, Croatia is sure to fail, the rifle did not drive 300 to 400,000 people out of Croatia, and this is economic and monetary policy, HDZ and SDP. And therefore, no one has ever entered that institution called the CNB. She's beyond any democratic surveillance. Out of democratic control. And what's happened now, why is, these people are doomed to cooperate with each other, who used to act in power, now and who are now acting in the CNB, because it's the same team that's around everything, each other were godfathers, and that's why they're sticking with each other. And I'm even sorry about the SDP saying that the opposition is they essentially either don't come to the debate or they're against the proposal of a new CNB or each other holding a candle. So, the real opposition is, it's not, it's not the one that's being promoted, it's us who's talking about it, we're the topic of CNB, kuna, EUR, blocked we've brought to the Croatian Parliament. You have to defend it, of course, because there's no other way. The Prime Minister wants to make a profit on the EUR-o project personally and with his colleagues in the Brussels system means that the administration will do something about it. So, for 25 years the exchange rate according to EUR is fixed, it is confused. Well, look, if this is, if it's been constantly preached that this stability is important to us, so we've had a real EUR 25-o without the EUR, it's a fixed exchange rate, if it was important, so why didn't we, why did we break the balance of payments to gentlemen? So, talk to the experts, not your propaganda team that you drive around Croatia to explain how you should, always the same team, how you should introduce the EURo. These records will remain for the Croatian people to see who was doing and saying, and I am convinced that we will clear this up quickly and in parliamentary elections. So, for 25 years, the same exchange rate policy is being conducted, and now, as a result, says financial stability is by definition, you'll say it, no matter what kind of shock comes from the country, outside that the banks don't fail because they're capitalised, etc., but we have a continuous balance of payments deficit in external trade with the world on international exchange, in the last 10 years. The deficit cumulative in the trade is 70 billion EUR, 70, that's 520 billion kuna we have more imported in the past 10 years. than we did, you broke it with such a course, so we have coverage, read '93, so when it was war, the Republic of Croatia had coverage of exports with 90%, now it fell not even 50% you understand, Serbia has 70%, Slovenia has dropped from 100% to 95%, so they're worried, so don't sell, so to whom you sell fog. Let's go further on the data because we from the Party Change Croatia we want to talk to the arguments and make suggestions on how to change it. But now that you're saying, someone says, they were talking to me when I got into politics, don't talk about Lovrinovic's exchange rate, there's going to be piarovci, CNB, and there's going to be a hole in you. Why? Because you're about to devalue the kuna, and it's going to grow in debt to the debtors, so of course you've made that wall, you've made a strategy on how to euronize, how to tie people's loans to other people's currencies, and then destroy them if there's a change of course, that means what you've designed, it's a real strategy, and that's why 300,000 are blocked, and that's why about 500,000 people suffer because of Frank, a lot of people are sick, many have left the Republic of Croatia can't pay, so the CNB with the banking system is a key destabiliser of the Croatian economy, society and state by the judiciary, but it's going to be a quick election. Dear citizens, I urge you to stop this drama of Croatian peoples and states, to turn the wheel because there is enough of us, regardless of what many people have moved out, which will hit the table, gather heads and say we are going this way now, that the CNB is an institution that will support growth and development, and not support the banking system that lends interest and interest to its people, itself to drive them to flee abroad. On the other hand, who is, what is financial stability in your concept? The public debt, your data, increased from 284 billion kuna when you came to power to 299, you published it, so you don't lie to the Croatian people, you keep saying that the public debt fell, you increased the external debt when you came from EUR 40.5 to EUR 43 billion, these are also official data from the CNB, so we have total destabilision of the real sector, total destabilision, so let's say, poverty of the population sector, increase in external debt, public debt, losses of the CNB, and everything else and so we need to implement monetary reform and the CNB put under democratic supervision. Croatian society. [[Intruder: Time Professor]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184146	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the governor of Mr. Boris Vujčić, you must come here, here, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184147	I'm sorry, I just realized that I have five minutes to answer, so I'm going to try to answer both of these before the intervention, so as far as this first course mechanism is concerned, as I said, it's not supposed to enter the Eurozone either, so there's no but the country at the end always can, the Greeks were ahead of the vote in parliament to get out of the Eurozone, so they decided it's better to stay in the Eurozone, so regardless of the legal mechanisms as such, for something like that always at the end if there's a political decision and will, there's a way. As far as Raiffeisenbanka is concerned, I have already answered the question of Mr. Agent Scybola, so the investigation is conducted by the DORH, the CNB is currently carrying out surveillance, for now what is clear is that the President of the Board has resigned, I think it is significant that this means that it will not continue with such a policy, I have made it very clear to the bank that it is totally unacceptable and that it cannot continue, and it is not, and that is only part of what will happen in the bank. We can't talk about it, at the very end of the line, and we're working with the DORH on it, but make sure that's how it's gonna be. As far as the European Central Bank is concerned, I'm sitting on the board of the then European Central Bank if we enter the EUR one day, I have the same salary I have now, so I don't have any other salary, every MP there has a salary in his own country. As for the bond, therefore the debt is refinanced more cheaply, but the debt as a share in GDP falls, it is important, meaning external debt and public debt, and it is not owed further as long as there is a surplus in the fiscal account, which is a good or balanced bar debt, which is the same partial response to what Mr Lovrinovic said, he is talking about nominal numbers, the only thing that is important in the economy are relative figures, meaning the ratio of external debt and public debt relative to GDP and one and the other falls very quickly, means public debt falls 4 times faster than the requirement of the European Regulation, and we are the country that achieves the second fastest fall of public debt in GDP. What Mr. Lovrinović said is still about the HNB's debt no, it confirms that he doesn't really understand anything about it, as we've seen many times, namely, it's simply that you have jobs where you swap liabilities on one side and on the other, so the net debt doesn't, so what you're looking for is a debt, and you're making a living on it, so why wouldn't the CNB make 30 million kuna without the net debt increasing? What you're saying is only one side of the balance sheet, and you don't see the other side of the balance sheet, you have to understand as a professor of economics that there are two sides of the balance sheet. As far as the course is concerned, if we had listened to what you suggested about the course then exactly what you were saying would not have been realized, it would not have fallen long but would have grown if the CNB had led a policy that would have devalued the 10% rate, the debt in Croatia would have been 50 billion kuna. If we had devalued the 20% rate, it would have been a hundred billion kuna, which means that household debt would be bigger, we wouldn't be able to pay them back, then we would have with the EUR what you saw with Swiss, so that business debts would be bigger, we wouldn't have for investment, and that debt would be bigger, and the state wouldn't have had for its own, consumption, or it would have to raise taxes, or it would have to reduce consumption, and that would certainly lead Croatia into recession, and that's one truth about the course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184148	We're going to the Rules of Procedure, please be very clear. Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184149	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vujčić hurt Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, meaning he insulted and disrespected MP Lovrinović, in such a way that he said that MP Lovrinović had no idea what he was talking about, so I ask you to protect us from these statements, the insult of Governor Vujčić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184150	Mr. Bully, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184151	Thank you very much, President. Rules of Procedure 236, 237, 239 have been injured, because you, as chairman, should have referred to these articles and warned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184152	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184153	...and warn a fellow Wolfie,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184154	Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184155	...that he can't insult the MPs of Parliament, Professor Lovrinović. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184156	No, just, just, just a minute. Article 239 states: “The agent will be told a warning if he acts contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure.” Tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184157	You've hurt, so you've hurt 236.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184158	As an agent? As an agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184159	As chairman,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184160	I'm like an agent hurt...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184161	You're allowing the governor to insult the MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184162	Wait a minute, but we're not on, we're not in the market, you need to be clear, it's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184163	I said, I'll count the articles out one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184164	That's the Rules of Procedure, you have to tell me if you're giving me a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184165	As chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184166	Then it's not 239, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184167	So don't let him insult the governor of the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184168	Please sit down, it's not 239, it's not 239, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184169	237,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184170	Please nice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184171	236, 237.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184172	You have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184173	Thank you, but don't let people...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184174	You have a warning. We can't play, I mean, we're not in a pub, no. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184175	Unfortunately, there is no article to be called upon, I will refer to 238, but unfortunately there is no article that can be warned about the inadmissible behaviour of the applicant. So in 238, but there's no article that would have warned about the inadmissible behaviour of the proposer, this time we had...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184176	Who are you... You're the one who caused Mr. Schibol's injury? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184177	No, it's the gentleman...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184178	But as he spoke, Mr. Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184179	Well, I'm a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184180	Well, then you have a warning, too. Please sit down. As for Mr. Scybol, we are very much in doubt after the Constitutional Court's decision, uh, but in some ways you're right, in some ways you're right, I won't give any warning to anyone, I won't give any warning to anyone, but I would pray that we all refrain from, when we talk about other agents,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184181	... ............................................................................................................ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184182	So we can agree on an explanation like this? We can. Mr. Zekanovic's second warning, you can't speak anymore, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184183	It's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184184	And what? Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184185	So I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184186	Wait, wait, wait, wait. You've already asked for a break today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184187	About this point of the agenda, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184188	You can ask for a break once a day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184189	So I can't, so... All right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184190	Here you go, Mr. Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184191	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Independent Youth List, I seek a 15-minute break, for the reason that Mr Boris Vujčić came to the Croatian Parliament and simply insults the parliamentary representatives here, does not respect the parliamentary representatives and remains in the position of the Croatian National Bank who whenever we call them to account, they always say that they are independent of the Croatian Parliament, that they are not interested in the Croatian Parliament, that they are not interested in Croatian citizens, so I am looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184192	18:18, by 6:30, 12 minutes, we all could use a break. Thank you very much. It's 6:19 a.m. I'd like to continue, and I'd like to invite Mr. Bull who has a replica of the governor's exhibit now. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184194	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Governor. Here I am, in the replica, going to say the same thing that I thought, it's not right for the MPs to be insulted in a way that you say that Professor. Lovrinović doesn't know anything. We are MPs, nor do I consider myself an expert, but I will ask you a number of questions that result from poor policies and monetary and all policies of the CNB and other policies, that is our obligation. I have asked you several questions, I have asked you a question of savings-credit cooperatives, I have asked you a question of the euro, the introduction of the euro until other countries introduce, I have listed the Czech Republic, Poland, Sweden, Denmark, and they are also in the euro area. Why do we crash into the euro, and we don't know the results that will be on the economy and economy, besides the lives of citizens? I'm interested in you answering those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184195	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184196	Thank you very much for asking, Reverend Bull. So the two issues are first RBA cooperatives, I've talked about it a lot here, but it's just as I think it is already here and it's concluded that the CNB is not responsible for the supervision of institutions that provide cross-border loans from other countries. So these were cooperatives that were neither licensed in Croatia nor ever reported to us, nor did we know that they were giving credit to someone because they were giving them from Austria. As for the euro, I must say that we have invited all representatives to the CNB to discuss the euro, and some have responded, some have not responded, and we have also organised several public appearances of the stands where we have explained why the euro is good for Croatia. What I can say in short is that I don't have a lot of time is that we are because we are a high-euro-state means most of the savings in Croatia are still in euro, a country that is of all people in Europe, currently the EU can profit most from the introduction of the euro, and we are also the smallest country in the EU that hasn't introduced the euro yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184197	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Lovrinović has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184198	The Honorable Chairman. I've been listening to the governor for four years when he comes, and I don't know what happened in his head today, no one's ever humiliated him by the MPs and insulted him. I don't know why he chose me today to insult me and humiliate me here. Is it because of a criminal report that he wants to get back at me for filing a criminal charges against him because he's now the most responsible deputy, is it because he sees everything he does to go to ruin? Anyway, it's not good, I never told you that because I'm an academic man, I appreciate other opinions, I would never tell you that you don't know anything. You've seen me take a nice look at you. I've been taking out my papers, my arguments, I've expected you to do the same. But why do you lose your temper, why do you insult me and other MPs? It's probably all gone from Prime Minister Plenkovic, who's usually too proud to other institutions, so I'm surprised you've become one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184199	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović is only in line to tell you, before I said that the MP could say more than the promoter can, and the reason is that I can give the MP a warning, and unfortunately, I'm proposing to this Rules of Procedure that I don't know who wrote it, so that's why. So, you saw we let everyone say what they think now we're moving on, okay. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184200	So I absolutely apologize if you felt offended, I just replicated the basis of what you said you were sorry that the CNB never elected a governor who understands monetary policy. It was exclusively about that. And as for criminal charges and criminal charges filed, all I have to say is that I am very sorry that the criminal application institute is used for political marketing. Today it has become obviously very popular to file criminal charges, call the media and use it as a political marketing. I'd be happy if there was a responsibility to file such criminal charges when they were already filed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184201	I have no intention of complicating this debate anymore, I don't understand how a guest here can replicate to us fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184202	No, no, wait a minute, you're looking for a break. I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184203	I'll just be clear, please stick to and so from... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184204	Unfortunately, yes. Mr. Lovrinović, heavy hearts, and I know you have the best intentions but I have to give you a warning because you can't give a reply to the reply to the replica, I mean forgive me, but we have a Rules of Procedure here which is the law, the Rules of Procedure is the law and we voted it here, yes. And I think you voted for the Rules of Procedure, too. Let's move on. Mr. Marin Skibola will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184205	Thank you, Vice-President HS, we will continue to discuss the report of the CNB for 2018 and 2019. The 2018 report states that the increase in real GDP has contributed most to the growth of personal consumption reflecting the continuation of positive movements and consumer optimism. I can't agree with that pamphlet you're referring to in that report because I personally don't see that consumer optimism that you're suggesting here, I see the optimism of exodus, I see optimism that young people are actually leaving our homeland and I see pessimism in the context of the remains in the Republic, but consumer optimism I don't see in the Republic, and there's a big question on what parameters are you counting on this consumer optimism that's listed here? Here today my colleague from the Executive Uprising Association called me, he tells me that in Međimurje County there are a large number of actions that have been agreed on in the next period, so the banks have set out in the accelerated prompt processes of evicting people from their properties, we see what banks are dealing with in the Republic of Croatia, we see that the RBA bank has been trying to, be careful not to lobby, so we need to do this one dissent, she has been trying to pressure the Constitutional Judges, in which way she tried to pressure the Constitutional Judges? That's the question that needs to be investigated by the DORH. However, your answer to the CNB's expert bodies was very empty, it was very, as you would call it, very insecure because if, if you, I saw it today and from your answer, you're saying enough is that the president of the RBA bank's administration has resigned, here and now you think that this will neutralize the whole scandal, but what I personally think is your role as a central bank, as the CNB in the context of sanctioning such a phenomenon and such an anomaly that is there, which is a private bank, in this case, the RBA bank has come out, so that your reaction is not only the RBA bank being used by these methods, so it can be assumed that other banks have intervened in such methods, it's just that the RBA bank has come out of sight, so that your reaction is barren, your reaction is not good and I think that it should be used to reminding other banks of the other banks that the important policies that we don't really understand it, and that it is important in fact that the most important in the EU policy that it is important and that it is important that the key that the key that the EU that the key, which it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it. The second thing that you stated in the report, the contribution of net exports to increasing real GDP remained negative, so here you admit it in the report itself, and, but don't ask for your own responsibility in this context, means you admit that net exports remained negative, but you won't get into the problem of why it's negative in terms of keeping your monetary policy, so you won't ask whether the kuna course is too strong, means whether the kuna course is unreal, whether this kuna course can be stimulated according to the advice of many respected and established economists weakens because many of them have talked about it, but yours, your mantra that you repeat is not able to devalue the kuna, and in this way you can stimulate exports because we're going to burden the citizens and they'll have to pay more credit back, but that's what Mr. Lovrinović has explained, you're firstly involved in the framework that you can't use of the currency, so you can't use of the money, but you't use of the money, you're using the money, you's not using the money, you're not using the money, you's not using the money, you's money, you's money, you's money, you's money, you's money, you's money, you's money, but the money, you's, you's money, you's, you's, you's, you's, you's, you's the money, you's, you's, you's the money, you's not using the money, you's, you's, you's, you's, you's the money, you's the money, you's not using the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's not the money, you's the money, you's the money, you's not the money, you', you', you's the money, you's not the money, you's not the money, you's not the money, you It is convenient in this way, to whom, in this way, the import lobby is favoured, imported corporations are destroyed, domestic production is known to you, but what matters to you, it is only important to maintain stability, meaning price stability, there is no impact on the economy and repeat these mantras. Another thing to say and to find out that in the context of what I've said, your concern for national interest is a zero level, I don't see how you advocate national interest if you don't use monetary policy at all in the context of improving the economic situation in the state and I have the impression that you only listen to orders from the international monetary fund that instruct you, they instruct you to do what you need to do and you obediently mean to perform without any responsibility to the HS institution because you insist on calling for that independence of the CNB, but you are not a public institution, you can't be absolute, absolutely independent of the executive authority, you can't be, I know that the CNB is independent, but you simply have to coordinate your policy with the executive policies of the Republic of Croatia and you need to work on incentives, to encourage the economy. You certainly need to reconsider that independence of yours, and I remember how much you resisted, and then you used the same argument when a state audit was required to enter the central bank, and then that argument was most important to you, even though it was known that it did not want to affect monetary policy but rather to enter into the business of the national bank itself and to actually see what it is, what kind of well it is there and, and, and, and how much of a mess there is. However, when it comes to protecting banks and their dirty work, then you are brave, bold, then you will not use your mechanisms at your disposal. The CNB is a public institution, the Croatian citizens pay you, you pay you fatly, you have twice the salary you pay here, but the question is how much you give to this society and what your role is because if society gives you a lot in a material way, and you pay that society back a little, you would dare say that you defend the interests of these private banking institutions more than you defend the interests of Croatian citizens who should be responsible, you work against the hand that feeds you, and that's a fact. Mr. Vujčić, today your role in this mandate is to carry out this implementation of the EUR and you know that only because of this you have received another mandate, you are doing it in one subjective way without constructive discussion, without looking at the advantages and disadvantages, so you are only talking about the advantages, I agree that there are advantages, but you will not say a word of disadvantages, and there are also many, from asymmetric shocks to, to the loss of monetary policy and that something with monetary policy is done at all, etc., etc. This report states that the CNB is during 2018. If this is really the case then this would reflect the deterioration of our currency, so we see that there is no currency devaluation and we see that in fact you say good liquidity, liquidity is excellent, but in reality if you're going to ask small entrepreneurs, if you're going to ask the businessmen, they're going to tell you that in our system there's not a big indifference, so there's a lot of hard money, there's a lot of blocked citizens, there's a lot of credits, which is the consequence of that, that banks can't be charged because of this indifference, and then there's a lot of demand for these various agencies, and there's a lot of different funds that you don't even know about. It is mentioned that when the UK comes out of the EU that I don't know what's going to happen, that there's going to be an economic downturn in Great Britain, that the citizens of Great Britain are going to have to redefine certain policies, and they say we're going to defend our own interests now, so we're not going to let some European Central Bank or some supranational, transnational institutions get involved in all segments of politics and society. You've set an example with Italy, the same story in Italy, they've scared the media with this 5-star movement like they don't know what to do, people have come to power, they're taking care of things, they're doing, so there's no problem, there's no, there's no problem, and, and, uh, you're shrinking means this establishment scares me like I don't know what's going to happen and what's supposed to happen, so there's a big role of media in this whole system, a propaganda role of media that's not inescapable, actually because, where the media is funded, mostly the same thing from that private capital banks, and then it's all connected and you, for example. When you're critical about these policies and then you want to be portrayed as ignorant, then you want to be differentiated in different ways, but it's a policy that won't last long because citizens in their own skin feel this thing that I'm saying here today, so they feel it in their own skin, and they will sooner or later, for existential reasons, reject such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184206	Now, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Boris Lalovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Governor with his associates, and here we are today discussing macroeconomic data for the first half of 2019. and we are discussing, not only the macroeconomic data but also the role of the CNB and monetary policy, and tomorrow we will have the same debate on the Law on Amendments, the addition of the Law on the CNB and on credit institutions, and today we have this something and on the Committee on Finance also talked to our colleagues from the HDZ so that it might be more good for this debate to be united tomorrow with all these laws because these issues that are here today, and we are talking about the most important issues of the macro-economic indicators, and tomorrow about the business, it will be more important for us to come to the business of the CNB to actually be the government, and it would be good for you in the future and the Business Office, and you will not be able to be here when proposing such laws, and the fact that in fact, in fact, in terms of the character of the character of the character, is important to hear some of the key, This is primarily one of these indicators is, indeed, what has been said here today is a strong growth in the growth of credit growth for the population, and the decline, the decline, or credits, economic operators, or businesses are down. This is what is certainly worrying, especially if we say that cash non-intentional loans grow 12%, watch the economy grow up to 3%, GDP is growing 3%, cash non-intentional growth of 12.5%, loans to the population is 6.7%, you see that double or triple growth in the economy, and that loans to the economy are negative regardless of this part of Agrodor and shipbuilding, that they are negative and that they are primarily focused on tourism, reinvestment in tourism, we see that the long-term reinvestment of numerous and private and business entities in tourism will create our own part, part of the competition, and that what is stated in my report itself is that so-called. NPL's or non-income interest, non-income loans primarily in the processing industry, that's what's certainly worrying because we know that, yes, that we are in the period of expansion, that we are in the period of economic growth, that this processing industry is still being restructured and that this is actually visible through these macroeconomic, macroeconomic indicators and what's still worrying in this part is that the share of the key items of the net bank, the key items of the assets of the bank is reduced to 57.9% and to the lowest share in the last 15 g., as well as in fact in their report of the CNB it is, which means that from the total of this property to 412 billion kuna that only 58% in the credit portfolio is here, it seems to me to be about 15-16% invested in the last 15 g., and that the fact that their share of this share, that the amount of the money is significant and the most important of the money is said that the money is that the money, and that the money that the money is, the money that the money that the money that the money is the money that the money that the money is the money that the money that the money is the money that the money that the money that the money is the money is the money that the money is the money that the money that the money is the money that the money is the money that the money is the money that the money that the money is the money that the money is the money that the money that the money that the money that the money that the money that the money and the money and the money and the money and the money that the money the money the money the money the money is the money is the money is the money that the money is the money that the money that the money that the money is the money that the money that the money that the money is the money the money the money is the money the money that the money is the money is the money that the money that the money that the money is the money that the money is the money is the money is the money that the money is the money that the money is the money that the money is the money that the money that the money is the money that the money is the money is the money is the the the money that the money that the money is the the the money the money that the money that the money that the money that the money This is certainly what in this kind of structure in a certain time series shows certain trends that may still not show certain warning signs, but if we also see with this virus world trade, the impact on world tourism, we certainly see a general hysteria about this, secure and closing borders. And when someone announces something, not only our minister but also others that one psychosis is created that will certainly affect the world economy, I don't know, there were estimates of the world economy about 3%, now they're already corrected to 2.5%. But certainly these warnings not only of these external factors very quickly then they emerge when there is a crisis. Moreover, what the observed trend in the bank's balance sheet is that the total deposits received have decreased slightly or their manual structure has changed, largely due to the further spilling of the hand-overs of the population into the transaction accounts. It's a trend that I've felt for the last 5, 6 years to cut the funds, and that there's more and more funds in the transaction accounts, to keep citizens in the transaction accounts. Thus, at the end of the first half of 2019, there was a part of 40.3% of total deposits, but the deposits in the transaction accounts increased and reached 54.2% of which again as such is not good because it is better that banks have some longer-term sources of funding so that these long-term deposits could be transferred to the economy as long-term, and we know that the transactions accounts are that very fast money can and can be withdrawn and that in this context, such a passive bank structure is not something that is in the long term favourable to the economy, regardless of how this part of the trend of lower interest rates as said by the governor who is primarily the consequence of the European quantitative... and ultimately domestic quantitative... of the CNB where we came to low levels of interest rates. And the question is, and that's what nobody really has today to answer some kind of question, what are our instruments in the future tomorrow, in a year, two, three when if this slowdown occurs which are more monetary policy instruments? Is now at some low interest rates that I don't say negative interest rates, a large majority of companies, there's also the governor said is being refinanced, I don't know what the latest data is, but between 2% and 3% are now these, so companies are taking loans are being refinanced and now they have an average interest rate in their balance sheet, I don't know if you have that data, but it would be good to hear what the weighted cost of refinanced credits at a company that's probably now around 2.3%, but the question in the future is if there's a pressure on interest is now interest on such a level that it's not remembered to be so that the next period is certainly three years old... that we have negative interest rates, negative EURIBOR, RNA is at zero level, etc., which our instruments of more monetary policy remain in the future that when there are any kind of disturbances on the market. What is the problem that interest rates can no longer go down, they are now at a historical minimum and now we don't have, I would like that maybe if the Governor knows if there is not only in the CNB but also the European Central Bank which are mechanisms that can more. So it's always been with interest rates, so there are, but now we're at some kind of historical minimum, and now these are some kind of challenges both in front of the CNB and the European Central Bank in the future when there are certain shocks in the market that are more instruments and actionable. Because you're talking about 25 billion kuna liquidity that goes back to citizens' loans. What would certainly be good to see in this report, I don't know if there's any I haven't found, a certain portion of some sort of timeline of these greenfield investments, I don't know if there is. I know that you followed it, that you had that data, that this part of what we're talking about today, means the biggest part of us for foreign exchanges that we're meeting today not only through the export of services or tourism, so these transfers of yields is the largest part of us actually are the withdrawal of eu funds. But for a long time, the state has been defending its payments and capital balance through certain capital and greenfield investments, and that was one part where some certain economic policies were measured as much as we attracted greenfield investments, I think there's no more of that data. We have been in the EU for seven years now, and we know that all the countries that have been joining the EU have attracted certain greenfield investments, so it might be good in these kinds of reports, however, that some kind of review and these greenfield investments that encourage industry, encourage production, and it would be good to follow them in certain macroeconomic indicators, and not just to say that we have attracted certain eu funds, and we ourselves are all saying that we are using most of the eu funds for import. And that's what my colleague Schucker was saying, in fact, that we attract eu funds, most of the eu funds have been withdrawn, but it's being reused for imports,... in that part of the consumption or imports, and then it actually reduces that part of GDP. And what is actually here and it has been established that this effect after seven years of EU membership exports, goods exports that create that negative part that it declines. Also here is a very important issue, and it is about the prices for housing loans, or for these non-intentional loans, that is, the question that I should say these savage real estate prices on the real estate market, especially unevenly. Because look at 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the price of real estate falls, only on certain parts, especially in tourist areas or in the city of Zagreb, you have an exponential rise in real estate prices. And then you have one really economically difficult situation for those in the cities that are pressured by very high real estate prices that are later in debt, and on the other hand we have other parts of Croatia where differences are two to three times each. And now also the impact of these price pressures on real estate, I say not at all Croatia's level, but at the level of certain parts we see these huge disproportionateities and also here we see certain difficulties that are certainly affecting demographic policy, I apologize, and also the driven economic policies. So, as far as I'm concerned, about this part of our recommendation may be in the future that when such proposals are made then and considered to be passed by tomorrow's laws to bring it together, and that tomorrow and this debate might be better quality in order to get answers related, today we get some answers from the governor when it comes to the EUR-o, the EUR-o II mechanism, etc., I believe that tomorrow, but tomorrow you will also make it easier for the government when it defends certain laws that can then give more quality answers, so since it is a specific topic, which requires a number of answers here I would like you to consider in the future and perhaps some changes to the Rules of Procedure and perhaps allow colleagues from the CNB to then make these specific legislative proposals together with the Government this one to give them more quality discussions in the assembly and then perhaps some communication, some kind of communication, the noise of communication between the MPs and, perhaps, this might be smaller. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184208	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to repeat a few of the thematics that I just presented in my debate, which is that, with the judiciary, the CNB is the largest destabiliser of the Croatian economy, society and state. Why? Because 100 thousand people in Croatia are threatened with interest rates, huge debts, inability to pay off credit, and this is all expensively tolerated by the CNB which has the task of protecting, among other things, price stability and such exchange rate, it means that the stability of citizens and the economy does not matter to it, it does not want to affect it. Well, you see, I've already presented the thesis that it is Croatian, in fact, many economists in Croatia and in the world say that the kuna course has been unrealistic for 26 years. That the CNB is every year since '94. In the year only 1% weakened the exchange rate he would today be very different and much more companies would remain on the market, especially export companies. However, they have just devised a currency clause in the CNB to implement a policy of euroisation of the Croatian monetary system. By pushing the kuna out of circulation and by doing so, they have made exchange policy impossible, inactive. Because what they would say, if you say you need to weaken the kuna, not devalue, no one in this country is looking for a devaluation of 10.20%, but a smart one to lose 1%, 2% that no one notices, and that's what all countries do in the world of Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Turkey, all tourist countries. And you're selling us stories here, and I'm sorry that you're losing your nerve, that you're insulting the MPs here, especially me, I don't know why you took me on the tooth, you've never done it, you've never done it, but obviously when a man insults someone else then shows his weakness, there's no arguments, maybe you're worried about a criminal application. We understand all that, but here I am not going to insult you with respect and I'm telling you the arguments. Let's move on, so the People's Bank has put on watch she's like a living wall put her citizens in front of her and then she says, anyone looking for a weakness course will endanger these people. But respected citizens, we who are experts, we know a simple way to solve this problem. We will abolish the currency clause, turn all loans with the currency clause into kuna loans, as Hungary and other countries did, and then run an active exchange rate policy. As you can see, it's not my solution, my invention, it's already been done by other countries. Why are they, because they keep banks, their stability, and from banks every year, you've seen 4.5 billion kunas of pure profit going out. For example, for 2018, net 4.9 billion kunas of which 3 billion kunas of net profits were transferred by banks to their mothers in Italy, and nearly 2 billion to their banks. It means 5 billion kuna, and during that time the Croatian economy, the citizens are groaning under the burden of debt and many of them, there are too many blocked, completed, etc. And you see when you can't implement the active and you won't implement the active policy of the exchange rate of kuna and you're breaking your spine, you broke your spine with the Croatian economy. Then what's going on? Here, European, what has happened here is that one European Union Institute has published an analysis that is professional, scientific that in the past 10 years Croatia has been one of the 6 countries where salaries for workers have fallen most realistically, so they have fallen realistically over the past 10 years. Most fell in Greece by 15%, Cyprus 7% and immediately after that to Croatian workers 5%. Dear citizens, what does this mean? This means that when the National Bank leads a bad policy, holds a course like this impossible, then all workers must pay and only they can increase the competitiveness of Croatian exports. In what way? In a way to cut their wages. Now that's called internal devaluation. So, they're not going to work at the central bank, they're not doing what she's supposed to do, and then employers are cutting salaries to keep their competitiveness to the abroad, and they're bringing their workers, their citizens, as an altar to the international market, or the world market. So this is professional data, this is all published, so I'm not making anything up here. What's the other problem? You see, let's comment on the growth of gross domestic product. It grows, under quotes, although I doubt it, on unhealthy grounds, above all on personal consumption, it also grows on state consumption. But where does personal consumption come from? A little while ago, my colleague Schibola said well, he says be careful why this material is a pamphlet because it says that personal consumption is growing because of consumer optimism. It should be in translation that our standard is getting bigger, it's getting bigger wages, it's getting happy, it's going shopping malls and shopping. It doesn't matter. Do you know why the consumption of citizens is growing? Well, because they're taking more and more cash non-intentional loans to survive, paying off those old debts, buying something they need, and the most growing from our workers abroad. These donations are when we turn about 25 billion kunas into kunas 3 billion 200 million euros. Do you know what 25 billion kuna means when it enters a small country like Croatia out of touch? So our people are driven out of Croatia to seek bread, to look for jobs, to earn here and here through their gifts and to spend their relatives they raise their GDP. Well, at least someone from this government told them thank you, gentlemen, thank you for raising our consumption here. However, if this consumption were to be turned dominantly towards domestic products, that would be great. However, the majority of citizens' consumption goes to import goods, import goods, and that's where the devil's circle closes. So since we're importing more and more then the balance sheet deficit is increasing, or the external trade balance, and that's the devil's circle that the National Bank never wanted to break by changing the exchange rate policy. It's the truth about growth. So when GDP is growing on personal consumption, because of the workers' signs and profits in tourism, then it's an unhealthy and dangerous way. What's the distribution of credit in the banking system? In 2019, 259 billion kuna loans were granted in total, of which 121 billion, to the state of 40, to 80 billion enterprises. You see, when you show this as a blood count, you immediately know it's a land that has no perspective. Why? Because it means that the banking system most favours practically financing the consumption of citizens, not production, not investments. So if we add up the state and the population they're spending, then there's 69% of all the credit goes to them, and only 31% to the businesses. Such an economy must be a long-term failure and we're on the verge of it, we must be going into it. I don't mean to be a disaster, but someone here has to say it. You see, the banking system last year is only 18.4 billion kuna to the processing industry, and trade please 15.6 billion. So more approved by companies, real estate agencies than all agriculture, that's a picture of the Croatian economy, that's what it is. You are therefore neither Croatian nor national, nor bank, and this will be a question for you in the time that comes which you have worked for and for what you have worked for. And I'll end up here because I'm running out of time. I repeat that this system survives because 25 billion kunas every year come foreign exchange records and these people should be thanked because they keep it that way, they keep the stability that many people don't starve here. And in the end, you allowed banks to sell 34 billion kuna of non-payment loans, the state granted them that for so much a reduction in the amount meant the mass taxing tax on profits, they bought it with a large discount of about 70% of the debt enforcement agency and eventually the state didn't get anything, the banks didn't pay her profit tax, the citizens still make 100%, and this is practically, this isn't the state. Yes, but for you, not for us. And the respected citizens who watch us I invite you to finally put an end to this and in these elections we simply send these people into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184210	We have one replica of your presentation of the esteemed representative of the Squistle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184211	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Lovrinovic was recently also convicted of the Supreme Court in Swiss franc cases where eight banks were found to have damaged interests and actually worked against the interests of Croatian consumers. And then the question is, what role was there in the central bank that allowed it all, they didn't respond at all when they had to react and what would be the consequences of not reacting and not doing the CNB? Simply a large number of Croatian citizens found themselves in deep debt slavery, a large number of Croatian citizens lost their property, many even committed suicides. So here we are looking for the responsibility of the National Bank and the people who were then acting on duty for issuing contaminated loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184212	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184213	Thank you, fellow Scybola, for asking. You see, that's what the court found, and I'm sure the Supreme Court will confirm soon at the 4th month because all institutions in other countries have ruled, etc. What was the National Bank doing? Nothing. Once the current governor has said something somewhere to someone that no one has even passed on and he points out, the National Bank points out that it was... No, look, there's national security at stake here, hundreds of thousands of people are suffering. As you have said, many have become ill and the good part is hard, many have had to flee the country with their belly after bread. So if this isn't a threat to national security, and one of the tasks was the central bank, that's exactly what they didn't warn, and they didn't do it, but to prevent the sale of broken products like the Swiss franc. And that's what you have to answer for and see, so obviously the fear has started to work, and the anxiety has started to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184214	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184215	Here, I would just briefly point out once again, take this opportunity that the CNB has not done its job in protecting citizens in the past periods. I say that as a parliamentary representative, not the interest of the Croatian economy because something is always being imposed. As a representative, as a citizen above all, to draw from the Croatian bank 4 billion kunas for fees and commissions and that until recently it was not announced what fees they were and what fees they were, and the number seemed 400,500 fees to me. Now they've been published recently. So that's huge money a year, 400, 4 billion kuna a year. It's a huge amount of money, which we're giving not interest, but fees, commissions, and it's really huge money. You've given the governor an emphasis on generating GDP growth and, above all, personal consumption. My predecessor talked about it, and I've been talking about it for three or four days here and through parliamentary issues to the prime minister, he said that these are my pressures to grow GDP, to grow GDP and personal consumption based on foreign evidence. We've moved people out, they're sending money, we don't even give them the right to the governor or vote, they don't have the right to vote, they've got the right to vote, they're not cast voters, and they don't have the right to vote. And these people basically send 6.6% of GDP, 6.6% of GDP is sent to these young people who have left with their families, doctors, teachers of what is missing in Croatia. And now we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, they're sending money, their parents are spending it in some way, they're doing about 20 billion kuna, and that's that GDP growth. You know when that happened to the governor? In the 1960s, when trains to Germany were organized to go to the baustel, they went to Germany, but the families stayed. In my area, a lot of my family members, probably here and from fellow family members, went to Germany and organized a tram. So you haven't just advised yourself to increase the prime minister's GDP to organize trains for Germany, planes to Ireland, in the '60s, it was such a policy, it was organised to send people to send German stamps to my area. And that's true. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty, we have no growth. We don't have growth, I'm sorry, we have paper growth, but it's long-term unsustainable, because this policy that you're conducting and supporting is basically all work force, mostly doctors, professors, everything that's missing is being driven out. And these people with their families are leaving, if they leave the family, Croatia remains empty. If Croatia remains empty, the state is not only a territory that we do not know how to protect, we do not have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt. If the state is empty with this monetary policy, then we don't have the workforce, there remains an empty space. The state is both human and territorial. So, you're running a bad policy. I'll never forget I'll always mention it to the governor. What a mastechef I've been reading to you, the contest has been announced that you have to have a whore who knows how to love a fallen fish with wines, veal and how much you, who knows, and of course that was the consequence that this assembly here, when we came, a group of new Parliamentarians, this younger generation of Parliamentarians, we asked for a business review. It was an audit here. I remember fellow Shuker it contests, what a review, what a gold one this, what a gold. And Cambodia has gold, Albania has gold, Serbia has gold, Bosnia has gold reserves, Slovenia has gold reserves. Where's our gold? I wonder where the gold from our reserves is. Let's say it's the same management of ours, it's funny, I see that the vice president laughs, Croatia is the state, the vice president of the assembly laughs at this, the Croatian state is without gold, gold reserves. So where are the plates you? It's 13, 15, I don't know who's more selling it to the finance ministers, a colleague Shucker or a Lalovec ex-Knowed, or HDZ was more of a gold sale or, I don't know, I'm not going in, but the fact is that 15 tons went off. For what? Who'd she ask? Who decided? Is that protecting monetary policy? And experts say that in the next few years gold 200, 300% will be collected. What are the losses, what are the losses for the state, who's responsible for that? No one. And we're not going to talk about the PR, we're just talking about a fellow parliamentary representative at Raiffeisen's savings-credit cooperatives that was involved before the PR, Macan, that he was, I think that the savings-credit cooperatives were activated, so this isn't precedent, this isn't precedent with this bank now, so this isn't precedent, but we need to react that protection means from these blows that someone lobbying with constitutional judges, that lobbying with the governor. He'll probably send some PR guy to your governor to lobby with you, that you might do some of your activities that you can legally take. When we talk about mastecheum, I'm a little bit over here, I'm curious if we have, how many employees, which is their age, I hear that some up to 60 years, like 65 worked, that they were delivered at 76, that they're admitted to not knowing what contest, in what way. You've made the CNB a special form above parliament. And don't forget he named you through the board here voted on the day she played the game, re-elected the game England-Croatian in Russia at the World Cup to talk less. So it's just, it's just, it's just, it's, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, But you're the one who has to tell the public why Poland, why the Czech Republic, why don't they introduce the EURo? I don't, you say we have too much EUR to do this, like, but that triba hears other experts. Well, you're not the only one and Prime Minister Plenkovic who claims to me here for 5 days that the GDP that I make up, that's a push, yes, I said even less, 5% of GDP means that yearly from abroad from the hints, from those people that he's emigrated to praise here that there's an increased GDP, and then I've moved out the most high-quality people and their families, so we have a huge problem of what GDP growth shows as something great, but in fact it's a catastrophic, long-term disaster, empty RH, there's no labour force, the people who can contribute the most valuable value from the bar to the doctor's science, and there's a lot of money that's going to be the money that's going to be the money that's going to go to the money, and what's going to happen to be the money, so if we're going to import labour, and the empty territory, and there's a lot of questions, and there's going to be, and there's going to be this money that's going to the money that's going to the money that's going to the money that's going to the money, the money, the money, the money that's going to the money, You guys are making fun of each other. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184216	We have one replica of the respected representative Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184217	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Bulj, you said that the gold bars disappeared from the People's Bank, it's serious, as you know, it's a crime and it's a big one, and then you put a little bit in the context of the Croatian banana state, it'll get you out of context, it'll go to sleep, what are you going to say then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184218	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184219	So when I entered my colleague Klisovic's parliament, I ask why the Republic of Croatia has no gold and why gold was sold and who asked the people to sell gold? We're one of the few states that doesn't have a gold reserve, the gold's gone, no one's asked the people, the Republic doesn't have a gram of gold in its vault, here's how much gold is there? As for the banana state, I don't know who's more selling HDZ or SDP's government, I really don't know, but as far as this part of bananas is concerned, if 10, CNB, stability council, financial stability of system companies, if that body saw through its fingers that Agrokor was using 10 to 2012. When you were in power, it seemed to me that it was, the SDP coalition, that he was using 10 billion kunas without cover, that he was paying with ordinary paper, and that it had gone through his fingers to his suppliers, then what it is, is that you're paying billions of kuna on paper now, imagine, that you're paying someone a billion kuna on paper without cover. If that's true, it's a disaster. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184220	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184221	Thank you, Mr. Vujčić, there are no associates, colleagues and colleagues, I, uh, really won't be long since the debate has already been extensive, but I have to say, in my debate I have to say a few things, and I will have a few questions for the governor, so first of all about the EUR colleagues who are having a debate here today are not at all going to introduce EUR-o or not to introduce EUR-o today into society, I think it's not a topic, I think that the Republic of Croatia is wrong about that, maybe I'm wrong about it, and you're right about it now, and that's when we decided to join the EU in the documentation we signed as a country that we're going to introduce the EUR-o, and I don't think at all today, or someone in the inside, it's a question of the moment, and the euro-o is here, and we didn't have that we't have a big deal with our citizens, and that we't really have a big deal, and we't talk about it now, and we't talk about the big time, and we's, so we'll talk about it, so we't talk about the big, and we', so we're gonna talk about the big, so now, and we', and we're gonna talk about the big, and we're gonna talk about the big, and we't talk about the big, and we', and we', and we're gonna talk about now, and we're gonna talk about the big, and we're gonna talk about now, and we're gonna talk about the big, and we', and we', and we', and we're gonna talk about the big, and we're gonna talk about the big about the big about the big about the big, and we', and we', and we're gonna talk about the big, and we're gonna talk about the big, we're gonna talk about the big, and we', and we're gonna talk about the big, and we', and we're gonna talk about the big, and we', and we', and we', and we', and we', and we're gonna talk about the big about the big, we' We now see the same over the past months as Germany is strong, so it has come into, in, into the situation to fall into, into, in, into a new economic crisis and then only made certain reorientations on its market and it has succeeded in avoiding it, the Republic of Croatia cannot, so we are one country that cannot fight there, but one Germany has fallen into a crisis after the introduction of the EUR and all other countries that have done it and that is very likely to happen and the Republic and that is the fact, and now we have to talk about the value of the kuna, so if you listen to our exporters ok, they are the ones who advocate that this course does not go to hand, but in the last year I often talk to them about it, and so the most important thing with them is that they are in the currency, so if you listen to our exporters ok, they are going to listen to this course, but in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact that they know that they are the most of the euro and the euro that they are in which they are in which they are now they are going to see and in terms and in terms of the euro. So, that's what I wanted to say, so the code I listened to, the professors, that maybe I listened, maybe I didn't, so I did, and there in some debates with them, but I need people, so we can't talk about what's best for someone here, and we don't even ask what they think, I mean it, I'm not going to be able to tell myself about the citizens is the best thing that I'm talking about, and I didn't think my opinion is best for someone, so I'm not supposed to talk to them. And what I've been looking at on this part is precisely because the debate is going somehow in that direction, and I need to say it, and on the other hand, the questions I have for, the governor is concerned, you're here in my report, or above all I want to say this, I support the same colleagues who said that maybe before we should discuss these reports, and maybe get ready before that because we're now discussing practically the second half of 2018, the beginning of 2019 in the economy, in the economy, things change so quickly that we're really old data, here today we have this coronaryvirus that nobody knew about a month ago, and it can hardly affect the economy of the world as a whole, which we can't influence and these are some sudden things that we couldn't predict two months ago, and we can't say it in any way and how it's going to be very fast about it's happening to them, and how we're going to be really going to be able to get into the things that we're wrong, and we're really going to do a little bit of the things that things that we's wrong, and we's going to get into the things that we's going to get into the wrong, and then, and we's going into the wrong, and we', and we', and we', and we's going into the wrong, and we', and we's, and we', and we're really, and we're really, and we're really, and we' and we're really, and we're really really going to do really, and we', and we', and we', and we', and we're really going, and we's going, and we're really going, and we', and we're really going, and we's going, and we', and we', and we're really going, and we're really going, and we's going, and we', and we', and we', and we', and we' and we', and we' and we're talking about, and we', and we', and we' and we', and we', and we' and we' and we', and we', and we', and we' and we' is a stable growth of GDP or GDP moving here somewhere, I wrote, between 2.6 and 3.2 now I wonder if it's actually growth or stagnation, if I'm 5. We have a practically flat, flat line, and we don't have any more significant growth, and I'm not saying that we have a change in the structure of GDP growth that is now based on personal consumption, so I feel like you said a little bit here 5 g. We're here somewhere in the line, so I think, I'm looking at it as a certain and stagnation or that this growth with the preconditions that were created two or three years ago. Four-five, it should be a little bit, a little bigger and a little stronger. The second thing when we talk about Agrokor, after the implementation of the settlement of the first year or two days in essence and this 2018, the indicators were good and Agrokor was doing business with profits, but they were frozen full commitments of Agrokor, so the first year after the deal was made, Agrokor didn't have to pay back his obligations, now when he had to, the indicators show, however, that this company is not doing business again, it doesn't exactly get, or it doesn't get, because it can't serve through the business of all the obligations he created and I am now interested in whether Agrokor today is from your point of view as much as you can say, of course, whether he's stable or unstable, or when the state is headed to rescue Agrokor then it's story we're completely Croatian economy, and because now we're interested in, in the positive business of Agrokor in the future, whether the commitments that the Republic has to re-res some of the economy, which is a little more and the larger, even more important, although the fact, the fact, that the fact, the two things in fact, that the two things that the fact, that the two things that have been reduced in fact, the fact, that the fact, the two things that the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, that the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact that the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, that the fact that the fact that the fact, the fact, that the two that the two that the two that the two that the two that the two that the two that the two the two the two that the two that the two that the two the two that the two that the two the two the two the two the two that the two that the two that the two that thetwo The same thing, let's say now that Brexit finally happened, which is the last 3 years. How long has this process taken us all already thought that it might not happen, how much will it affect, on, on, on, on the Croatian economy and monetary policy in the future, and once again I will return to be at the beginning of my debate, and that is the EURo, I asked you last time on the report what will be done by the CNB when the EURo is introduced in the Republic of Croatia, through a few discussions I have been explained that I will actually have an even more important role, but I am not interested in that question now, if you can say that if you have time, but I am interested in what stage from the perspective of the CNB we are now ready to introduce the EUR, or are we ready, to where we have come from, and if you are perhaps the best moment that has to happen? That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184222	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected member of Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184223	Dear Vice President HS. Mr. Djujic, I have to express my disagreement with one part of your debate, so you said it was not a good time for us to discuss whether the EUR or not should be introduced because we signed that the EURo should be introduced, but other EU Member States have signed such an agreement, but it is a matter of time, so the question is right now that our economy is ready for the implementation of the EUR and you yourself have mentioned certain negative connotations of the implementation of the EUR and then the question is how it will affect the economy. As for communication with citizens, and you said it did not communicate with citizens, so the citizens clearly said over 50% in the polls that they are against the introduction of the current EUR, so that is, that is, the fact and that is why the issue is being raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184224	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184225	I agree with your replica, I have made it clear that it is not the time for us to discuss whether we are going to introduce the euro or not, not that it is not a moment but it is a groundless debate because we have committed ourselves to introducing it and that is a fact and what we need to discuss is what you said later, when it is the moment and when it is best for us as a state to do so. And that's the subject of the debate, and that's what needs to be discussed, and it's precisely because of all of these effects, and what's negative, what's positive, what's negative, and what's best to do and what's the models, let's say the CNB would be good at that moment to introduce the euro, maybe to fix up quite early that course that's going to be transitional, so that the prices are up already in that course, that people can prepare themselves for that, let's say all of the models that we need to talk about. That's it. I'm on the citizens' side, actually, on the note of Professor O'Donnell. Lovrinovic said that I talked to Bag, then that's why I recommended that I talk to everyone, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184226	The next replica is the respected representative of Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184227	Dear fellow Djujic, you are unequivocal for the introduction of the euro, you are already looking for an announcement of the conversion course, etc., it is quite clear that you want it, I find it a little odd that you in the SDP are making an opposition and your candidate for the president, Mr Milanovic, said in the election campaign "Listen, I am for the kuna, as it is, ours." So what you in the SDP, I don't really know what you want, whether you're divided, you're right, they signed that, but it doesn't say anywhere when, you understand, it's signed by both the Czech Republic and Hungary and Poland, Romania, it doesn't come to mind, we're not ready for real, and they had to. Be careful, this governor was given the mandate to achieve the interests of Prime Minister Plenkovic in Brussels, and then they had to find someone from the economy, which is Mr. Bago, the head of the exporter who also needs a mandate there, according to this, an ideal combination and that society of other economists walking around Croatia together, they spread the story and only one poll says that citizens want to introduce it, it is a poll commissioned by the CNB and paid for, see, deny it if not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184228	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184229	Well, for starters, I'm going to deny you that I'm not in favour of unequivocally introducing the euro, so you obviously don't hear what I'm saying or you don't understand what I'm saying. ... Well, of course I'm asking, it's responsible behavior, in my opinion. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184230	.../Intruder Reiner: Please don't throw away, colleague Lovrinović./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184231	In my opinion, it is responsible for behaviour and responsible policy to seek a course of conversion or to prepare for the introduction of the euro. I'm not talking, you've been performing all along, you're contradictory, Professor. I have to tell you that. You first say we need not to introduce the euro and then later talks should find the most convenient moment because Poland, Slovakia and other countries have committed themselves but are not introducing it yet because it is not their time. So what are you talking about? Do you want to introduce or postpone? I can't understand that because you deny yourself in the same sentence. So me, it doesn't matter, we're bound to introduce him. And that's what I'm saying, we should talk about when that moment is, that means it's in a year, days, five who says Plenkovic, maybe in 20 years, maybe 30, but it's not the subject of us not introducing him, it's not the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184232	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184233	Thank you very much, Vice President. So there is no reflection in the SDP around the euro. And this is a good time to discuss the euro. We are de facto in the election year, parliamentary elections are coming and every serious party must have a clear position on the euro. To have a clear position, it is perfectly legitimate to ask these questions asked by fellow Djujic. Some responses are still unclear and must be clarified before the party, such as the SDP, brings a final position. In principle, yes, we are for the euro and Croatia has shown in principle its sovereign will to introduce the euro but we have not introduced it. And it doesn't mean we're bringing him in tomorrow. We will introduce him at that point at least as far as the SDP is concerned, when we are absolutely sure that it is in the interest of the Croatian economy and the state. Oh, yeah, the exporters are very complaining about their incompetence and the course... in kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184234	Thank you, Vice President. That is exactly how my colleague Klisovic, and it is good that this is being discussed, and I am just thinking about this all the time, that the responsible policy has been discussed in time and in time to seek a course of conversion in order not to experience the shock because, along with this demand in time of year, two, three or five years before the introduction of the euro, according to all the indicators of all the countries that did this before us, we will then enter the recession and that is it. But you need to be responsible and start getting ready in time because it's inevitable or in time to talk about it but talk about when it's the best time for our country and for our citizens to get into that process but I just said that it was missed today, we're gonna give it up and we're never going to introduce the euro. So we can't do that, so we can, if V. Britain comes out of the EU, comes out of everything, gives up all the documents, now it's just a question, maybe it happens one day, I don't even say it, but now is the time that the position is the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184235	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184236	I am pleased that you have mentioned our obligation, or our accession negotiations concerning the introduction of the euro, and that we as a serious state and government who have been and who will be, know exactly what to do and also the CNB and the new harmonisation and the Law on Credit Institutions and the CNB, so all the procedures that this government and the future government need to implement and find the best solution to the introduction of the euro. Here's what I know would now be an ideal deadline, the fastest deadline that could happen, possibly in 2023, which means it will be, but we certainly have to take care of how we enter and which course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184237	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184238	Well, that's right, it's not a harmless thing either it's a game and there's a lot of work and there's a lot of law and there's a lot of preparation to do to get the better and the more ready it gets into it. That's why I asked the governor at which stage we're from your sight today, because again a year ago since this report was applied, there may have been another view today. Maybe the 2023 we're talking about will be some whole other dimension. Who knows what could happen. There are many things that cannot be affected, but in time it is necessary to prepare and to approach and speak responsibly. So there's one story for voters, one of these is some kind of populist thing, but the other is a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184239	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed governor of the CNB will say something about the questions you've asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184240	Yes, thank you very much for those of you who I have talked about many times the type of cooperatives, exchanges, cooks, I will perhaps do something more in the final word, but only on this issue of EUR which is important, of course, and current. If the question is, then yes, we have already made a decision that we will introduce the EURo and the referendum on this was whether we have already committed ourselves to it. If the timing issue is when to introduce the EURo, then I just wanted to say that Croatia is at this point per degree of real convergence towards EU countries more advanced than any transition country that has so far introduced the EURo at the time it entered the course mechanism except Slovenia. Of all the others at this point, we are at a higher level of real convergence if you're wondering if we're ready at this point. Yes, if they were ready, we are even more ready, I say, except for Slovenia which had a higher GDP per capital measured by the parity of purchasing power. Just as I said, we are at this point the smallest EU country that has not introduced the EUR, and we are also more important than that the EU's most Euro-oriented country that has not introduced the EUR, and this very high level of euroisation makes the need introduced by the euro bigger and makes the benefits that we will benefit from the introduction of the EUR larger, which then answers the question why some other countries have not decided to do so, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary or Poland. Because of their importance, the level of euroisation is significantly lower than in Croatia. And why is it lower than in Croatia? It is lower than in Croatia because it does not save, they do not have a tradition of saving in foreign currency. And why do we have a tradition of saving in foreign currency? This comes primarily from the 1980s when people started saving in German March because the Central Bank of Yugoslavia at the time led a continuous policy of devaluation of the domestic exchange rate to help exporters earning the savings of citizens who decided it was better to save on the German mark. And that's why we have and, and now I'm coming back to some previous questions, which is why we have a currency clause. In 1994, the Council introduced a currency clause, not a central bank, in order to protect at a time of high inflation and continued devaluation of those who had claims in foreign currency and to allow loans at a lower interest rate to be paid at the end of the line. So when you have a situation like this, then the interest rates are much higher, and that's again the consequence of the fact that most of the savings are in foreign currency. So it has nothing to do with the central bank's policy, it has nothing to do with the central bank's decision, it has to do with bad devaluation policies that haven't helped exporters in the past, but has led to citizens losing confidence in their own currency and mostly saving in the German March. When we became an independent state, 91% of the savings in banks were in German March. And that's why we have a currency clause, and that's why we have this high rate of euroisation, and that's why we're going to be the country that will benefit most from getting into the European Monetary Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184241	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184242	Thank you very much. I just want to make more contact, you told Mr. Governor that we are the most ready to tell the country of the countries that previously introduced us, which is logical, given that there is a 20-year experience behind us, and that is exactly what we need to learn from the mistakes they had before or not by mistakes, but by the effects that have happened to the countries that previously introduced the EUR-o. And when we talk, when we like to compare with Poland, with the Czech Republic, with Hungary, we are a country that has more imports than exports still. So we have this kind of economy. The other thing is we're a small-market country, with a small population, so we can compare in some things with Poland, but it's a country of 20 million inhabitants and a huge market. And it's still some difference and it's not that simple, and it can only be said so easily they're introduced, they're not. They have their own market strong enough to be able to withstand much bigger blows Let's say we can't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184243	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184244	It's just, the fact that imports, exports, we have bigger imports of goods than exports, but we have larger exports of services, when we add up exports of goods and services, then at this point we have bigger exports than imports, we have surpluses in the current balance of payments account. As for the exporters themselves, we talk to them all the time. Therefore, there is one exporter who would like to have a weaker rate, but there is a group of exporters and these are exporters who are currently the fastest export growth that says that they are not at all bothered by the course and that the rate as we have at all is not a factor in their exports. Let's say the fastest growing industry in Croatia is an exporting IT sector that says it's not their problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184245	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184246	Dear Governor, I cannot trust my ears and my ears. So what I hear from you saying, the whole time you're there, so the CNB is working on a total euroisation strategy to tell us again, we've moved that kuna of yours now we need to see the EUR. So it was politics. I was in the Czech Republic before the summer, and I talked to Hungary about the same money in the central bank, when I asked them, so you're more ready, you claim, be careful that it's a simple nebulosis, that we're more realistically prepared for the EUR-o than you understand, so simply, you don't believe it anymore. When I asked them why you don't introduce them they have far greater export coverage, healthier economy and so on? They just smiled and said, so listen to why we change horses that are fast and they get what's called racing. Therefore, stop misinforming the Croatian public, do your job, and one day everyone will have to pay bills for what he did.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184247	The Honorable Governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184248	Now I must be very careful not to offend you again. I don't know how to tell you, what I said are facts. So at this point in time, Croatia is the closest to the EU countries to all the transition countries that have introduced the euro. If you're saying otherwise, then we should show it somehow. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184249	The next is the replica of the respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184250	You're telling the governor that Croatia has been euroed, that savings are mostly in the euro, is that perhaps the effect of these evicted people? I'm going to repeat 6% of GDP, 6th of GDP, that's 20 billion kuna and more, if they're saving in euro, is that maybe the effect of that savings because people are earning in euro there? So we've wasted these people out there making money and now they're saving and it's showing up that way. I think the tribal would be a broad debate about the Kuna. One of the main tasks when creating an independent Croatia was the rifle on the Croatian shoulder and the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. So not only should we look at it on that sentimental side, but it seems to me that we're getting everything out, all of these independent Croatian adjuts without some arguments of professional reasoned debates that can't happen in Poland, the Czech Republic, I don't know Sweden, Denmark that don't accept the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184251	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184252	I can only invite you once more what we have and have already made all the MPs at the CNB for a constructive debate and any questions, so we have sent written calls, part of the MPs have been in the CNB and I call on everyone who wants to come, we are always open to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184253	The last replica is the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184254	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Governor. I think we should turn the saw upside down in this House. Where would Croatia be today if we hadn't become an EU member in 2013? How many unemployed today, what would our average salary be, what would be the situation with the economy, and what would Croatia's potential be? So to become an EU member, it is easy to lamentate those who were in some kind of thick shade at the time of the EU accession negotiations, Croatia has received something, and has also committed itself to something. Now if you commit yourself to something, it used to be enough for people to give a word or give a hand, and in this case some kind of document was signed. We have signed certain documents and we can discuss the provisions of these documents, but we have to argue some things that simply don't stand. However, I think we should all just be happy that, after what has been happening in recent years, Croatia is practically meeting almost all the master criteria for entering the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184255	The Honorable Governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184256	For several years Croatia has been meeting all the master criteria and all the forecasts we and the European Commission and the IMF and the private sector, we will meet all the master criteria in the coming years, which obviously makes us the same country ready to enter the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184257	The next individual debate will be Stjepan Curaj's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184258	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will only look back at half-yearly financial status information, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2019. So what exactly are we discussing? About statistics or concrete facts where we are going and where we were in the first half of 2019, where we were actually to know what trends are, there is 2018 and where we are going, not to the euro, nothing else, but we will come to that too. So he says that in the first half of 2019, the annual real GDP growth of 3.1% contributed to the highest consumption of households and gross investment in fixed capital, then further says employment was higher by 2.3%, the average nominal gross earnings increased by 3.8%, if we look at the same period of the previous year, consumer price inflation slowed from 0.8 in 2018 to 0.8 in June 2019, etc. Basic inflation has grown slightly, and there we can find a series of justifications or arguments. Absolutely the data that are extremely concrete, which are important and which are primarily important for all macroeconomic movements and for the economic movements of our overall economy. Here's a course of kuna, let's say at the end of June 2019, it was 7.39, etc., etc. The number of credit institutions, says net revenues from EU budget transactions have increased significantly, means that we absorb funds, how we use them. For example, in the first half of 2019, the profit of banks was 3.8 billion kuna, which is a 10% increase, and here we see which are credit activities, etc., etc. And then we come to a debate about the euro. Otherwise, one of the main objectives of the main objective of all central banks is to maintain price stability, regulation of generally credit activities and liquidity of banks, etc., I think that through the instruments, this is also achieved, one of those is exchange rate stability. Then when we get to the stability of the course then we can get to the euro and then actually I don't see that general topic for discussion. We practically have the euro in Croatia today. So there aren't some pretentious for sovereignty for some own currency, for some national charge, we don't give our own, that people like to hear us fight for ourselves, for our kuna, for our currency because we're real Croats. No, who's the real Croat? Start picking up property cards. Who's got savings in what they have savings in? Everyone in the euro. Whoever has it is more or less in the euro. I'm not just talking here, I'm talking about our citizens buying apartments, where currency is appreciated when you talk to someone, what square, nobody knows, what average prices of squares in Zagreb are in kunas, but in EUR we all know anywhere else. When we sell a car or buy a car, in which, in which we express it, in kunas, go to Snooker, what it says there, they recalculate, and in EUR again, when, when we talk about the coverage of the national currency, again and the reserves are EUR's, we all bear all the risks of that currency, absolutely everything, practically we have it, which are our benefits, we don't have. Some of the benfits we will get for sure, fellow Djujic said it was inevitable, just going back to those, those negativity of the introduction of the EUR, except for that you probably mentioned, inflation and conversion costs, that inflation of 0.2-0.3% were recorded, the cost of conversion to 0.5% of GDP, but like all countries that introduced the EUR-a-crisis, given that there was a global crisis and those countries that did not introduce the EUR-a-crisis, so we can say that even those who did not actually come to the crisis did not, therefore, some reason, when we have, and we are talking about this savings, means 75% of savings is in EUR means all citizens, not only here in the assembly but also all those who have and can save, I'm not saying that there are many. By introducing EUR, we eliminate the currency risk which directly affects the rate of interest, the borrowing, our citizens, we do not have a risk of appreciation, of depreciation, of investment investments, of lower transaction costs, of thinking about inflation etc., etc., so one education needs to be known to citizens, but above all all what citizens already know is there, called the kuna, the EUR-o or somehow otherwise, or fortunately, whatever we take, it is a fact, it is the present state. The governor said why it was like that, we had hyperinflation in the '80s, we all remember that Markovic Yugoslavia, etc., even we younger and thonging what this brand would say on the markets, etc. While there was no order and of course there was another thing that contributed to the currency clause and turning into foreign currency was the war to be understood, it wasn't the governor mentioned, meaning war events and uncertainty I think it's absolutely one of the main reasons if not the legacy of the former state, so all the discussions about it shouldn't be harmful all, we should be aware that we choose the moment and the way and the mechanism and the way that we're going to regulate that final course we're going to make that conversation and that's all the point of the debate that we need to be. And that I don't know what will happen to us when we enter, not that we already have the EUR-o today, unfortunately I say, or fortunately, and everything about it and in it we negotiate, we negotiate, we talk, we still lack that even wages are still expressed in the euro and then we will really be euro-speaked maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184259	Thank you, we have a replica of the esteemed Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184260	We have because my colleague mentioned this first I have to correct an incorrect quote, we don't have EUR today because in order to have a full EUR-o then you could, you have to pay the power in EUR in stores, we still don't have that, you're right that everything and when we give ads or something we sell in EUR and squares that's true. When you mentioned that all the countries that introduced the EUR have gone into a crisis that I said, I said and that's a fact, but I didn't say it in the context that we don't need to introduce the EUR, but that it follows us, and that we need to prepare for it to go as painlessly as possible, and now the global crisis, everyone had, look, it's a fact and Germany when it introduced EURo had consequences, and we just need to figure out examples and, and we need to take measures how to do it, and I'm not going to say it now, so the word can be best waited, so when the crisis is so and so we're in crisis, so to introduce it, not because it would be even worse, but it should be responsible to talk about it. And then you should see when it's the best time. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184261	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184262	If I had said more figuratively, given all the living things that follow us in the EUR and savings and I don't know, the external trade exchange or the Eurozone 60% of the total trade exchange, etc., so we share the fate of the Eurozone, we can't escape from it whether we want to be in the EU or not, we share it, and today we're not the EU member again, we would share the same fate of the Eurozone precisely because of that currency, because of the reserve, because of the mentality of ours, because of the mentality of whether we all ran away from that security, that's the safe still, meaning that it's the currency in which it replaced simply the German mark and it's in our mentality, we wanted to, we didn't want to admit, we had some nationalist initiatives, wanted to collect points or not to collect points, but unfortunately, the biggest Croats in EUR, pay in the euro, we're talking, we're just saying that we're going to buy this and we're going to be in the euro that we're going to be more of theeuro. It'll be as good for us as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184263	Thank you very much, the next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so now we're going to go to the final, first respected representative Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Living Wall Club and change Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184265	No, no, on behalf of the club you speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184266	Thank you, Vice President, here I want to finally address the Party We will change Croatia, it is a serious issue, we are talking about monetary policy and financial stability, the CNB, I want to sum up the views in front of the Party We will change Croatia and find that we, that this situation is far from stability, we have a fundamental imbalance as it is called the IMF in the balance of payments, we have a fundamental imbalance in external trade, that this situation is said to cover us, ongoing, current transactions, income from tourism, don't let God let just one year something happen, and we are the most dependent, we are the most dependent country on tourism in the whole EU, so this policy leads to a breakdown, let this be and remain written, we understand that people who came from the CNB have to defend what they say, because we are the most important country on tourism in the whole of the EU, so we are well known right now that all the results in Croatia's policy, so that we have to be true. So it's all a question of why someone came to this assembly here, whether to defend their positions, their parties or their interest groups or came to represent the interests of citizens. Many, why a propaganda action is being conducted for the EUR, the EUR is political issues, which, long ago, is not an economic issue, those who want more information on the EUR look at the literature why Denmark does not want, one of the most developed does not introduce Sweden, so they should be first, no, smart countries. Why Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, and even Romania don't want to, we see how Greece has engulfed dear citizens, they want to put us on a fast train to Greece, and then when you get in, it's predicted there's no going out, you know, it's a one-way ticket. And some say Germany also suffers, ma Germany will always benefit the most from it, if, I don't have time to talk about it too much in 5 minutes, but I refer you to the video contribution that I recorded in half, one half year ago on YouTube about that EURo money without a state, it lasts a little bit long about 70 minutes, meaning consistent and clear, who wants to be informed, in response to this propaganda campaign of the government and the CNB and people will see it more and more, there are arguments, you can't still 70 minutes of stupidity and jokes talk, meaning a typical academic lecture about it. In this sense we need to get out of these delusions, we CNB have to return under democratic control, you who follow or do not follow, Sweden is now making a change of the law on their central bank where they will enter again the state audit, introduce additional mandates why they are for, are changed and in the Statute of the European Central Bank, but here is saying one truth, here the media does not follow us out of opposition, do not follow what is new in science, we are selling propaganda here, but this will not, sorry that the Croatian people and citizens have to suffer, it still seems to have to have to suffer for at least one time until the parliamentary elections and it has to be interrupted and therefore we, we have not been able to endure this, we have submitted a criminal application against the CNB because of the case of Swiss Franak, because of the RBA Saving Credit Cooperatives, these people are sick, we are sick, we are going to stay on this line with the Croatian people, we have to change our credit, we have been able to defend ourselves, we have to defend ourselves, we have to defend ourselves from the people, we have to defend ourselves, and the people who have the country who have been safe country, who have been safe, and the people who have become free of this country of our country, and the country, and the country of our country, who have to stay, and the country, who have to stay, who have to go to go to stay, in the country, in the country, in the country, and the country, and the country, and in the country, in the country, in the countrys, we have to go to get to stay to go back to go back to go back to go back to go back to go back to the way. Dear citizens, I invite you to a democratic revolution in the Republic of Croatia, a second country war to deal with all those who have ruined the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184267	The next club will be the independent youth list, which will be finally spoken by the respected representative of the Shkybol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184268	Thank you, Vice President HS. Here, I can see that a closer ideological topic, the Law on Exploitation, so I see that the Assembly has been filled, HDZs have also come, the SDPs have also come, but when discussing important issues such as economic issues, such as monetary policy, of which citizens have the most benefit, and in this context of the damage, then there are only a few parliamentary MPs who are critical about themselves and who are discussing here in the assembly, and that is an indicator of the political and social situation, it is actually an indicator of the policy that is being implemented in the Republic. Citizens must know that on these topics they share, that these are not topics that are actually important in the context of existential reasons, and these are topics that also the media potential, not only these political structures, but as I said at the beginning. In the previous debate, the worse the economic situation, the less people will look at these topics, and simply there will be more protests, and the protest options will grow. But what I had to reach out to, the governor of the National Bank isn't here right now, he said the loans at the RBA cooperative were signed in Austria, so you said that all that work was done in Austria... Ha, look you said, sir, don't get in on me means as I speak, please Vice President of the Assembly to warn the governor, you said that people went to Austria and that you don't really have any responsibility but that's the question of the Austrian state, that's what you said, and the Croatian government was bringing the law here to HS because it was happening in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] These Austrian cooperatives had intermediaries, these intermediaries were citizens, i.e. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia and they, together with these Austrian meshetars, have taken interest in our citizens, and that is a fact, we have even powerful verdicts, we have a lot of evidence, the show has checked out many shows on the subject where people have simply testified and so many know it is. However, you avoid it and the question arises why. So, in whose interest do you make such statements? But the indications suggest that you are actually working for the interests of these foreign bankers because of this same attack on the constitutional order regarding Raiffeisen Bank. You said it like that because of your conversation with the President of Raiffeisen Bank, so he resigned. But it's misinformation, it's manipulation. We saw that he recently resigned as well as president of the Board of Zagreb Banks. Maybe that's where you're going, isn't that where he resigns? However, we will follow closely what I promise you, and we will closely monitor what will be the solution of the Croatian National Bank regarding Raiffeisen Bank and attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. I promise you that we will follow closely. And I must tell Mr. Vujčić when it was passed in the Croatian Parliament of the Law on Vulnerabilities then your colleague sitting next to you Mr. Bojan Fras is the day before the law was passed, Mr. Frass, you found it as some of the objections in the law that I proposed in the Croatian Parliament, and you knew long before the content of the law itself. The day before the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament, you intervened to postpone the law and actually gave time to lobby so that the law would not go. You from the Croatian National Bank who should protect the interests of Croatian citizens do such things. But look, what I'm about to tell you, that story isn't gonna end the way you thought it would. This story will not end as you thought, and while I am here in this Croatian Assembly I will fight for Croatian citizens and these things will come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184269	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Mosta and the Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Bulj will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184270	Thank you very much. The governor is the person of the Croatian National Bank who should protect monetary policy, protect the interests of citizens, the economy, safeguard stability. However, the Croatian non-national bank absolutely did nothing. I didn't get that answer. I have not received a number of answers that I have asked as a representative and my colleagues who have performed here and asked questions not only now, but have been repeating the question for years. You simply coordinate your current Croatian National Bank policy with the current prime minister. So before, and now with the former prime minister in the act and Emil Tedeshi, you've played the tapes, and now you're running that policy. I don't choose anyone's friends, but don't implement the policy imposed on you by the Prime Minister. You must protect, you were appointed by the Parliament, appointed by the Parliament, you must protect the Croatian interests and interests of the citizens. It's unthinkable for me for a parliamentary representative to say just before, thanking the HNS governor's policy, Mr. Curaj, who says, "What the hell is nationalistic." What is he talking about? So, mentioning the Croatian Kuna that it's nationalism? If that's the case, I'm a nationalist and what a problem. What's the problem being? I mean I can't even understand the logic of thinking to the governor how they infiltrate it, everyone saves in euro. Yeah, yeah. You've driven everyone to make a living in Germany, Ireland. I don't know where they didn't go. So why Poland, if we will, why doesn't Poland introduce the euro, Denmark, the Czech Republic? Why? I'm a citizen, and above all, I'm interested in why gold is sold 15 tons of gold? I'll be interested in that. I've been listening as an agent, I've asked. That's what I'm interested in. Is this a national interest that Albania, Cambodia, Bulgaria, all have gold reserves in the Croatian National Bank after Croatia? And you don't know who sold it anymore, or when he was Minister Schucker or when he was SDP. Who sold the gold? Where's the gold? Who gave you the right? Who gave you the right? Who gave you the right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184271	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184272	Come down and enjoy yourself. Don't be nervous. Shucker's a little nervous. You sold gold, and Croatia... you sold gold, and you didn't ask the people. You didn't ask the people. Let's move on. So to the governor, I expect you to answer me, which is why 10 billion kunas have been used by a company of 10 billion kunas, was used with 10 billion note paper without cover. So where was Croatia? It's a blow to financial stability. It's a direct blow to financial stability. So thousands of questions are being asked. We don't get answers. Saving credit cooperatives, we've passed the law unanimously here, not by two-thirds of the majority but by the Constitution, it's not respected. So that decision is not respected. The Croatian National Bank does not hold a stance on the impact on constitutional order, and before it was... the impact on the Saving Credit Cooperatives Raiffeisen where the PRs helped perform and represent these savings credit cooperatives that even now the PRs are asking for the PR to lobby at the Constitutional Court. You've made your point, but what measures have you taken? I'm interested in what measures you've taken. The Croatian state has its own creation. I mentioned the meaning in the beginning that the goal was once the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket was counted on the currency to open the debate wide, to tell Lovrinović or prof. Lovrinović or I don't know who you are – you are fools, you know nothing – but a broad debate. We are not invited to the assembly representatives, but to have a public debate in the media to be one of those who speak the reasons why not, and another page why introduce the euro, so that the people can decide. Or give the possibility of what is most sacred to the people saying afterwards with a referendum on whether or not it's for that. So let's make it possible, give it a chance. I'd like to ask you again to come out and answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184273	The Honorable counsel Shuker has raised a breach of his rules of procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184274	Yes, article 238 was injured and you had to act as chairman. The Croatian state and everything happens on the basis of certain papers. And so what Mr. Bulj is saying is all the documentation in the Croatian National Bank. So this kind of thing is incorrect, but it doesn't matter what it says, it matters who says it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184275	Thank you very much. I estimate there's no injured Rules of Procedure after all. People here say things, smart and stupid things, truth and false things. So I'm not the one to judge whether something's smart or stupid or true or it's just a lie. It's a democracy, so anyone can say what they want to do to a border. He mustn't insult anyone else, of course. The next Club of Representatives will be Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will finally speak on behalf of the club, the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184276	Here, I'll just take a minute. Actually, colleague Marin Schibola asked me to say something. I had no intention. But here's what I'm gonna say at first. Regardless of what we had in the Parliament or in the state, I consider a position for the euro or against the euro, and I suppose you agree with me that a reasoned debate should be held in the Croatian Parliament, but not that this small door is broken over the knee of the euro and that no one in the Croatian Parliament has wondered whether we were for it or not. And it wasn't a conversation, Mr. Shucker, it wasn't. So when we gave support to the government, we gave the euro as well? That's all we can say. But okay. I'm here for a re-debate so that people can manifest themselves in HDZ, and those in the SDP, and we Sovereigns and Mosta people can say what they think of the euro. So that's one thing. And now as for Mr. Scybol, that's how it comes now, the law that the SDPs proposed on the abortion. There are various topics in life that are important. I care about ideology, I care about light surveillance. I know it matters to you, too, no matter what you say. So each topic is important and it is economic, financial and ideological. I'd even supplement a little of what I'm saying people didn't go to war and die for their country for retirement, for example. My colleague Bulj, but because of ideological world surveillance, something is still more important than the finances themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184277	Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the respected governor of the Croatian National Bank, Boris Vujcic, will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184278	Thank you very much. Here, I'll try to get through some of these things right now. Now a lot of these things I've already said in the Parliament, I've answered, let's just say gold that happened sales almost 20 years ago, so the governor who was governor at the time explained it several times. I remember talking about that at least once in the Parliament. So these are questions from 20 years ago. But since I have half now I can do it again. So this happened at a time when other central banks sold gold, when the price of gold went down, and the situation with gold is such that it is to the greatest extent when you have gold essentially one speculative kind of property. For what? Because you don't get any donations on her and you still have to pay someone to keep it safe. That gold wasn't even here. It was abroad and you have to pay for someone to keep it where it is. And now I've calculated even once here when it was a question in the Parliament, I don't remember whether you asked it, but to get much less money from the Croatian National Bank as a seniorage of income that is allocated to the Ministry of Finance that we kept that gold. Why? Because you have to work on that gold so-called. "mark to market" at the end of the year depending on where the price of gold affects the result of the Croatian National Bank. And when we calculated it as if we had never sold the "mark to market" over all those years, it turned out that it wouldn't be worth it if we had kept it. So we've actually been better off because it's been sold. And I'm saying, then it was 20 years ago, and a lot of people were doing it then, like, Bank of England was selling a lot of gold at that time. Chef, I've already answered that question several times. So the cook is one very good thing because it appeared in the paper when we were essentially doing what's called outsorcing. We actually gave those services to an outside company. That's what the government tried to do at one point, so it failed. And by doing so, we reduced the cost that anyone can determine very easily that the kitchen costs have fallen with this outsorcing. As for the stock exchange of Agrokor, and I've already answered that, but let me re-response. So the bonds issued by Agrokor have nothing to do with the Croatian National Bank. Now you can sign the bill to the Honorable counsel Shucker and he can sign it for you. When you come out here, you go to the National Journal, buy a note, sign a note and give it to him, and it has absolutely nothing to do with the Croatian National Bank. Absolutely. But it has nothing to do with us. It's a private business between you two. Under all the laws that we must adhere to, which this Parliament has passed, it has nothing to do with the Croatian National Bank, and we have nothing to do with it. [[Don't throw it out of the bench. So let's... finally shut up...]] It's just a private business between you and it was a private business with which he had nothing to do with the CNB. What was the question of Djujic's representative, which is now with the company, is basically now the new Forte firm. I have to say, at this point, we're not following it so closely. Our focus was when it had an impact on financial stability. And Agrokor had an impact on financial stability when domestic banks were strongly exposed to Agrokor. And we were then reducing the banks' exposure to Agrokor so that if there was bankruptcy of Agrokor, what eventually happened to the financial system would remain stable. And we managed to do that, and that's how we did that part of our job. It is now a company that is in the hands of mostly foreign owners who, as far as I can see, works this way relatively stable, but it is still the most important individual company in Croatia with the most employees, with the biggest incomes and of course it doesn't matter what happens in the future. But at this point it seems from our perspective quite stable. But from our perspective, since the exposure of domestic banks to this company is now a small one, it poses no longer any risk in terms of the work we do. As far as RBA cooperatives are concerned, again I've said it myself, we haven't said it the first time that the debate was in this House too many years ago it's cooperatives or whatever you want, banks, call them what you want that aren't licensed by the Croatian National Bank. If they're not licensed, we can't control them. So that's the law again passed by the Croatian Parliament. And there was no business for the Croatian National Bank. As for the euro, there were a lot of questions. A currency clause I've told you before. The surplus on the current balance of payments he exists. Consumer optimism has been asked not to see consumer optimism as we arrive. So, there is a standardised questionnaire that is standardised not only in Croatia at European Union level to investigate consumer business optimism and it is simply the result of a survey that shows that it is at this point at some historic maximum. As for the euro, I would only repeat that Croatia has no reason to think that by entering the euro zone Croatia will come into recession or that growth will slow down. If, therefore, everything else is kept constant after entering the euro zone, it will be an additional boost to the growth of the Croatian economy as it was to join the European Union. If we had not entered the European Union it would certainly not have increased double-digitally and exports of Croatia, it would not have given Croatia access to the European Union market and the recovery would have been significantly slower than we have seen since its entry into the European Union. All research shows that the countries that entered the euro zone have again benefited from entering the euro zone in a constant manner. What needs to be taken care of, however, is that this entry into the euro zone because the country's risk is falling, which is why interest rates are falling, the rating is growing, it has happened in all countries, does not lead to excessive borrowing. That's what happened to Greece, for example. That's the Greek script. However, if we lead a responsible monetary and fiscal policy, then monetary policy will be common. So the main policy is fiscal policy. That's not gonna happen. In addition, there are a number of fuses introduced at European Union level at the moment after the crisis that need to be controlled that such things that have happened with Greece do not occur. For example, when Greece entered the European Monetary Union, as the risk premium on Greece's debt fell strongly, their interest rates decreased, it raised its social consumption from 2001 when they entered the monetary union by 2008 it meant only 8 years to Germany. And that, of course, led to the fact that the debt had become too high because it could only be made out of debt, debt. But since borrowing was cheap suddenly they set out to borrow, to borrow, because the nominal GDP growth rate was quite high, investors were although not all investors, primarily European investors, and this from northern Europe were willing to lend money to Greece and Greece had simply accumulated so much debt that at the time of the recession, when that nominal GDP growth rate fell, everyone realised at one point that Greece had no capacity to repay that debt. So that's a mistake. It's some kind of risk that can happen. However, it will not happen to a country that runs a responsible fiscal policy. If Croatia will lead a responsible fiscal policy, there is no such danger. However, if Croatia remains outside the euro zone, if it does not introduce the euro and conduct an irresponsible fiscal policy, we will again have a problem. So it's either us or not, we have to run a responsible fiscal policy. In addition, by entering the monetary union, I stress that, we give up relatively little sovereignty. All key mechanisms of future Croatian growth remain in our hands. So tax policy, fiscal policy, and health policy, and pension system policy, and the judiciary, and education, and the state administration and everything that makes business climate easier, better or worse everything about it doesn't say anything about Brussels or Frankfurt. All this is decided here in the Croatian government and in the Croatian Parliament. And that's exactly why some countries are successful and others aren't, not the fact that they introduced the euro or not. This is exactly the difference between countries because in the same euro area that we are entering, you have countries like Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and countries like Greece, Italy, Portugal that only some are listed that are neither roughly similar nor the same and that differ significantly at their potential growth rates, and at their external vulnerability, and by the structure of the economy. Why? Because different uses all these things that are tight in national hands. We, when we entered the European Union, said it then as the deputy chief negotiator, did not give up much economic sovereignty. It just seems we've given up something important. We're basically what? Four freedoms. Freedom of movement of goods, people, services, capital. If you look at how effectively the customs rate decreased after we entered the European Union. Very little. If you look at what happened to freedom of movement of capital, we only had two capital controls. Opening residence accounts abroad and short-term funding for non-residents. We removed both of them, nothing happened. If you look at the freedom of movement of people, most countries have kept derogation in the movement of our workforce. So basically everything that's happened, what's only important is what happened if you look at the economics that we had to adopt a European subsidy policy that has a limit and that has to be horizontal, not vertical as we had it. Let's just say they didn't tell us we had to sell shipyards, privatize. The only thing they said was that we need to bring subsidies to the level and structure allowed by the European Union's policy. Everything else remains in Croatian hands. If you look at monetary policy independence, there was talk about the expansion of monetary policy. I think that's what Lalovac was talking about. So, the very high expansion of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. If Croatia wants to maintain independence, what would that mean? That if we want to, we can run a different policy than the European Central Bank. What would that mean? This would mean that we say inflation is growing in Croatia and the Croatian National Bank wants to tighten monetary policy. How would you do that to me? We lift... the rate. And what's going to happen? Nothing. The banks will leave because we are in the European Union, there is freedom of movement of capital and will be refinanced in the euro area at the European Central Bank to bring capital to Croatia and the Croatian National Bank will simply have to buy these euro and create Kunska liquidity. So what seems to be independence is essentially not there. She's significantly reduced. So the degree of freedom for an independent monetary policy under these conditions is very low. Every small country, every small central bank. That's what all my colleagues know. When an elephant is showered and the little animals around it are wet and there's no way to avoid it. We can pretend to have some kind of independence and do something. In reality, we don't have these mechanisms. And then we have all these exchange rate risks due to high Euroisation, because we have 500 billion kunas of debt denominated in the euro. It's a huge exchange risk. I say that the kuna deprives us 10% of Croatia is 50 billion kunas immediately longer and it is a huge risk and everyone is aware of it. Investors are aware of it and rating agencies are aware of it and all this is reflected in the price of our borrowing. And why do we have that when on the other hand we don't have some kind of benefit from the independence of monetary policy. We cannot do what we want with this huge, second largest central bank in the world of the ECB that is right next to us and where banks have direct access to the European Central Bank already have it. Before the 2008 crisis, as the Croatian National Bank, we were given awards and recognitions to preserve the stability of the Croatian economy by introducing capital controls. We taxed banks every euro they brought to Croatia with 55%. They had to lay 55 cents of each euro that entered Croatia at the expense of the Croatian National Bank, which bears a zero interest rate. And so we kept it from being overly capitalised and not being so in charge of getting into a crisis that we had to go into an arrangement with the IMF like a lot of countries had to after the crisis, etc. But today we have more to do with it. We don't have that at our disposal anymore. We are simply part of the European Union and you have the freedom to move capital, you have banks that work throughout the European Union and that all have access to practically the European Central Bank. And now pretend that we God knows what we'll keep if we don't get into the euro zone. It is simply an illusion and we do not need to tell people that it is possible because it is simply not possible and we know that it is not possible and only because of it, we have only said that the time has come to introduce the euro just because Croatia is certainly getting more of it than it is losing. I would be the last man to suggest such a thing because my signature is on the kuna, I sign the kuna. I have all these powers we're talking about. No one else. And I say look better that in the national interest it is that I give it up and that someone else is doing it because Croatia will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184279	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Governor, you said we should not expect a recession after the introduction of the euro and that the introduction of the euro could also benefit exports. It's very good news and it makes me very happy, especially because I think that exports are in fact the strongest engine of Croatian economic recovery, stronger and than personal consumption, because we can always generate more for international markets if we are competitive consumption than on the domestic market. Stronger than foreign investment and the best of course are those that are, they produce goods for export. Stronger than the funds or money that we can withdraw from the European Funds. Export requires quality competitiveness, asks us to invest in product research and development, makes it really better in many segments. And any incentive to export at least through the currency I really support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184281	Your Honor, is there a need? There isn't. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184282	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, I'm interested in one of your thoughts, and I'd like to point that out. We are here all the time talking about importing EUR, the rest of the national currency, when, no, yes, while we have countries that are thinking, very intensively preparing to throw out any cash or paper bills. First of all, let's say Sweden that planned this until 2023, and I don't think that might be the happiest solution if we look at some crisis or some accident, but it has its advantages. And now we have two extremes, here we're talking EUR-o that, no, when, what, for something that's more or less so we've heard and I've also said we're euroed maximum and more absolutely deplaced, and on the other hand someone's thinking about ending the money at all. Imagine what that would mean to eradicate corruption. No bags, no, I don't know what, etc. I am only interested in your.../incomprehensible/... opinion on whether this is even possible in Croatia one day?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184283	The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184284	That's an excellent question, I'll say that we spend more and more time constantly on the issue of digital money. And not just us, but in general, our central bankers. It's a very complex question that takes a lot more than a minute, but I'd say it this short. It is absolutely certain that we are going gradually towards the increasing digitisation of everything, including the currency. How it will progress in different countries depends on both political culture and people's willingness to accept different types of currencies. Me, my point is that the CNB and the central bank are doing a favor to the people, to the citizens. If the citizens want the cash, we'll give them the cash, if they want the digital currency, our role is to give them the digital currency. In some other countries, we have a slightly different view. Let's say China moves on to digital currency without asking a lot of citizens. This on the one hand helps eliminate corruption, on the other hand you will be told by people that makes some other things most of the privacy difficult. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184285	The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic. He's giving up. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Governor, this final speech of yours was good. Why? Because in a very plastic way to those who are not ready to talk about reforms, who are not to talk about that we simply want to win something, we have to adapt if we want to play a game. And when you talk about reforms, then you simply have certain groups of society to realize in some contexts, and that's not popular to talk about. And it is good that in the end you said that this whole story about both the EUR and Croatia's entry into the EU that we will have a benefit from is entirely up to us. What and what kind of funds we will withdraw from the EU as funds that will help our economy depends solely on us, what we will offer, what we will seek. However, such topics in this assembly are not questionable because then we would have to tell someone that they would be left without something, and that is not popular. If we're going to take a step, then we're still going to have to tell someone that they're going to have to go all these specific frames if we're going to go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184287	Thank you. I would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184288	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The applicant is the CNB, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. It is noted that half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes were 96 for and 8 against the conclusion proposed by the parent parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184481	Now we move on to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Medical Procedure Interrupt pregnancy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 597 is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. Proposal for a SDP representative club based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted only by the Committee on Gender Equality. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I see that there are no government representatives and I see that the government has not given an opinion. Not that I miss the president, the government's representative, but I miss the government's opinion very much. Even if it wasn't unanimous. But I guess we'll hear the opinion of parties or parties who support the government of the Republic of Croatia, part of the parliamentary majority. The intensity of this law is that the abortion in Croatia is legal, accessible and free of charge. I'll continue to explain all three of this, of these things. So we want him to be as legal as ever. More accessible than ever. And free of charge which is the opposite of what we have now. And now something about the legal political context of passing and proposing laws. This law has created our proposal as a result of the government's indemnification of the Republic of Croatia based on the Constitutional Court's solution. Why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia not write, proposed, put it in consultation or in any other type of legislative procedure law to which the Constitutional Court has committed within two years, and this expired in February of last year, but did it seem to me to be three opposition promoters, Mr Mrsic, Mr Zekanovic and the SDP club, I do not know if I specifically cited the formal promoters, but I mentioned who submitted the proposal. So, I'll read a few sentences and quotes from the Constitutional Court's solution for the introduction. Namely, we are not discussing the Constitution today, and our intrinsicity in proposing this law was not changing constitutional frameworks, constitutional frameworks were set in 1990, and constitutional frameworks were interpreted by the Constitutional Court. We have therefore written this proposal in the framework of what the Constitutional Court has interpreted. So when I said that Croatia's pregnancy interruption should be as legal as it has been before, it was two things, first of all, available to minor citizens, aged 16 years and younger than 16 years, with permission from parents. Also when it is legal and accessible under what conditions it is available as so far, the current law has written 10 weeks since conception, and in our proposal it writes 12 weeks from the gustational age which is identical or very similar period. So in that part, we have not proposed any change, we suggest that the existing legal solution remain as it has been so far. It may be the greatest virtue and the greatest flaw of this proposal at the same time. But why is that, now I'm going to quote the Constitutional Court's assessment. "The termination of pregnancy is complex and thus a controversial issue which cannot and must not be approached unambiguously. It is a deep moral, secular, ethical, philosophical, medical, scientific, religious and legal issue in which there is no consensus among experts in each area. It is therefore difficult to agree on a position among certain areas that are necessarily overlapping and must be seen interdisciplinaryly to respond to the doubts raised in this issue. The core of the problem, especially when viewed primarily from the legislative aspect, is that the primal moral and secular issue is trying to break through legal norm. However, moral attitudes, especially if they associate with something religious, can even be ruled out by religious beliefs. It is a matter of morality, ethics, and faith that each individual, in accordance with his own rules and self-determination, judges and judges. It is therefore illusory to expect that all the dilemmas and divisions that this issue is causing in society will be resolved by its legal regulation itself. The complexity and sensitivity of the relationship between rights and morals reflects and burdens resolving the issue of termination of pregnancy. No wonder the issue of pregnancy termination is causing deep divisions and debates in all societies. However, it can be argued that at national and global level two mutually opposed camps have been formed. Opponents of the right to abortion called "For the Life of the Pro-life" and its advocates, called "For the Selection of Pro-choice", have also been accepted in some international documents. The arguments of these two groups come down to the following, pro-life advocates believe that life begins with conception, that the embryo is a human being who must enjoy all human rights, including the right to life. The mother’s body according to them is only a place where the unborn child grows and feeds, so a woman has no right to decide on the life of an unborn child. They also emphasize the father’s rights, or need for codecision and father’s child. Stopping pregnancy is a murder for them, a violent end to human life. Pro-choice advocates believe that women's right to a safe termination of pregnancy is a fundamental human right stemming from women's rights to life, self-determination, dignity and health. Restrictive laws prohibiting termination of pregnancy only increase women's health risks and act discriminatoryly. They do not mean that pregnancy discontinuation will not take place or that their number will decrease, but only women reduce their availability to a safe termination of pregnancy. The prohibition of pregnancy therefore forces women to resort to alternative solutions and carry out illegal pregnancy interruptions to put their lives and health at risk. Since women's right to reproductive self-determination is fundamentally human right, it is considered inadmissible. Only a woman can decide on her body, life, health and dignity, and unwanted pregnancy can be a great burden for the physical and emotional well-being of a woman." Of course this bill which is no secret nor do I think it should be more focused on this pro-choice attitude. However, as the Constitutional Court said in its decision, opposing or bringing into line two rights which, even here in these fundamental differences, oppose. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution prescribes that every human being has the right to live, and Article 35. The Constitution guarantees everyone respect and legal protection of personal and family life and dignity which the Constitutional Court continues to speak as a right to privacy. The right to privacy guaranteed by Article 35 The Constitution includes the right of everyone to freedom of choice and self-determination. Therefore, the right to privacy is the inferior right of a woman to her own spiritual and physical integrity, which includes deciding whether to start a child and how her pregnancy will develop. By staying in a different state, whether planned or unplanned in a voluntary manner or as a consequence of violence, women shall not deny the right to self-determination. Any restriction on the decision of a woman in autonomous self- realisation and whether she wants to bring pregnancy to an end constitutes interference with her constitutional right to privacy. However, the Constitutional Court says interference with the right to privacy is only allowed if it is in accordance with the law. Such a law must follow certain legitimate objectives and must be necessary to protect these objectives in a democratic society. The entry into someone's privacy must reflect the social need to protect one or more legitimate objectives and must be an appropriate means of protection against those objectives. In this respect, the Constitutional Court has found that the unborn entity enjoys constitutional protection within the meaning of Article 21. The constitution only to the extent that it does not conflict with the right of a woman to privacy. The right to the life of an unborn being in this sense is not protected so that it has an advantage or greater protection than the right of a woman to privacy. The Constitutional Court also assessed that the legislative solution that we now have in the law and which we propose did not disrupt the fair balance between the constitutional right of a woman to privacy and freedom and personality on the one hand and the public interest in protecting the lives of unborn beings guaranteed by the Constitution as constitutionally protected value on the other hand. Since I expect a debate on this subject, and I have carefully read the Constitutional Court's decision, I have also read the reports from the '90s Constitutional Commission. when the Constitution was adopted that it could properly assess what the constitutionalists were then discussing and wanting, and I believe that this proposal, which was written in the first few articles that spoke about it, about who was entitled to and when on a legal abortion, until until which week of pregnancy, and how he fully balanced these two rights which the Constitutional Court warned about and in this constitutional framework, I think there is no room for some way to prescribe stricter solutions than what we have proposed. So much for being legal. Now something about availability. We believe that apart from what is in the law, which is very often difficult for practice, and as regards the availability of this type of service, we already have a problem in Croatia because in some hospitals all gynecologists have an appeal for conscience. In our proposal, we clearly prescribe the right to a conscience, but also the obligation of hospitals and other institutions where pregnancy is interrupted, the obligation to ensure, to ensure that the type of service available to those who are entitled to it. And that's why we're proposing that certain penalties be prescribed. Also, this third part, in terms of free termination of pregnancy, is something that has not been the case so far, although at this point women are fully carrying the price of abortion on demand, and the problem arises in which part of Croatia is located because hospitals are autonomous in determining the prices and costs of abortions. Prices vary for this reason, and it doesn't matter whether a woman has health insurance or not. That's why we suggest that this kind of medical service be free of charge and that it should be covered, covered by insurance. In our also proposal for a law that is not long, we also prescribe certain conditions or restrictions in pregnancy termination after 12 weeks of gestation age or after 10 weeks of conception. We also suggest that a medical interruption can be performed up to 9 weeks of gestation age or 7 weeks of conception and we also prescribe when a woman can be approved or approved after 12 weeks of gestation age or 10 weeks of conception when abortion can also be carried out. This is particularly true when it is established on the basis of medical indications that life cannot be saved in another way or a risk to pregnant women’s health is identified when, on the basis of medical indications and knowledge of medical science, a child can be expected to be born with severe birth defects or mental impairments, when there has been an insemination of the rape, a criminal offence against sexual freedom, sexual abuse of a child or an infirmity and the insemination of a child. I must express my regret once again that the Government has not done its job, which has not even been manifested, that there is no representative in the debate and in protest that I will, as I answer to the replicas of the state where I should be a representative of the Government, have at least someone in the name of an institution be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184483	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I'm asking you nicely to take your place where you need to take your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184484	Mr. Vice President, I haven't broken any of the Rules of Procedure articles I've sat down here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184485	Yes, it is common for government representatives to sit... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184486	And why isn't there a government representative who let those of the ruling majority say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184487	There's no need for a representative of the government to be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184488	I'll bear all the sanctions you give me for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184489	I'm asking you nicely to take a place there, don't make a circus out of something you shouldn't be doing a circus from, you really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184490	On behalf of the SDP Club, I request a 10-minute recess to consult on the follow-up of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184491	Of course I'll give you a break by 21.15. It's 9:00 P.M. Here, we're done with the break. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.15 HOURS]] I kindly ask you to take your seats at the end and you have sat in the presidency, although that is why you have disputed where someone will sit, where anyone can sit, where who can't sit etc. Let's not make a circus out of this. This is one issue that is very serious, a topic that polarizes society, a topic that affects both ethics and morality, and all together, we are going to have a serious debate about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184493	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184494	Look, you're violating the Rules of Procedure. In 238, which clearly states that when the debate is held, it must not depart from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. You know very well, you're not from yesterday any of you MPs, so you know very well that the general rules of conduct are such that we sit in our seats, in places around which the president decides in the presidency and with club presidents etc. and there were even disputes and discussions about it, etc. where anyone will sit and you know it very well, so I'm asking you nicely to take your seats. Can I help you, colleagues? What's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184495	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. You have just injured the Rules of Procedure because the basis of Article 238 of the legislator does not in any part deserve either a step-by-step measure or a disturbance of the work at the session. They are simply protesting the fact that this is probably the first law that the government has not shown itself about, either positively or negatively, torment and silence over this bill, and that is why we believe that this debate is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184496	Okay. You're out of time, I'm very much clearly said, I haven't said a tensile measure yet. [[Intruder Voter: Move.]] I'm going to make a strict measure and I've said the basis of which article and the basis of which item, very clearly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184497	Mr. Vice President, I think you would be mistaken if you gave us a firm measure according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of a deviation from the usual way of conduct because there are always motions or representatives of the Government, so this is common. It is not usual for the Government not to come, and it is not usually that the Government does not comply with the Constitutional Court's request after two years without giving an opinion, a representative does not come, and then the problem is that we are sitting here and we are warning it, and it is only for these eight replicas. That's eight minutes total, I guess you'll keep looking at us on this side. After the election, maybe more, but never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184498	Yes, of course you're wrong and you know that you're wrong. I'm sorry that you, I repeat, have succumbed to the climate of creating circuses from this House, I'm sorry, I didn't expect that from you. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184499	Thank you, Vice President. So, breach of the Rules of Procedure, you demean our work and say we're circus men. It's embarrassing of the vice president of the Parliament, the academics, to thus demean our work. We want to point out the shameful move of the Croatian government which was not evident about a key law that the Constitution also asked to be passed over a period of two years, which has not been done. If the government's representatives had shown themselves and been sitting where the government normally sits, we would have been in our shoes. Since the government is gone this way, we're giving a protest to the government and we're looking for an indication of our law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184500	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was requested by the respected, slowly, slowly, calm down, requested and respected representative Bulj. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184501	Thank you very much. The colleagues did not hurt any article that was prescribed, it does not say where they would sit, but the 238th article, but the government... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184502	Then I ask you to sit down because you say no injured article of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to sit down then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184503	I advise you to call here a representative of the government and make it public And that publicly... your attitude... (speaking at the same time.)...this is embarrassing. [[I'm asking you to sit down.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184504	Comrade Zekanovic, here you are, also seeking the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184505	The colleagues have broken the article. In 238, however, they deviate from the usual behaviour in the Assembly, but it must be pointed out that this is actually a single play because the existing law that HDZ holds is a law that also supports the SDP and they are eligible for the law. They just want to fix it a little bit, that's why the law exists. And I invite you, you have this possibility as one credible Christian, stop the session and let's discuss this tomorrow morning, first point, that would be very good. I think the public should hear what's going on tonight, at a deaf time of night, it's not a problem, we'll be standing up till midnight and you be a dude, here's at least once in your term, and I'll buy you a drink. I'll have dinner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184506	Thank you very much for the drink. A colleague of Hajdukovic's also seemed to have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184507	So, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I think you've hurt an officer. 238. because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say where MPs should sit during their presentations, and we often change places more often than the applicable practice that the proposing representatives always sit there. We haven't used it so far and what's a shame Is that the government, we did, I remember, I'm sorry, now you're getting into my word, please give me back my time, I remember both the 7th and the 8th symposium, it was like that, it was like that. [[Intruder Reiner: Never when they're MPs, it's never happened before.]] I remember colleagues sitting here as proposings, and it's embarrassing that from the government, you yourself said it was an important law, you said it yourself, and there's no one from the government, not even an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184508	No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We still have a colleague named Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Four colleagues broke the Rules of Procedure and very clearly, Art. 37. Rules of Procedure. Namely, art. 37. The Rules of Procedure of the Bureau of Parliament determines the schedule of sitting in the Croatian Parliament and all MPs must sit where the Bureau of the Parliament of the Rules of Procedure decides and determines where the members of each club are sitting. Therefore, the Bureau of Parliament did not find that the SDP members were sitting in a place where the motionor or the Government of the Republic of Croatia was sitting, and in this way they severely injured the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that they deserve a warning for such behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184511	Thank you very much, Vice President. In 238, he was injured, and I believe that such an important subject as you yourself said cannot go through a debate without the Croatian government. I don't think this level of democratic standard we're witnessing right now is the one we want to have, and it doesn't really contribute to the integrity of the Parliament, I mean the government's behavior at this point. And that is why I also ask you and I suggest what Mr. Zekanovic has suggested that we postpone this session until tomorrow morning, to invite a representative of the Government and to really continue constructively and metrically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184512	Thank you very much. Of course, no injured Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bauk, you've already exhausted your breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't keep having, colleague Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184513	Thank you very much, Vice President. Four colleagues have violated the article. 238. Rules of Procedure because, 237. The Rules of Procedure, because they violate the usual rules of conduct, they are proposing in this case, but the promoters can be representatives clubs, a number of MPs as well as representatives of the Government. Therefore, they are not representatives of the government as a proposing, but in this case they are as a proposing and how important this law is to them, they showed this morning when they did not come to the Legislative Committee as legislators and did not defend their law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184514	Thank you. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, please welcome fellow Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mine isn't actually a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's on behalf of the club of MPs that I'm looking for a break, preferably by tomorrow morning. Namely, there are no representatives of the government, we haven't received any indication of the government, the only committee that has been manifested to this bill is the Committee on Gender Equality, we're in a late period, when we're discussing something that is late 2 years, I mean, we have 3, yes, the Constitutional Court decision, I really think that before we get into very non-democratic waters because look, colleagues, you're going to have to cut this out at some point as chairman, you can share it here, you can rule them out from the debate because they will be consistent in this and then we'll find ourselves in the waters where I really don't think we should be in spite of all the party debates, so I really don't think that the conditions for a democratic debate on such an important topic have been met. And here I am calling, looking for actually on behalf of the club of representatives by tomorrow morning and if you can't approve it, then grant at least some duration in which you consider it appropriate, but just be aware that the same way that the actions of your colleagues reflect on them, so what you decide now and how your colleagues and colleagues here are going to set themselves up will reflect on you and be sure that citizens and citizens of this play will look at it and remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184516	I agree it's a game, unfortunately your colleagues sitting on the left side of me right now, look, it's clear to everyone what this is about. I, what you are looking for, I can give a break, of course, I will give it, I am obliged to give a break of 10 minutes, there is no, a little read the Rules of Procedure whenever-when it is useful sometimes so you will see that there is no break longer than half an hour, so from 10 minutes to 30 minutes I can give a break. As far as I'm concerned, we can give a break and stay here for 30 minutes, and by the number of those who applied for the speech, we'll be safe up to two hours and no replicas. But I still pray that we stick to what is written in the Rules of Procedure of Standard Rules of Conduct in Parliament, and that we stick to where whoever is sitting because it is specified, it is not arbitrary and you all know very well that it is so, I just don't know why you want to make that play here right now. I don't think the public will appreciate it, so it would be much better if we were to discuss it seriously now. You said yourself that it was filled in relative to the earlier assembly period, at least it's late hours. Why did we discuss one item until late this afternoon? We can all ask ourselves again, but we're going seriously. I suggest we do some serious work so we don't actually do something from this house that he shouldn't be. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184517	When you are already talking about the usual order and mode of work of the Croatian Parliament, then you have broken the Rules of Procedure from the beginning. So no point in this House is discussed unless there is an opinion from the home body. The Health and Social Policy Committee as a parent working body was not obvious about this law, how could you even begin working on this agenda point? So no government opinion, no parent body opinion for such an important law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184518	Let me remind you that it was precisely at the request of your club that we changed our Rules of Procedure that we had entered the Rules of Procedure that, at the request of 30 MPs, we had to discuss it within a certain time. Therefore, we are discussing it in the business period and that is why it is put in place, that you did not insist on bringing it into the Rules of Procedure and it was entered into the Rules of Procedure, and I will not assess whether it is good or bad, but the fact is that in the Rules of Procedure, we have to discuss it, we simply have to discuss it and that is why it is on the agenda because we are obliged because it was the President of the Parliament to put it on the agenda. It's not an arbitrary thing, it's an obligation. So this is how I give a 10 minute break now. ... I didn't see, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't see it because you're not in your shoes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184519	So if you looked to the left, you'd see. So the 224th order, you just alluded to the fact that we've been discussing the points before all day, yes, because the agenda that you've put together today is important and we've had important points and it's been going on. And secondly, this whole situation that's been going on for 20 minutes is happening because of you, Vice President. We just wanted to point out that the government did not give an opinion on this important law, that the parent committee did not give an opinion on this important law, that HDZ obviously did not have an opinion on this important law, and counterpart Bauk only thought of eight replicas to respond from this place just as a protest to show our position and we could end up and we could continue now. And now you're going to say something, and basically you're stopping the debate on this important issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184520	I don't do anything wrong, but I respect the Rules of Procedure, and you don't respect it on purpose, knowingly, you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what you're trying to do with that, but I don't understand this one, but I'm giving a 10 minute break anyway. It's 9:00 P.M. Okay, here's what they're telling me is that we've run out of time for 10 minutes, so now we're moving on to replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 21.42 HOURS]] The first one's a respectable replica. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184522	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Democratic and HSS Club, the Government and Secretary of Parliament, in the first row, the Secretary of Parliament, injured Article 122. A Rules of Procedure in which it clearly states "that the requested opinions of the Government's position and proposals in cases where it is not a proposing Government is obliged to deliver to the Parliament and to designate its representative". The Parliament sent a letter to the Government asking for an opinion on this law, so the Government was obliged to give its opinion and to appoint its representative, the Rules of Procedure were injured, and we have no conditions to conduct the debate, in particular not to hold a debate on the parent body where Article 179 makes it very clear "that before the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Working Body President and the Legislative Committee, they are obliged to put the bill in the agenda and conduct the debate." This is a precedent that we have never done, I do not know why the Government did so, probably so that Plenkovic cannot decide whether it will be a positive or negative position on this law and let us not do the precedent. There's always been a government opinion, so it doesn't have to be a representative either, but it was the government's opinion, and now we have nothing. According to the Rules of Procedure, we can ask for this to be put on the agenda and that's fine, but at the moment the Secretary of Parliament decided to go to the agenda he had to get the government's opinion as well. So if the conditions of today's conversation are not met, we'll talk tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but I think we're working a precedent that's not good. And we are very clearly violating the Rules of Procedure. Why? So the public doesn't know who I think about this law. This is an important law, it is not an ideological law, it is a law that is important for women in Croatia, and it is a law that is one democratic fluid and let it be when we have all the business conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184523	My colleague Mrsić, you misread the Rules of Procedure on purpose or on purpose. So what you're saying is that when the motionary is government and then the government's representative has to be here, however, it doesn't need to be that, if any other promoter was a club of representatives, whether an individual, whether they're all other forms that are possible, it doesn't need to be a representative of the government or sitting here, yes or not to give his opinion. We had a past debate when we didn't have government opinions and discussed things. We also discussed things in the past when we didn't have the opinion of the working bodies. The working bodies as far as I know were called, I don't know if they're this one, slowly, so of course I'll take a break and take a break by 21, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184524	Your Honorary Vice President, you are here at this time as the person who must protect and protect the Rules of Procedure. Don't do this to yourself. If you're not properly advised on the side, I beg you now at the stop, open up...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184525	I'm protecting the Rules of Procedure, against abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184526	...please, just a moment, you are violating Article 122(2). "The requested opinions, views and proposals of the Government in cases where it is not a proposing, the Government is obliged to deliver to the Assembly and to designate its representative." When it is not a proposing, which is in this case. Do not violate the Rules of Procedure but protect, do not allow a debate without a prerequisite. And Article 180, Article 180, you too, don't do this to yourself, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184527	Look, I'm not doing anything to myself, I'm sticking strictly to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184528	You work, you don't, you break it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184529	You're talking about different things, now this point is listed on a different principle. It is included on the principle of 30 signatures where there is a clear deadline, etc., for what you say there is no deadline, there is no deadline. So you can read the Rules of Procedure, study it, and then you'll know that I'm not wrong. I've taken a break already. I'll see you in 22 and 22 and 7 minutes. Sorry, 22, 10 minutes, 22 and 57, sorry, 21 and 57. It's 9:00 P.M. Here it is, we're out of time. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 21.57 HOURS]] My colleagues, I would really ask you to take your seats as planned for each of us so that we can continue our work normally. Then I was simply forced in accordance with Article 239 to give you a reminder to my four. I'm asking you nicely, I'm asking you nicely. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184531	Mr. Vice President, I ask you to refer to the article of the Rules of Procedure as the basis of which you have given me your notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184532	I'm the one who referred.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184533	Al item, item, to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184534	This one doesn't have an item, you might as well know this one, and I've already told you what you're doing in 238, and that's item 7, I think, with your behavior, you're deviating from the usual rules of conduct in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184535	Good in that case...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184536	Each of us has the intended place and that's what these places are I'm going to repeat you've been having big discussions, looking for a move so the clubs would be together, so when people were leaving one club to another club to be together, etc., it was decided by the presidency and so, and you know very well that each of us has a place of our own, right? So, this one, I ask you nicely, to respect this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184537	Okay, in accordance with the article of the Rules of Procedure, I will make a written complaint to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because you have given me a warning because I am neither in the way of a session nor in the way I object to anyone, nor in the usual ways of conduct, because that is where the promoters sit in the rule and therefore okay, I will receive the admonition bravely and stoically as I sat there bravely and stoically. And I believe my colleagues will react in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184538	Thank you very much. You don't want to go to your place? Then I give you a second warning by taking away the word according to article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184539	President, we have to express our opinion since we can't do otherwise, so the Rules of Procedure of us requests that you systematically violate, to say that we will seek the written opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we will ask for a written opinion because you are violating... /The speakers speak at the same time./... your place would not be a problem, now is the problem. Why? Mr. Bukarica, you're shouting something, so you need to secure the conditions for discussion. Did you secure them? You're not. Do we have the government's opinion? We don't. Do we have the opinion of the parent committees? We don't. On Friday, we knew the agenda on Friday, Mr. Bucarica, what day is today? Please, nice. ... Wednesday. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184540	I'm asking you nicely to take your seats again. Based on an article. 240, 2nd century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184541	What else are you willing to do and how much to break the Rules of Procedure to protect Andrej Plenkovic and the Government from being exposed to eating for free, safe and accessible abortion? or not because you're in intra-party [[President: What article is injured?]] elections. [[Intruder President: I give you a warning.]] That's terrible, Mr. Reiner. It's scary what you're doing. [[Incursion President: In accordance with Article. 239.]] Croatia is not HDZ, act in line with the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder President: Please sit down and behave yourself.]] Now you're gonna kick these people out because they're asking for business here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184542	I'm giving you the foundation of an article. 240th century, 1st century warning with a word-absorbing. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184543	Vice President of the Parliament, you have violated 237. The Rules of Procedure because you gave a warning for no reason. So, you're obliged to ensure working conditions in the assembly, since they're not there, it's just too much to postpone the session for tomorrow morning. And so once again, I ask you to postpone the session tomorrow morning and invite a representative of the government so that we can discuss such an important topic competently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184544	Here's my colleague Jovanovic. You've picked up before...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184545	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you again to violate the article. 122, 127 and 180, and by taking away the word you are actually making it impossible for us to discuss further because you are taking away the word until the end of the debate to all the legislators of this law... /The speakers speak to us at the same time./... the representative of the Government, has no opinion of the Committee on Health and Social Policy and cannot be discussed this law without that opinion. There are representatives of all health professions, and we will discuss this without that opinion because your secretary has not been able to ask for an opinion from the board and the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184546	Let's finally learn and read the Rules of Procedure, and we'll understand that it's not the secretary who's doing it. It's the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184547	So we read it, Vice President. You read it. Here's the force away from me if you have to, but what you're doing is censorship. You don't want to hear someone else's opinion, you don't want to provide the terms of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184548	No, I'm asking you to come to the scene and continue seriously with the debate, and we're not doing a circus from the Parliament. I ask you, however, to discuss it, I ask you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to respect the Rules of Procedure. You can't talk. Here you go. ... You can't. Read the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing to appeal about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, you learn the procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First, you can't talk to me that way, and you can't de-polemize with me at all, and I suggest you read the Rules of Procedure... But in case I took you away from the session... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Read your Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can complain if I take you away from the session, not if I take your word from you, so finally read these Rules of Procedures that interpret you in any way you think of.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184549	He's been injured. Article 121(3), if no government representative is present at the hearing referred to in Article 1 of this Article or a working body may consider whether the presence of a Government representative is necessary for the debate to be interrupted and delayed, without discussion, by the Assembly or the Working Body. Apparently, a representative of the government is necessary here. We had before this point the National Bank, along with the governor's proposer, was sitting a representative of the government and what is the difference between that point and this point now? Explain that to me, Mr. President. What's the difference between that point before and this point now? The only way to put it on the agenda is because the president couldn't decide. But this is too far-fetched that doesn't make sense for us to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184550	It's not a precedent that's happened before and it's not true that it has to be a representative of the government, it's not true, you're misreading it. Look at what it says about the demand of 30 MPs, this is the procedure, this is one other procedure. ... Here you go, buddy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184551	So art. The 121st century 3, as quoted by counterpart Mrsic, says: “If the debate does not involve a representative of the Government in St. 1 of this article, or a working body, it may consider that the presence of a government representative is necessary to interrupt or postpone the debate. Look, there are currently more people who think that here the necessary government representative than those who think that it is not, I mean, here is not said other than procedure, I will wait for you to pay attention to me again, yes, so you would beg your time back because you talked to a colleague named Bauk if it's not a problem, so I'd just like to say that we consider most of the representatives and MPs present here feel it is necessary to be representatives of the government, I mean, don't write unless the procedure is 30 MPs and the signatures to put something on, so there's no contingence. Most people here right now think it's necessary. Come on, don't rape this for this kind of thing in the Serbian assembly, the opposition doesn't participate, don't be a Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184552	Let's not talk that way, I beg you nicely. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184553	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament is injured. 121, according to this article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia I think it is important to say that at this point, you have allowed this debate to happen, allowing for the irregularity of the work of the Croatian Parliament itself. [[Intruder Reiner: No, you colleagues Bernardic have just come in this hour, I have already talked twice about it.]] You did not call on government representatives or they did not respond, which means that you could not hold this debate and on the other hand, the parent board did not give an opinion on this one important topic. It is that in this way you have tried to hide the debate from the Croatian people countless times, of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deep into the night [[Intruder Reiner: You're out of time.]] I have to ask you to finish. [[Intruder Reiner: You're out of time, please.]] It's about trying to hide the truth from people in Croatia [[Intruder Reiner: And I you, you can't finish because you're out of time.]] Like you're trying to hide your real estate that you have a handful of [[Intruder Reiner: I give you a warning according to Article. 239.]] Unfortunately, that's what you do in Croatia [[Intruder Reiner: That's right, 573.]] You can give us all a warning, but you won't stop us from telling the truth about our country. [[/Intruder Reiner: Basic Art. 240th, paragraph 1. I give you a reminder by subtracting words.]] While your ministers get rich, people from Croatia move out, while your ministers can't register their properties, 176 000 people have left our country. [[/Intruder Reiner: Basic Art. 240, paragraph 2. I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.]] Retired people cramp in debt, they're on the verge of life's existence. And you hide the truth from them; you hide the truth from them. [[/Intruder Rainer: That's right, and they're taking 240,000 kunas, right?]] The regularity of Parliament's work. .../Intruder on the side, not understood. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, about the 240 000 kunas you bought.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184554	of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deep into the night [[Intruder Reiner: You're out of time.]] I have to ask you to finish. [[Intruder Reiner: You're out of time, please.]] It's about trying to hide the truth from people in Croatia [[Intruder Reiner: And I you, you can't finish because you're out of time.]] Like you're trying to hide your real estate that you have a handful of [[Intruder Reiner: I give you a warning according to Article. 239.]] Unfortunately, that's what you do in Croatia [[Intruder Reiner: That's right, 573.]] You can give us all a warning, but you won't stop us from telling the truth about our country. [[/Intruder Reiner: Basic Art. 240th, paragraph 1. I give you a reminder by subtracting words.]] And you hide the truth from them; you hide the truth from them. [[/Intruder Reiner: Basic Art. 240, paragraph 2. I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.]] [[/Intruder Rainer: That's right, and they're taking 240,000 kunas, right?]] The regularity of Parliament's work. .../Intruder on the side, not understood. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, about the 240 000 kunas you bought.]] So, here, you know what? This way, since we can't function in this way, I'm interrupting this session, I'm interrupting this session... The sitting will continue, this point will continue once the conditions have been met. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Have a good night. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184555	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184556	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184557	So I can do it before? Okay. We move on to the continuation of the agenda point as the session was interrupted with the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law on Medical Procedure Interrupt Pregnancy, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 597 (continuation of the debate) Proposer: SDP Representatives Club Here you are, colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184558	Mr. Vice-President, I propose on behalf of the motion that the debate on this agenda item be postponed for another two weeks to give the Government the opportunity to submit, that the opinion be decided by the representatives and that we should be able to discuss it correctly, given that we asked to put this on the agenda, we believed that in the next few weeks the government would be able to give its testimony and given that the parent committee today held a session, we believe that the government could give an additional two weeks of evidence and that we have a normal debate on this important item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184559	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184560	Dear Vice President, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this bill. In fact, here I think the big problem is that we haven't heard the government's real perception of this law, which we haven't heard what our dear Prime Minister thinks in general about the law on abortion, he's a declarative Christian Democrats, but when he's in a position to protect life from conception or his beginning, and then he doesn't do anything about it. So I would even say here, we have a credible Mr. Bauk and the SDPs who have neoliberated and who are for a liberal law on abortion and they are fighting for as liberal an abortion bill as possible. On the other hand, we have one false Christian Democrats who is able to protect life and will not protect it. So, this way I call on a colleague of Kovac who is here, here's one of the few HDZs, let this one here tell the Prime Minister his position on this subject, let it be loud and clear, right here in front of the HDZ Club, ask for a break and let him say exactly what I said, that he is also for the protection of life from conception and that he resents the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, that he has not protected his life from conception and it is very important to mention, and he has a constitutional obligation. The Constitutional Court, which he very much holds on to when it comes to the Household Act because he said it was okay that the Constitutional Court passed the law, if he ignores the Constitutional Court and what the Constitutional Court said about this law. So a credible SDP who wants to liberalise the abortion and I will say however, and a credible HDZ who just wants right-wing voters at the same time but does not go, right-wing voters, conservative voters, Christians, do not want that kind of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184561	Thank you. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the case of a Member The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament paragraph 2 states that the requested opinion, views and proposals of the Government in cases where it is not a proposing, the Government is obliged to deliver to the Parliament and to designate its representative. So there are no government representatives, and in this sense it would really be necessary to postpone this debate until the government has appointed a representative to participate in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184563	Dear colleague Glavasevic, you have interpreted this correctly but have not read to me what time-limit it is necessary to deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184564	Mr. Vice President, the Parliament's position doesn't say what time it is, but it doesn't matter, so I didn't insist on the deadline, I insisted on just delaying the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184565	Oh, it certainly has something to do with it. Last time we started a debate without the government's opinion, so today we'll continue and don't abuse the announcement because you didn't call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't call for a break or anything else. Here you go, colleague Miranda Mrsic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184566	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184567	I'd like to ask you to just turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184568	... Art. Article 121(3), if no government representative is present at the hearing referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Assembly and the Working Body may consider that the presence of a Government representative is necessary, the debate is interrupted or postponed. [[Specially enabled.]] This will be decided by the Assembly or the Working Body without debate. There are as many of us here, we can decide to take that off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184569	Thank you. The government is not a proponent, but is a representative as far as it has, the Government has not delivered an opinion in such a way that it is not mandatory for the motionor to be present or representative of the Government. Here you go, colleague Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184570	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Please pause on behalf of the club GLAS for 10 minutes, the attitude of the GLAS around this law is very clear but the first time you make a precedent or the first time you release a ghost from a bottle, you can't go back to fighting. We have a debate on this law that has already been broken, where the motion says to postpone by 2 i.e., to wait for the government's opinion and we're actually so over the knee, by force you go further or not, but you're going further into debate with this law even though the debate has been interrupted, although the government's opinion has not been, although the government's representatives are gone. Somehow, the message is to listen to the promoter, to postpone everything by 2 i.e., wait for the government's opinion for the simple reason that we can discuss this bill from the opposition clubs in the way that it's common, in the way that you have that opinion of the Government, that you can simply move on with it. This is not good, this is going to be a precedent, if the Parliament starts to act on precedents, then the more the question is both the Rules of Procedure and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184571	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you are wrong about the government's representative. So, there have been such points so far, so you're wrong about it and there's no word about any precedent, and I'm going to give you a break after these calls. We still have a colleague named Pejo Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This isn't about a bill passed yesterday. Let me. [[Invader Brkić: Tell us what you are looking for.]] So in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013. 248. I have two minutes to explain what I'm looking [[Invadica Brkić: You must say what you want.]] If you interrupt me in the first word I said, just as my colleagues did not allow their right to sit here as promoters, how will we maintain parliamentaryism in the Croatian Parliament? [[Invader Brkić: Say it.]] So please. Let me explain why I got up and asked for a word. [[Invadica Brkić: Tell your colleague.]] Thank you. So, Mr. Vice President, MPs at HS have submitted a bill of this law enough time ago and have referred it to the procedure. The government has had enough time to show itself, however, it is not because it wants to obstruct the debate. The SDP advocates' club is therefore seeking a break in order to agree on how we will approach tonight's debate because if you consider that the presence of the government of the Republic of Croatia is not necessary for a measure supported by over 80% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, if you believe that the government's behaviour of the Republic of Croatia is one of the rejections and even a slap on more than 80% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is acceptable, then I fear that you would not understand parliamentaryism or in its main lines. The SDP representative club will decide whether to participate in the debate, and given that all the SDP representatives from the SDP Club, if we decide not to participate in the debate, then I will ask you in advance to explain to the Croatian public what kind of debate is not the presence of either a representative of the motionor or a representative of the Government, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, is required to show himself about the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184573	Thank you. I'll grant you a break. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184574	Dear Vice President, I ask an explanation whether I may take part in the debate since this is a very specific situation, a delayed debate, a continued debate, Is my sentence still worth... [[Upadica Brkić: Debate, co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184575	A colleague, Jovanovic. We're not even leaving yet. So I just read the agenda point, and then the colleagues answered the word, so please be patient, when we start the debate, then you'll get the answer. Dear fellow Bully, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184576	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Also, I think he's hurt. 122 because the government is obliged to deliver to the Parliament and to determine its opinion and to designate its representative, however, the opinion has not been delivered, there is no representative. I don't see a single problem here, I don't agree with the SDP proposal, but they're discussing it. To me, life is from conception to death. That's my position, but I think we have a right to discuss it. What is the problem with Andrej Plenkovic, the esteemed Vice President and HDZ? So let's... your attitude. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184577	Thank you. .../
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184578	.../ And we'll discuss it and we'll see what happens, so I'm looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184579	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184580	.../ Attack Bulj: To invite Prime Minister Plenkovic to send an opinion./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184581	...to a respected colleague of Bull's. So, my colleague Bulj, I've already responded several times to such a similar, similar breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you nicely, do not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure because no injured Rules of Procedure have been harmed. Is there anyone else who might have answered? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184582	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Art. 122 says that, among other things, you as chairman in this case are obliged to protect the Rules of Procedure and the integrity of the HS. The government spits in our faces. Today they came to the board meeting on the first point of the Living Wall to be manifested. The second point was our bill. They ran away. They're gone. What you're saying is that there's no deadline in which the government needs to be manifested, you can hang a cat on a tail. This means that a group of MPs may be ignored throughout the term of office..
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184583	.../ Indica Brkić: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184584	...which, based on the Rules of Procedure, proposes the law and no one gives them 5%. I appeal to your understanding. You are a reasonable man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184585	.../ Upadica Brkic: I thank my esteemed colleagues./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184586	to protect Parliament's integrity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184587	I am very much protecting the integrity of the Parliament and I am working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the HS that was brought into this High House and I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been harmed, and what was on the board today, I really don't know. I'm setting a break to 20 hours and 15 minutes. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.18 HOURS]] Dear MPs and MPs continue to discuss this point that we started at the meeting of the Parliament on 5 February 2020. We're gonna sit down. Here you go, buddy Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184589	Mr. Vice-President, since there is no representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I suggest that it be in accordance with Article. No. 121.3. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS shall hold a vote on whether we will continue with a session without a representative of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184590	I thank the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. As far as I can tell, there's no quorum. There's no quorum, we keep working. We're going to sit down, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184591	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you have injured an officer. No. 121.3. Art. No. 121.3. The rules of procedure say the parliament will decide on the requested suspension without debate. If a vote is requested, if it is requested that the Assembly decide something, and there is no condition for the Assembly to decide then you should stop and ensure that the conditions are obtained before we continue the debate, otherwise you violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS, and we will not participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184592	I thank the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. You've abused the Rules of Procedure's breach institute. I don't think he's hurt. Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184593	Your Honor, Mr. President, you have injured an officer. 121, and just before that, Art. 122. It is up to you as chairman to ensure the preconditions for the work of the assembly, the debate on laws and the vote of law, and not to obstruct the same. Art. 121. It is clearly prescribed that unless there are no representatives of the government, and there is no government to vote without debate on whether or not the session should be postponed, which is what we are looking for. If you continue this violence against the Rules of Procedure, we will have to leave the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184594	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184595	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Article 121 122, so we don't have the conditions to continue the debate, so... 3. You are very clearly in violation of this article and it is rape procedure, something that this assembly should not do because nothing costs us doing so when we get the government's opinion and I think that no matter what we don't have a quorum, but we should do the voting is very clear here if there is no government representative that we don't then vote, that then the parliament has nothing to do further on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184596	I thank my colleague Mrsic. I am also the foundation of the article. In 239, I give you a warning because you abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure again despite what I have already told my colleagues and colleagues before. Dear colleague Maras, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. and 121 and 239. What you're saying about counsel's warnings is not in the article. 238, because by that logic every time we disagree with your opinion, we would violate the Rules of Procedure, so it's nowhere to be found. So I guess we have a right to say our position and we think you've broken the Rules of Procedure. On that basis, you cannot conclude immediately if it is not in line with your opinion that we deserve a warning. And second, not to repeat what my colleagues said 121. has been reportedly violated. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] So, You can't warn us about that. [[Intruder: Dear]] That's what I'm trying to tell you. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184598	...respected colleague Maras. So this isn't a replica, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. I give you a reminder based on an article. 239 for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute of Infringement. If you are not satisfied with what you are told, please contact the committee responsible. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184599	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I consider it a violation of the decree. 121. The Rules of Procedure which states that if the hearing is not attended by a representative of the Government referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the Assembly or the Working Body may consider whether the presence is to be interrupted or postponed and shall be decided without debate. So you don't want to hear us all the time warning about the provision of an article. 121, which is extremely surprising to me because otherwise you've been very reasonable in making all your decisions so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184600	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. I can certainly hear you, I understand you very much, but read the Rules of Procedure a little bit. So, that's what you're saying now that there was a debate, and there was no government opinion, so as far as I know, colleagues were discussing whether there were no problems. So, I'm giving you a reminder, too, based on an article. In 239, if you are not satisfied, you can contact the committee responsible. We still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184601	Thank you very much. The Chairman, Article 121 and 122 of the Rules of Procedure, has been broken. There is no condition here, is it obvious that the government has no courage to give an opinion on this bill? Therefore, it is a huge problem and degradation primarily of parliament and parliamentary deputies. I personally disagree with the proposal, I repeat, the SDP Club, is my life from conception to death. But why is the government afraid to give an opinion, and why is there no government representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184602	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184603	So don't let Andrej Plenkovic lead you because you can't let parliament be demoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184604	Thank you, colleague Bulj, please respect your time. Second, as I told my colleague Mrak Taritas last time, there was no government opinion, so we started the debate and started and there were no problems. Based on Article 239 and I give you a warning. If you are not satisfied with this, you can be.../incomprehensible/... to the board of directors. A colleague, Marko Vučetić, injured the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184605	I asked for a break, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the club I'd like to request a 10-minute break, to consult the club on two things. The first one is one that I particularly like, which is that the majority of parliament and the chairman sends a message to the government that it is irrelevant in the debate in the assembly. It's really interesting that in a political sense, the concept in which it is Prime Minister Plenkovic but also, the break takes 2 minutes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184606	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it was wrong. I'm sorry, just put the time in, like, a minute and a half. No, by the way, I'm giving you my word and please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184607	Here I go, so we're sending a message to the government that it's irrelevant, this is a historical act, and that historic act deserves at least a 10-minute break, if that break is relevant to this government. On the other hand, what I am interested in and what we need to consult about is something that this bill contains in itself, which is in discussions, in literature, not in street discussions or in world-famous discussions, but in expert discussions there is a difference between genetic humanity or genetic humanity and moral humanity. Genetic humanity is all biological material that is not marked by reflexivity or me. When there's no I can't talk about a person. Morality is the humanity that is formed on the basis of the community and based on the reflexivity of some self. Again in this sense, this law sends us that this government has not developed moral humanity and reflexive self but is only at the level of genetic humanity, and therefore it is irrelevant and because of its irrelevability I am looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184608	Thank you. I'll set you up for a break, now that we've had a break, we'll have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored colleague Peđa Grbin, a respected colleague of Maras and a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. I'm setting a break to 20 and 40. It's 20.28 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.39 HOURS]] I owe it to the Rules of Procedure's respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184610	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. It's about art. So that's 247, and that's St. 3. ‘On the proposal of the Chair of the home working body of the Committee on Legislatives or Clubs of Representatives on two or more points of the established agenda, a joint discussion may be held if the majority of the present representatives agree with it’, the majority of those present. It's our one practice established Mr. Bukarica and Mr. Brkic. And Mr. Brkic, don't do what Mr. Jandrokovic and Mr. Plenkovic want, I believe you don't have a figure in your pocket, so stop the session, don't do what they expect you to do, don't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184611	Dear colleague Zekonovic is talking about cases where discussions are united, you read well. No injured Rules of Procedure under Article. In 239, I give you a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Are there any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I suggest we end these business outsmarts and pranks when it comes to first-class political issues. We understand that the government cannot give an opinion, which is why we will wait for the internal elections to end in HDZ so that we can have an interlocutor who will have a clear position on this, and not as divided anyway. This is why we will no longer participate in this debate, and I suggest that, due to the absence of both the promoters and the Government, you interrupt the session afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-05-0.u184613	I thank my colleague, Bauk. If there are no proposings, then we'll make the relevant decisions. Dear MPs and MPs, we continue to discuss this point that we started at the Parliament meeting on February 5, 2020, and we still have a representative of the promoter, Mr Klisovic, and no, you are going. Okay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we do not have a proposing for this item of the agenda, I am interrupting the session until conditions are created for this item of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with scheduled agenda points. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. SESSION Interrupted at 20.42 hours
