ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182569	Dear President of the Parliament. I'd like a consult at the Sovereign Club. Croatia is in one moral crisis, not only the Croatian state but this Parliament, I would only mention that there are members of a failed ideology, most of them are not here today, that left wing of the party. They spit on the victims of the Homeland War, not only that, but they mock the dead members of the Croatian Army. We recently heard Mr. Grbina making fun of the Maslenica operation where 127 Croatian defenders died, more injured. We've got the HSS cabal, it's not HSS, we've heard it from Mr. Hrga here who approves of the U.S. assassinations, and such a... communist has killed the HSS champions we all know in II. The World War and this Mr. Beljak, who is a metal Yugoslav, are still running the party and still revolves in the grave of Radić, Krnjević and Marček. Also Mr Bernardić, it is a pure blast of what we heard, it may be the worst statement spoken in the Parliament where Mr Bernardic praised the collectiveization of '45. The year that was based on Stalin's program that expelled 120 million cults, the Russian peasants into the gulag camps into collectives and died of hunger by bulleting millions and millions of Russians in the head and they praise it today. So they went back as shit after the rain of these former personnel, they showed their rights to the faces, and it was proven that this was a country where neither academic nor human lustration was done, and they went back to the ones we fought, and this is what we still live proof in one of the Colombian communist Caliphate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182570	Comrade Glasnović, I cannot grant you a break. I let you say by expecting you to refer to the agenda. Therefore, pursuant to Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, ‘The meeting shall be set out in this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the point of establishment of the session agenda’. So no business assumptions were created for the break, so we continue to work. As I said: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing EU rules in the field of payment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E., No. 818 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is a respected Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182571	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected representatives and MPs, the current law, which was passed in 2016 on the implementation of the EU rules in the field of payment transport, allowed the implementation of three regulations, namely EC Regulation 924/2009 on cross-border payments within the Community, and then EU 260 of 2012 laying down technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in the euro and subsequently EU Regulation 215/751 on interbank fees for payment transactions on the basis of cards. In addition, for the purpose of implementing those Regulations, the applicable law lays down supervisory authorities, then the non-judgmental appeal procedures and procedures, and then the infringement proceedings against, in the sense of infringement of those Regulations. As regards the basic reasons for drawing up this bill and the news it adopts is primarily related to EU Regulation 2019/518 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March last year, which has been applied directly to all EU Member States since 15 December 2019. This Regulation has been amended and already implemented shortly before mentioned by Regulation (EC) 924/2009 in respect of certain fees for cross-border payments in the Union and recalculation fees. This Regulation shall equalise compensation for cross-border payments in EUR with compensation for the corresponding national payments in the currency of a Member State in order to remove the inequality existing in cross-border payments in EUR between payment service users in the euro area Member States and those in Member States outside the euro area. In addition, additional obligations regarding the transparency of currency recalculation fees are prescribed. In order to enable payers to compare fees on individual options for the conversion of currency at an ATM or at a point of sale, payment service providers should provide fully comparable or fully comparable information on the fees used for the accounting of currencies in an easily understood and accessible manner. In addition to providing such information under the contracts concluded, providers should also provide them on their user websites, then on e-banking websites and on mobile banking applications. Since the EU Regulations are directly applicable in all Member States, and this Regulation, by applying this Regulation to banks in the Republic of Croatia, expects a multiple reduction of fees for cross-border payments in the euro as a result of their equalisation as I have said with the appropriate compensation for national kuna payments. For example, today Croatian banks charge different fees for credit transfer services in EUR which is the most frequently used service which is the most commonly used service which is the subject of the end-of-end EU regulation, and prices depend greatly on how services are provided or transactions. According to the current bank prices, consumers pay the minimum fee between 30 kuna when making payments through online banking up to 1% of the transaction amount, or minimum 100, and a maximum of 500 kuna or 0.50% to the transaction amount where the maximum amount can be even 750 kuna. As a consequence of this EU regulation, compensation will have to be equated with the prices of kuna credit transfers, linearly and statistically this means that consumers for the same service they provide, for example through internet and mobile banking, in most banks, will have to pay a fee that will be in the level of 1 to 3 kuna. The fees for making transactions in the offices are usually higher, as you know for yourself in most banks, but even then these charges are paid more than the fees mentioned for European transactions. The maximum fee is 1.20% of the transaction amount, i.e. a minimum of 13.5 kuna to a maximum of 100 kuna. HNB publishes on its website the so-called "HNB". the comparison of bank charges covering the comparison of current fees that banks charge to consumers for the most frequently used payment services, i.e. the most representative services related to the payment account in the Republic of Croatia, which also expose consumers to the highest total or individual cost. Other major changes to the applicable law refer to the first bodies responsible for law enforcement where, with existing authorities, the CNB and the Financial Inspectorate are also added by the State Inspectorate. Namely, the State Inspectorate’s market inspection shall exercise the supervision of the obligors of the application of the Regulation which are not payment service providers and provide currency recalculation services at the point of sale or at the ATM. There are then non-judgmental appeal procedures and alternative dispute resolution where, now, the object of the user to the applicable law, the payment service provider is obliged to provide a response within 10 days, and now that period can be exceptionally extended for reasons beyond the control of the payment service provider up to a maximum of 35 days and subject to the obligation to provide a temporary response with those reasons of delay. In the final reply to the proposal, the payment service provider is obliged to refer the user to the possibility of making complaints to the competent authority, and if the consumer and the body are competent to alternatively resolve consumer disputes. As regards infringement provisions, there are, of course, additional infringements relating to the implementation of this Regulation 2019/518. I would like to mention, as is the case with the introduction and said, that the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to the nomotechnical technical and linguistic expression of two norms in relation to Articles 2 and 11 which, of course, accepts this approach, and in conclusion that the regulation in question is directly applicable from 15 December and in order to allow the exercise of supervision of the application of its provisions, then to settle complaints concerning the application of the Regulation, and to initiate infringement proceedings in cases contrary to this office, it is proposed that the law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you so much for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182572	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182573	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic, two things that are very important here, so this law is important and unfortunately because of the great demographic crisis that has affected the Republic of Croatia because the mass of our fellow citizens in the last year and a few days has left the Republic of Croatia, this is about several hundred thousand people working and sending money from other parts of the EU to the Republic of Croatia and having certain costs, and it is good to go in this direction to make these fees less, given that the banks are making large, large profits on, on fees, it is important that the sooner we do, of course, keep as many people as possible, to return one part of the people to the Republic of Croatia and the other thing that I wanted to comment on here is amazing that we haven't heard from the Government't heard from the government's representatives, and neither you, commenting on this incredible situation with Raiffeisbank, so the official government has not responded at all and said what they think of this competition and the pressure and pressure. The Constitutional Court and ours, our whole I would say social [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] The structure that the government didn't refer at all, here's what you think about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182574	I'm asking you to stick to time, 12 seconds more than one, scheduled time, if every so long... Someone will be warned who will prolong it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182575	Thank you very much, thank you very much, and for the question that has been raised, this regulation is otherwise independent of the entire EU community in relation to 28 countries that want to equalise the EU-wide criteria, as well as for the Republic of Croatia, including those countries that are not in the euro area, so that they are not privileged countries that are now in the euro area. And as far as this other issue is concerned, it is clear to all of us that within the jurisdiction of monetary authorities, in this case national banks are also these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182576	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, two questions, I see that in the opening speech you said how much it is now a reduction in fees, do you perhaps have the total amount of this means for Croatian, Croatian citizens on the reduction of cross-border fees, for cross-border transactions, perhaps the Croatian Banking Association or the CNB? And the second question is, we were aware a few months ago of the introduction of various fees from the banking sector when you raise the cash they actually invented some new compensation and now the question is whether the government can react at all to such imaginary fees, simply when banks at one point miss money they invent a fee, if you want to raise your money with, with a counter and then take your fee and I think it's a problem with those fees, I know it's not part of this law, but there are problems later both to the government and legislation how to settle that compensation market in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182578	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182579	Thank you very much, these are more than constructive issues in the context of future life and way of working as citizens who use these services and business subjects, the whole mathematics is visible from the CNB website where this is published total amounts by types of income and by fees. What I have pointed out here as an eclectic example perhaps and this front just to point out, the present maximum 750,00 kn that has been translated some 100,00 EUR will be reduced to 100,00 kn, so that is a multiple amount that will be lower. Indeed, prices in both the EU and other EU Member States that are not in the euro area are subject to market conditions and these are also possible events that you mention, but I believe that these market conditions will lead to individual users being committed to those banks that provide them with a better and cheaper service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182580	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182581	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, 2013 With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, we implemented these two regulations concerning cross-border payments. In the EU, 2019. we adopt or implement a new regulation relating to the compensation for the recalculation of currencies. In particular, we get a lot of things under the radar, and we don't see things about these regulations and benefits for our citizens. Therefore, for the citizens of the legal person and for the natural persons, this Regulation is extremely significant because the fees are actually equalised as payments in the Kunska or national currency. This means that they have reduced, reduced fees, is it possible that you know the percentage amount or is it related to the nominal amount, or to the compensation of the bank itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182582	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182583	Here's a nice thank you, so you're right about this multiple amounts will be reduced, and each bank individually determines according to market conditions, but the rules are clearly set and these fronts that I mentioned earlier in the context of setting up transactions via the Internet, they can be reduced to 1 to 3,00 kn or other transactions that, when you come to the office they require some other type of services, such transactions will, by these calculations, statistically speaking of how prices are now set, be up to 100,00 kn instead of the previous 750, here thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182584	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, one very practical question, so we are aware that when a bank is forced to one side by law on one side of the discount, it is very often to raise on the other side, so banks will be forced to lower their fees as to only the implementation of this regulation or the law, and on the other hand it should be expected to raise some fees. Whether, despite the fact that you have just mentioned that it will regulate the market in itself, I think that there may be a stronger intervention and see that not on the one hand we get relief, and on the other hand, that, to be even again, so that what is said in the people water, water, then from all these application of the regulation and the law absolutely will have nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182586	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182587	Thank you very much. The application that stands in place and as a representative of Lalovac has just commented,... a squawk in terms of competition I am convinced that he will prevail here and that he will not be able to raise fees in his own way and expect users to come to you if you try to charge some services significantly more. This cannot in any way rule out that it will not happen on certain adjustments, but the market is inexorable. Secondly, if you have noticed all the time that business banks and all other economic operators are moving to other types of service delivery and today you will see that they stimulate you to do such transactions and payments yourself from home to Internet banking, not to come to businesses, and they need to provide workers and infrastructure. I mean, in other words, they won't have to have business that costs, and in this way they can substitute in terms of price and the threshold of rentability per product down to the lower. Of course, I say business policy again and the market will do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182588	The next is the replica of the respected representative Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182589	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State. So it took you seven years to comply with the Law on Payments and the amount of compensation with the EU. In those seven years, you've allowed banks to rob our citizens undisturbed from any out-of-country transaction. No offense, but for a reason people are wondering who you're doing it for, for banks or for our citizens? It is only now that we are forced to comply with our law with European law. The banks regulated this a month ago because they had to, but yet the banks used poor Croatian laws and will charge additional ten kunas in transactions in branches under cover of fees for receiving and processing orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182590	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182591	Thank you very much. As you know, the Republic of Croatia joined the EU in 1.7.2013 and in that time it was obliged to comply with its legislation with EU specifics. And also today, we have over 60% of the regulations that are in line with this regulation that was passed last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182592	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. With this, we will begin the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182593	Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with an associate. Here is a law before us, so the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of EU rules in the area of payment transport with a final proposal, so once again the implementation of European laws and what we have heard now and in this debate, and through the reply received by the Secretary of State, it has been concluded that this is indeed a law that goes to the benefit of citizens and legal entities in the Republic of Croatia and, in any case, the HDZ Club will support this draft law in an emergency procedure. We believe that this is one of the laws where our citizens will really feel this on their wallet, more and more there are payments and online payments outside, there are online shopping, habits in the shop itself change from day to day. We may already as some middle-aged citizens of the Republic of Croatia may be less valid to purchase, but here these younger generations are increasingly using online payments and purchases and payments, so this will certainly reflect on the home budgets themselves. Therefore, each country within the economic system shall contain payment turnover whose function is to enable the use of money without cash payment transactions or transfer of payment funds between payers and recipients of those funds. It is very important to ensure the safe functioning of payment traffic, and because of the impact on the central bank which the institution is responsible for all participants and the entire financial system. The Republic of Croatia has regulated the functioning of payment traffic with a series of laws and regulations in accordance with which the CNB lays down sublegal regulations governing the enforcement of laws and regulations themselves. The laws and regulations governing the functioning of payment services in the Republic of Croatia are the Law on payment services, the Law on finality of intent in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Law on electronic money, the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation in the field of payment services and other EU rules. The payment turnover in the Republic of Croatia was regulated by the Law on Payments which entered into force on 28 July '18. and which regulates payment services and their providers, payment service providers' obligations, payment institutions and payment systems. The Law on Payment Transport in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia lays down the provisions of Directive 21152366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market. Regulation 924/09 obliges payment service providers in the European Economic Area to charge the fee charged to the payment service user for cross-border payments in the euro currency, so it was in Romania and Sweden because we were not then in the EU, to be equal to the fees they charge for the corresponding national payments of the same value in the same currency. The same Regulation obliges payment service providers to inform their payment service user about its IBAN and... service provider. This Regulation shall apply from 1 November 2009 to the Republic of Croatia from the date of its accession to the Union and from 1 July 2013. Regulation 260/2012 lays down rules for the implementation of credit transfers of direct debits in euro in the European Economic Area and the deadlines until which payment transactions are due to start in accordance with defined rules. The Regulation entered into force on 31 March 2012, and in the Republic of Croatia, as from 1 July 2013, respectively. It is important to note that the European Economic Area covers EU Member States and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law shall be the CNB and the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. The CNB and the Financial Inspectorate shall cooperate with other competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia as well as with other States competent to monitor the application of Regulation 924 of 2009, 260 of 2009 and Regulation 751 of 2015. If the complaint concerns payment service providers of another Member State providing payment service in the Republic of Croatia directly or through a representative. In order to facilitate the internal market and to remove deficiencies, it is necessary to ensure that fees for cross-border payments in the euro within the EU are equal to those for the corresponding national payments made in the national currency of the Member State in which the payment service provider is located benefiting from the payment service user. In order to enable payers to compare compensation for individual options of recalculation, service providers should publish comparable information on the fees applicable to the conversion of currencies to an easily understood, therefore in an easily understandable and accessible manner on their user websites. Accordingly, Regulation 518/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 was adopted in order to amend Regulation 924 of 2009 as regards certain fees for cross-border payments in the Union and recalculation fees. This Regulation provides for the equalisation of fees for cross-border payments in euro within the Union with fees for corresponding payments made in the national currency of the Member States which are binding on Member States. Regulation 2019/518 amends and supplementes Regulation 924/2009 applicable since the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. This proposal provides for competent authorities to monitor and resolve complaints, namely the CNB, the Financial Inspector and the State Inspectorate. Consumers in disputes with public service providers may initiate an alternative dispute settlement procedure before any alternative consumer dispute resolution body listed by the provider on their websites or in their offices. There is also the right of users of payment services which are not consumers to address disputes in relation to the Centre for Peace at the Chamber of Commerce, so that the procedure can be initiated before another body and there is the possibility of a court procedure. So once again, the HDZ Club will support this draft law in an emergency procedure, and I would like to say once again that we should follow absolutely the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Internet sites so that they can decide where to do their services and where they can pass as cheaply as possible, with a note that here we all have to follow together how banks will behave after applying this law so as not to raise charges on another item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182594	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretary with an associate, so today we have this law, which is proposed for the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council Regulation of 19 March 2019 on certain fees for cross-border payments in the Union and payments for cross-border currencies. The Regulation shall equalise fees for cross-border payments in EUR with fees for corresponding national payments in the currency of the Member States in order to remove the inequality existing in cross-border payments in EUR between payment service users in euro area Member States and those Member States outside the euro area. I'll stop right here. So there have already been speeches here today, but I agree when we say nominally that the market should do its own, its own process, but the EU itself or EU bodies regulate something that should be regulated by the market. Which means that with the intervention of the European Parliament itself, and now we are entering into our Croatian Parliament something that should have been regulated by the market. So there's a market somewhere in some instruments and it doesn't work like it should, and that's actually the application of this law to be passed on the single European market because when we talk behind this law and we're talking about the Capital Market Act and some single European capital and financial services market, it's through this law that what we're talking about is not done, meaning not only in Croatia, but also between other countries probably Austria, Italy and Germany, France and other countries, although a number of financial institutions operate there, it's likely that a number of illogicalities happened at the time, and the European Parliament said that the market is not fully functioning, and therefore they are also adopting this directive. The most important changes in relation to the applicable law are identified by the competent authorities for the implementation of the regulation, namely the CNB and the Financial Inspectorate and the State Inspectorate. The market inspection of the State Inspector shall be carried out by the supervisory authorities of the application of the Regulation which are not payment service providers and which provide a currency recalculation service at the point of sale or at the ATM. I hope that, in view of all this, that the state inspectorate is also a state inspectorate and everyone is actually ready for this application because this isn't exactly their regular job that they've actually been doing, that they've been some sort of basic part of the business, so we hope that if it comes to that part that theirs is going to be extra educations, or additional efforts, and they're going to be able to control it. How important this law is for Croatian citizens I will try to illustrate through some data that has actually been taken out of the CNB page on the importance of payment services, or how much these fees are paid in Croatia, how many Croats own these financial instruments in the first place. So according to CNB data, what's visible from the crisis somewhere there in 2006 before the crisis until today, somewhere in 2018, the number of cards has doubled, so the number of cards has doubled so that today's average Croat in his wallet has at least two payment cards, it's actually the reality of the Croatian financial market, which the Republic of Croatia places not only at the very top, I think we're the first country in the EU as many Croatians have business cards. At the same time, 32% of consumers and 55% of business entities in the Republic of Croatia have contracted Internet banking. Where an analysis of the structure of the number of national security payment transactions is made at the level of 2018. It can be concluded that the largest part of 38% refers to the number, refers to credit transfers, means the largest part of all payment transactions carried out in the Republic of Croatia 38% refers to transactions related to credit transfers, then by payment cards the share is 36% and the debt transaction without orders with a share of around 20%. So when talking about some amounts or volume means 850 million transactions are made within a year, 850 million initial orders for transactions worth more than two thousand billion kunas, so these are transactions all bound up to mean that they are initiated as payment orders. When we talk about these payment orders, we focus most here on Croatian citizens, the total number of payment transactions made using account payment services, means citizens who pay bills in the Republic of Croatia in 2018. There were 23 million transactions, just to get the term, so later we'll come up with how many of these fees are actually recorded in the bank balance sheets by 23 million, the total value of $5.4 billion, so the annual citizens are paying their $5.4 billion bills, initiating 23 million transactions. The average value of transactions executed using account payment services is 234,00 kn is average. For example, direct charge services. the payment of liabilities for municipal services, the payment of costs per card with a delayed charge is about 27,5 million transactions and the value of around 20 billion kuna and a permanent account, means the execution of the consumer's bill is about 22 million transactions and the amount of around 14 billion kuna, the average value of the permanent order in the Republic of Croatia for consumers, for the citizen is around 629,00 kn, means the number of national card transactions, so here we were only talking about the initiation of these payment services. However, the number of national card transactions paid by cards is 309 million transactions, so just to get the notion of what that is, how much volume, how much the volume of the transaction is related to payment services, and what value is 59 billion kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Croatian citizens owned 6.7 million debit cards, meaning 6.7 million debit payment cards, and those 1.9 million were credit payment transactions, when summed up, came up with this information that means each Croat has two cards, so in the Republic of Croatia there are about 8.6 million cards, 8.6 million cards, 4.2 million inhabitants, so the Republic of Croatia is at the top of the EU by number, by the number of cards, means each Croatian has two cards. To see little what it is like in other neighboring countries, for example Slovenians have 3.3 million cards, so 1.6 per capita, Bulgaria has one card, so around them there are 7.5 million cards, Hungary 8.9 million cards have less than one card per capita, Czechs also around one card per capita and Slovaks around exactly one card per capita, so we compare with those countries we compare with, so Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Slovenia, we see that in the EU's top, the number of cards. The EU average is that they have about 1.6 cards per capita, so the Republic of Croatia is about two or two cards, why I say that, to see how important they are for Croatian citizens, since a large number of transactions are being carried out, I have listed here certain specific numbers of how many transactions are being made, how many Croats have the cards and how much fees for them, and that is why this law is important and for, and I say, and we support it in this context so that it is seen that banks annually on the basis of fees and commissions, and we know that interest rates are now being reduced, interest expenditures are being reduced and the bank's interest income from their particular business, we see that average interest can come to between 3% and 4%. The majority of their income or business is now focused on fees and fees, and last year they had gross revenue from fees and fees of about 4.8 billion kuna, 4.8 billion kuna is actually the income of the banking system for Croatian citizens, primarily because here we talked about millions of transactions and for Croatian businesses, and they have some costs, their costs are about 1.5 billion, meaning net interest income, net interest income only based on fees and fees in the Republic of Croatia were around 3.3 billion kuna last year. Now, you see, what I said, what, who has to do in the economy, who has to do in production, do employment, do industry, do export business, do basic economic activities, and take those who do business in industry, hire, the government that gives incentives to someone to deal with the economy so that they have a positive balance, to export, to be competitive and now take from the other side someone who deals with fees and fees that in the Republic of Croatia earns 3.3 billion kuna, take that part, means we can't affect it, we all now say that there are imbalances, and here, so I'm supposed to ask us as legislators, and we see that the EU Governments or the European Parliament intervened through this law to reduce fees, so this is their proposal that they know that there are imbalances and in the European market, so what we're supposed to tell you about the Croatian market after you've paid your fees, so if you can're not paid up to the money, so now, so if you're paid up to the money, so you'll pay up to 750. And then you get this amount of 4.8 billion kuna, and now you find that activity in the Republic of Croatia, I say industry, export-oriented, employment, etc., find that industry that is profitable in such a way that it can deal with this kind of, this level of fees and commission. So we have no problem with the fact that banks have to, have certain costs, however, making some extra profits, and we have seen also through this very application of this directive was actually an extra profit. So extra profit, if they could do something for 750 kn across the border, they're going to fall to 100 kuna. Now the question of real these costs is being raised and why the European countries are starting to intervene more and more on the market for banking and financial services. Because it's actually simple for people to talk, it doesn't pay you to do industry, not pay you to do production, export, etc., come only to the market, the market where you can actually do your so-called. Monopoly or oligopol because they're all, with the banking system gone, there's no market. It's an oligopol, they 5.6 actually when you set such a price service actually you can't intervene because actually the state itself gives a team of twenty, where you have twenty economic operators on the market, we can't really talk about some strong market, when, so there are thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs we can talk about the competition, but if you have them, and for some services where I've been extracting, you can, for example, Only 14 business entities or banks are dealing with a certain type of service, the question among them is 15 whether there is a market. So, regarding this business and compensation, the question arises as to what the Croatian government can do, not alone, but, of course, through its colleagues in the EU, in terms of constraint and fair market business, because it is not exactly, I say, when placed on the Croatian economy, the possibilities of Croatian economy to say that someone is only on fees and fees for 3.5 billion kuna per year, and that is precisely for Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, it is precisely, it is huge money, big money, and I say, on the other hand, when we see what degree of Croatian economy it is, the question is that one day they will probably have to regulate it, especially by making up numerous fees every day. I say, we welcome that this has now become even, it has been put on the CNB page, and now as citizens, everyone can see how much it is, but they have no alternative again and they have no possible alternative to go anywhere else. So, I welcome this law, so the SDP Club will support it and I say, in some of the actions and parts of the business segments where the state directly gives such financial entities the opportunity to provide financial services, I think, although it gives them the ability to deal with it, that the state has the obligation to regulate it, that part of it is still established because it cannot only live in Croatia on fees and fees and commissions, because if we only set out that we will live on tourism, from rent, from fees and commissions, we simply choke on those healthy foundations of industry, such as exports, industry and what in the long term carries the only additional value and therefore I welcome this part of the law and I believe that in the future, at least, the government will gain some strength through joint legislative proposals with the EU Parliament, that this market is still being limited and that it goes in the end in favour of consumers. Once again, I support this law and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182596	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics, and will speak on behalf of the club, respected representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182597	Thank you, Vice President of the HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, welcome our club first and foremost that this law is in an emergency procedure. It would be ideal for today to have us, now there's enough of us to adopt that law immediately. Namely, according to some estimates, my colleague Lalovec was here with data, I think he said that he was only bound to commissions for these transfers is profit banks somewhere around, over 3 billion kuna. I'm not sure if it's the right information, I didn't find that by applying this law, so by implementing this Regulation, entrepreneurs and citizens would be saving about a billion kunas somewhere. That information seems pretty high to me, but let's assume it's possible. That is why the law is extremely important, both for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. Therefore, Regulation 518/2019 amends Regulation 924/2009 where compensation for cross-border payments is introduced must be equal to the fees taken by banks for internal payments within the country. And the other thing, which is now, I would like the secretary of state to explain it to us, and it is about the conversion of payments, is now the same in this law already introduced, or is it waiting another year, somewhere I read that, when it comes to conversion, if you pay some product or service in another country, you can pay in local currency or you can pay in kuna, and that the conversion is done directly, or that later costs will come when, if you pay in local currency and there, that truth law cannot determine the amount of those conversion fees, but it can also ask that service providers provide information which is more favourable to the user in that case. So, the aim of this law is to reduce the fees especially because the EU rests on the basic principle, which is the principle of ensuring a single market and therefore is not acceptable to the fees paid, which banks are taken to pay across borders that are so large, somewhere in Croatia is that at EUR 100 is the average of the bank's fees for cross-border payments, so I met myself once when I was due to pay, I think the bank was fixed 90 kn. I'm not sure when it comes to Internet banking whether this service is a service if you want to cross-border payment from a foreign exchange account, if you have to ask the bank for an additional package of services to be able to make such payments, I'm not sure because what's here has been warned that banks might increase other fees or the price of any other services, given the reduction in these fees. So whether it's Internet banking, mobile banking, whether it's about raising cash on ATMs in other countries, and the fees are trying to level this bill, and it certainly needs to be welcomed and it's good that it's in an emergency procedure. The EU countries have already applied this regulation since 15.12., so we are somewhat behind schedule, but as soon as we adopt the law, it will be better for both citizens and entrepreneurs. And once again it seems important to me to note, the amount of compensation the truth about that is what my colleague Lalovac was saying to the banks according to market principles, they are bound by the laws that are in place to inform about the amount of these fees so that the citizen can choose the most favourable bank. And that is this legal solution, which cannot determine the market, which is exactly the difference between payments, the amount of the country's payment fee and cross-border payments. And as soon as this law comes into force, it will, before the citizens, keep a significant portion of the funds in their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182598	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182599	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. This is when we talk about amendments to the Law implementing the EU regulation in the area of payment transport, it is important to say that this regulation covers almost all of our citizens, it is very important and regulates one very important area. Some colleagues and Žagar talked about how interest rates are dropping in Croatia, and now we see that they are at low levels, although some manage to achieve extremely low levels. We have now seen the current loan of one minister of 2% interest rate. Income or operating costs of banks are being transferred and revenues are being made more and more out of compensation. And now the question arises, when we look at the structure of bank income and bank profits, he began to be very expressive, so the revenues from fees are increasing year by year. For example, here I can give a personal example, it sounds amazing because a man doesn't follow it, but when I use Internet banking, I was able to make an expense on fees in one year, even though I typed the bills myself and paid the bills of 800 kuna, for the use of software, for using the payment turnover of the bank, the bank had no expense there, almost no cost because I did the job myself, entered and paid the bills, but 800 kuna cost me that in one year. And on the other hand, when you look at and how many people now either work outside or travel or unfortunately the demographic devastation of the Republic of Croatia has moved out of Croatia, we see how much that money actually lies and how much money the banks make. I am not saying that they do not have the right to make certain revenue on these transactions because it is their core business, the team is engaged, and normally it would be to level certain criteria at EU level in order to have identical operating conditions in Croatia and in some other countries. Although in Croatia unfortunately, our fellow citizens have a much worse situation than the Austrians, Germans or other EU citizens have on interest rates. So the interest rates in Croatia are still on average much more than in those countries where housing loans are for example. It can get less than 1%, and sometimes it's very close without interest at all, although in Croatia I say interest rates have fallen, some are making excellent interest rates as one minister in the HDZ government, 2% are really low, and that's where citizens can compare how they stand in that whole story. On the other hand, I'd like to say that this is one area that needs to be closely monitored and supervised. Is any transaction costing 100 kuna adequate, is that too much, is that something that actually maintains the cost of that whole transaction? The question is that I'm asking here in front of all of us, given how much our citizens are using it, more and more buying and buying goods outside of Croatia and paying through cards, something my colleague Lalovac was talking about, 6 million cards in a sheep's small country, a truly impressive number. So an average adult citizen has two cards each, is bought, spent, has certain transactions, and here I see a large space for a certain rationalisation of the costs of our fellow citizens who often do not see it on a daily basis. If you pay some bills several times you don't even see it in that account, if the bill is something bigger, did you spend 20.30 or 50 kuna. Another story that is very important, which is why I insist that we take more care of it is the amount of our fellow citizens who moved out of Croatia as the Prime Minister says, especially in parts of Croatia where the responsibility for governance has HDZ. For example, Slavonia has been completely devastated, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of our citizens have gone out of Croatia, so we have to deal with it. People leave not only to earn but to survive, to be able to live quality and to feel worthy of a society that is valued and able to advance or work in harmony with their abilities. Unfortunately, Croatia has not yet reached that level, I would say social awareness that our citizens feel good in the Republic of Croatia. I guarantee you that half of our people who leave looking for a job leave because they think that in Croatia they can't get a job in a fair way and then get a fair pay for the job, feel useful and, say, live with that money in a good way. It's amazing, but I know a few people who went to Ireland in the '50s because the first time here is after, people tell me after 20, 30 years those in Croatia couldn't afford a trip, etc. Now a man lives on a salary that is not something above average in Ireland, but does hard work, works in a warehouse, but can afford something that he and his family in Croatia could only dream of. And of course, what he does is valuable and that he sees that he can make progress whether someone in the family helped him or not. Like in some of our companies, for example, or in the city administration, you have entire families of employees who work there, so people are particularly sensitive and that's why they're leaving. And that's why we have hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who then, as some colleagues have said, send money from outside, pay a variety of things outside and then of course there's room for big benefits that, in that case, if they're not controlled, if they're not even, it might happen that our fellow citizens have a more unfavourable situation than some other countries have. So this law by me needs to be adopted as soon as possible, when spoken and when you see how many transactions have been made, how many of our fellow citizens have been involved in these transactions. Of course, it's an extremely important law because if we're talking about nearly a billion transactions, if we're talking about the 6 million cards our fellow citizens have, that means that anyone who's dealing with pay traffic, who's buying something, who's had a certain transaction with another country in the EU is involved in this whole story, and the sooner we bring it in better. Perhaps if you would like to say and suggest to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a future period, there is no need for the adoption of these laws to wait nine or ten months for who it is now because it can be relatively soon after adoption on European bodies, on the European Parliament and on the European Council, it can be transferred and applied to the Republic of Croatia within a few months. Maybe during this period we've now missed, so maybe six, seven months we could have had less costs for our fellow citizens. We may also learn these things during the presidency. We see that yesterday the first Croatian minister chaired the European Council, on this side of such a kind of urgency or faster work, I think that Croatian citizens would also support it, especially when it comes to laws that will probably not have a serious opponent here except for those who may possibly be able to because of the gesture or to show that they are not for the EU and that they are against us to remain part of the EU to vote against such laws. But I think that when we have laws that achieve a high level of consent, where there's no problem that we can do it relatively quickly and apply it through the ministry and de facto for only a few months we can have legislation that guarantees us a better position for our citizens than they have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182600	Thank you. We've got some replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182601	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. According to unofficial data, somewhere around 2,000 people in the Republic of Croatia who are part of their internship or most of their internships or the whole internship in the area of the former Yugoslavia have gained significantly lower pensions by a new calculation. What is not good is that the protection mechanism has not been made so that citizens are not pushed deeper into poverty, but in the context of this debate these citizens are now obliged to open foreign exchange accounts, and the currencies do not fall within the euro area, so they are exempt from this law and we can assume that the banks will also introduce new costs of converting their income from these other countries now and that they will thus get even less pensions there and thus have to pay certain fees. That problem should certainly be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182602	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182603	Mr. Zhagar, you have well noticed that there is one part of our non-EU citizens, this is what obliges us to make the EU unique in the EU as a whole, and that is good, but the state does not limit anything from making its own regulation that would apply to others. So on this side, countries can apply their legislation and eventually protect those citizens you are talking about and who are not exclusively related to the EU area and are making certain incomes, pensions or something else, and have, for example, achieved them in the US or I don't know in some countries outside the EU. So it can be done independently of this law, the question is whether the people who propose the laws took care of it and whether it's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182604	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about core business banks or reducing interest rates and transferring that part now to compensation. I think it's bad is it actually banks have a function, they have a much wider function to encourage little entrepreneurship, encourage exports, industry, and not the most. And in that part where they encourage there's no problem with them making a certain part of the money. However, earning exclusively on fees, commissions or other words to force citizens into a cash-paying cash-paying charge when you said that you yourself were completing a certain function, meaning a non-cash payment, initiating 800 kuna yourself, simply making you go into cash-paying again, and I don't think that's good because if all these platforms that are completely cheap today were to be cheap and services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182606	The next line is, and I'm sorry for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182607	Thank you very much. It's something I think our fellow citizens can spot every day. So, when you see that one service 5 years ago or a story 4 years ago cost the same as it is today when it's used 5 times as much, when people are learning, they're promoted via smart phones, pictures, bills that are really something that makes it easier for people not only but also for banks. At that end they can rationalise their business, reduce the number of people, close businesses as many of them do, this illogical thing is that all the benefits of these fees remain exclusively in the profits of banks. So they should be reduced because I guess there are hundreds of thousands of people who pay their bills in the same way as me and the annual spending here's almost 1,000 kuna on what they've been doing and using the bank's software on their own. So these things need to be taken into account in the future so they don't just spill over into bank profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182608	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182609	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, as already mentioned, this is an important decision and an important law that will contribute to improving and reducing the costs of both citizens and business entities. The fact is, that payment traffic has been a living organism that has been following itself many times since 2009, here since 2009 how many times regulatory changes have been made and how much harmonisation there has been, and all in order to make this payment turnover truly as high as possible, to make it as accessible as possible, and thus the banks have adapted and provided their services in accordance with the possibilities. This last Regulation, which has been amended and entered into force on 18 April 2019 in the EU, has since then been an obligation to bring all other national economies into line and has been an obligation for Member States to do so and has been applied since 15 December 2019. Thus, according to this, Croatia wants to contribute and bring its legislation into line. First, she would say what the objective of introducing the principle of equality of compensation is. Mostly in the EU, when we know the Member States in the euro area, it is certainly necessary for all citizens and business entities to be as competitive as possible and thus in the circulation and exchange of goods and in the EU economy, consumers will be able to carry out and receive transactions from other Member States with significantly lower fees. The Secretary of State has already mentioned what this means and how important it will reduce compensation for citizens, and also in cross-border cooperation, which means for business entities. Also, citizens in raising cash on ATMs will have as much lower fees than they have been so far. This is important for those who go abroad, either in private or in EU countries. For business entities, too, ours will have an impact on increasing their competitiveness and thus reducing costs. When we talk about these costs then it is important to note what is already mentioned that the said equality, the fee applies exclusively to the equality between the euro and the kuna, and not other currencies, but since we are focused in fact on the EU market, most of which is very important. So when we talk about, say, clients who are, who are resident in another EU country, they will, for example. to pay a communal fee or other expenses, and they have here real estate in Croatia will have lower costs and payment fees for example. Internet banking, and also for us vice versa. It is also important to note that this obligation of equality of compensation under the regulation applies to fees when we have payments of credit transfers in kunas, for example, which are given in business offices. a paper warrant and cross-border also credit transfers in EUR that are assigned in paper accounts. So these fees are even. They are also transfers in kuna via online banking and also in EUR. Also, they are transfers in kunas through mobile banking, then inflows to pay in kunas and raising money. The fact is that there is a legitimate, justifiable fear of what will happen with the fees and what banks will do now when these fees are lower and the possibility of introducing other fees due to the reduced revenues resulting from these reasons, however, precisely for this reason the literacy and availability of information that exists to citizens and in parallel data and that you can get on the CNB sites where each citizen can inform about the prices of each individual bank and may always react and possibly change the bank in case he considers that there is a fee which, there is this market mechanism that acts where then indeed citizens and entrepreneurs will be able to change this bank by transferring an account to another bank. I have to say that in that part, too, in fact, by choosing this new bank, this new bank is taking over all, all the business communication and changes to be made, so neither the citizens nor the legal person is in that case denied that there are any additional jobs to be done and this is wasting time to open a new account. Therefore, since November 2018, these current fees can be found on the CNB's pages and thus, this application can be very easy to determine and choose the most favourable bank. Therefore, all of this as it seems and in the part where the infringement provisions are regulated in this way is more clearly defined by the obligations and bodies which, which will monitor and all the other procedures that are necessary in the procedure itself and here I believe that in this way they will make a significant contribution to the fact that regardless of all the fees we pay, they must be in a certain way clear, and I say to us as users to determine where we are and how most favourable, but in any case this will reduce the costs of citizens and business entities in relations as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182610	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182611	We are now going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation in the field of payment, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 818. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 112 for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the EU Regulation in the field of payment transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182612	Now we're going to the next point, which is: - Final draft law amending the Capital Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 760. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182613	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of HS, MPs and MPs, for the debate on this proposal of the law was concluded on 23 October of last year because at its 14th session held on 31 October, HS concluded the proposal, and all comments, proposals and opinions were sent to us as a proposal for a final draft of the law. These final draft laws have made certain amendments to the draft laws resulting from the adoption of the provisions and proposals, the observations and the proposal of the Legislative Committee, the authorities of the State Administration and other bodies, and the amendments made by the Proposer himself, in order to make the application of certain provisions more clear. In this respect, nomotechnical statements of some 20 articles of the law have been made in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Law, and the provisions of the Article have then been developed. 4th and 5th in such a way that they are sent, prescribes the need for prior notification or approval by the regulator i.e. HANFAs for the intended, direct or indirect acquisition or alienation of a qualifying stake in an investment company, and for the crossing of the 10% threshold, shall then be completed. The 9th Act, in a way that makes it more clear and transparent about the performance of the service provider's tasks, is governed by a separate Article of the Law. In accordance with the opinions of the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice, articles have also been completed... in relation to the general administrative procedure, and as regards the Ministry of Justice, in a way that clearly determines will be the infringements provided for in this law. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] would only briefly remind you of the basic reasons why this bill was drawn up at the time of the first reading in HS, so the reasons were also the news that led to the so-called “. ” [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It directly applies to all EU Member States and which fully replaces the current legal framework in relation to the prospectus. Namely, the prospectus Regulation, the full name of which is Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the public supply of securities or when entering for trading on a regulated market outside the scope of the Prospectus Directive No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following other news is the following: the threshold for the release of the prospectus has been raised; the new rules in the prospectus do not apply to the issue of securities with a value of less than EUR 1 million; before that was EUR 100,000,00; it is clear that for our opportunities this is a relatively high threshold, but the rules have been adopted at EU level. In addition, for their domestic markets, Member States may exempt small issuers from the obligation to publish a prospectus by setting a higher threshold for the publication of a prospectus from the existing EUR 5 million at EUR 8 million in kuna equivalent to the obligation to produce an information document on the offer of all offers of securities between EUR 4 million and EUR 8 million, which is an administrative discharge, i.e. the intention of administrative discharge for issuers and tenderers. Then there are these provisions that we have already mentioned, the language which must be drawn up prospectuses and the language in which translations of the summary will be available in cross-border offers and inclusions. Furthermore, the jurisdiction of the supervisory authority and the infringement provisions relating to infringements of the provisions of the Regulation shall be laid down as the authority responsible for the implementation of the prospectus Regulation. In addition, the conditions under which investment firms and credit institutions may carry out services of a service provider relating to securitisation operations have been amended, and in accordance with the Securitisation Regulation, which since 1 January '19. Directly applied to Member States as well as to the Republic of Croatia, with a note as we have said that the Securitisation Regulation itself would be subject to a specific law. The provisions of the bill make use of the national discretion set out in the Financial Instruments Directive, etc. MF2 Directives allowing trades operating on the market for financial services such as insurance agents shall carry out the activities of the intervention market in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Market Act. As regards the Fund for the Protection of Investments, which has been established and established by the central clearing of the depositary company, due to the disproportionateity of the costs incurred on the burden of the Fund, the obligation to audit the fund is lifted and a special supervisory measure under which the HANFA may impose a review of the financial reports under the already existing prescribed measure that the HANFA may reject financial reports. The proposal for a law also develops and improves provisions relating to corporate governance regarding a new way of collecting, processing and publishing data. The latter Regulation also amended the definition of small and medium-sized issuers in terms of setting a new threshold for their categorisation in such a way as to raise the threshold for market capitalisation from EUR 100 to EUR 200 million, thus equating the definition of small and medium-sized issuers with the definition set out in the MF2 Directive. I repeat again, these are the thresholds which are significant, high but EU-level criteria are set for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, thus also through the MF Directive which is reflected in the norm of this law. Furthermore, the possibility of creating a new type of prospectus is being introduced. The EU's growth prospectus thus providing a simpler prospectus for small societies and small editions. Furthermore, issuers that have included securities on a regulated market or a growing market for small and medium-sized enterprises also have at their disposal such as.../incomprehensible/... that is, so-called. the simplified prospectus for secondary issues or offers. The second advantage for listed issuers on a regulated market or on a multilateral trading platform is certainly a new regime for the production of so-called ‘produced’. the universal registration document containing the basic information on the issuer, and once the regulator approves that document two consecutive years, it is no longer necessary to submit it for approval and the issuer acquires the so-called so-called ‘registration’. the status of the common issuer. In conclusion, the revised part of the provisions of the law for the sake of clarity and legal certainty and conductability and nomotechnical and explicit corrections in order to make clear and more precise statements of the law itself. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182614	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, so we have a proposal for a Capital Market Act right away, so one of the most complicated seems to me to be one of the most complex laws perhaps discussed here and over 120 articles of very professional and specific matter which, even within those institutions themselves, you must have special people or departments that study such specific and professional matter. Here is the debate that shows that on behalf of the clubs, me and my colleague Shucker may be discussing it, which we met within the Ministry of Finance, and also with financial markets, especially when issuing certain securities, which unfortunately did not live in the Republic of Croatia in the last 30 years. It means that the capital market is one of the ways to raise capital, to be, in fact, the main function of the capital market, to raise capital from this part of the savings, to invest that capital, to have investment potential, or thus to boost and develop the economy. Unfortunately, in Croatia there is a capital market with numerous and incentives from the state, and we know that the biggest transactions actually took place on the capital market only when the state was some kind of arrangement or through some not only through bonds but also through certain public companies located on the capital market, and unfortunately there is little effect beyond that as we would expect. We know, we are a small, small economy, there have been talks whether there may be some regional link to Slovenia and some other countries of this, but capital markets are mostly functioning in the United States and Britain, while other capital markets, I say, regardless of this unique European capital market directive, which will be interesting now by going out Brexit or Great Britain, which was actually like some kind of centre, financial centre in Europe, means their citi as a centre of financial services and banking business, the UK's question of whether it will now be Frankfurt, whether it will be Paris, which will actually be the capital market centre in the EU, and ultimately as it continues to spread to other countries. Therefore, this law further means the area of business of persons authorised to carry out financial instruments. Detailed trading conditions for financial instruments are set out and trading conditions for commodity derivatives and mission units and derivatives are laid down on mission derivatives. So you see very specific financial instruments that do not exist in the Republic of Croatia, do not trade, however, such financial instruments are partly traded on the EU market, so we also have to do so, so we must also introduce it through our legislation. It also introduced the Institute for the provision of data delivery services with the aim of maximising transparency and reducing data fragmentation. The protection of investors with a view to strengthening the framework for the provision of investment consulting and portfolio management services, as well as improving the quality of information provided to clients related to investment services provided, has been improved. This legislative proposal also introduces higher regulatory requirements in view of the development of technology and market infrastructure, and is related to trading platforms and high frequency and algorithmic trading. Immaterialised securities and the structure and authority of the central depository of securities, central other Contracting Parties and stock exchanges, and the rights and obligations of participants in the capital market, in particular in the area of the prohibition of trading on the basis of privileged information, the unlawful provision of privileged information and the manipulation of market abuse, which is certainly under a much larger scale, and much greater emphasis in the United States, much less in Europe, without talking about Eastern European countries. Here he also spoke about reducing or reducing the administrative barriers related to prospectuses, of the public offering of securities from the existing 5m euros to 8m euros in kuna equivalent to the obligation to produce an information document in the offer of all securities between 4 and 8m euros. And also, what's important here for those of you who deal with this part of society with limited liability, or insurance representatives, as you said here, I don't think anything changes for them, and there they are, we actually used some national discretion, and I think that's good. So considering those services they're doing. Then, you talked about the investor protection fund where there is, however, no particular audit, however, is given certain powers to the Agency, i.e. the HANFA is given that according to other entities, a supervisory opportunity to reject the financial report, i.e. to order the supervisory measure to audit. So this isn't a commitment right now, but the possibility of reviewing remains, so now that one barrier is removed, but if the agency recognizes that possibility, they can request an audit, right? That's what I understand. Also, on the other hand, a significant change relates to the additional powers of the corporate management agency in... in the sense of collecting and publishing information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those additions further strengthen the corporate governance of issuers whose financial instruments are placed on a regulated market without additional administrative financial burdens and the bill provides for supervisory measures that the Agency may impose where the information of the issuer is not expressed in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, thereby further harmonising the Agency's competence with the guidelines of the ESM or the implementation of the provisions. So a very professional, very specific law, I say, congratulations to colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, but still, no matter how many directives they are, it should still be translated correctly because we know it's not simple, it's just such a termology. Then clear the existing law, this is a proposal for a new law, so I didn't look at certain remarks from some of these external associates, I don't think there was anything more significant. So here we are, and on behalf of the SDP Club, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182616	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Colorful colleagues and colleagues. It is very difficult to speak in a subject like this, if you are not the first because practically if you would like to say anything, you must repeat what your predecessors have said, but I think that even though we are talking about one law that, by its size, may be the biggest legislative document this House adopts, I think there are over 700 and a few other articles. I think that we should pay particular attention, at least on behalf of the HDZ Club, to what the applicant said in the opening section that its adoption created key preconditions for the integration of the financial market into the single market of EU Member States and said, the Republic of Croatia has become part of the EU's single internal market and is obliged to allow the same application of EU rules through continued harmonisation of its regulatory framework. And now it's on behalf of the club, a few questions are being raised at the HDZ Club. First, we enter a single market where there is already one great experience in the handling, so to speak, the trade regulation of this law, and it is good that the proposer here in the light of this law says that the improved protection of investors with the aim of strengthening the framework for the provision of investment consulting and portfolio management services, therefore the legislator himself, is aware of this lack in Croatia. However, given what is happening in the EU and in Brexit, and also fellow Lalovac mentioned, the strongest financial centre, the European city of London, so there are practically the strongest transactions in the area, and it is known exactly when the state issues bonds, you go to certain financial centres, because there are probably the most interested, the most investors. Now the question is, what and how Europe will react in this case. Whether the financial centre will remain London or the EU community with the strength of its capital, its economy and its market will initiate the development of another centre because the logical thing is that with Wall Street, the EU will want practically another financial centre of the world and that is logical. And that must be one question to be raised. And why am I saying that? Well, unfortunately, many people in HS have said during these years that the practically Croatian capital market for mills has water, and there are no grains and you practically after two successful... but there was an initiator of the state, practically 3, Pliva, INA and this and HT, you had no more significant listing on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and this simply indicates that the consciousness and knowledge of this matter and the possibility especially at times when there was not as much money as there is today, you have as much money as you will today, wherever you turn, everyone offers it to you practically without interest only to place funds, so the stock market is a safe place where you can get to capital, but there, when you get to capital there, it also requires certain ways to behave and you can't do it exactly as you wish, and just because you're no longer the owners, you won't be the owners of 100% of the company comes practically in a certain way and property restructuring of the company. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the state has created a legislative framework on the one hand to develop the capital market, on the other hand it has practically protected those who want to invest in that capital market. However, what is the biggest tragedy in the Republic of Croatia to say so, if the Republic of Croatia with certain lists on this capital market does not offer something very likely that there will be no more significant traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange because when you look at the traffic of the Zagreb Stock Exchange then you will see that several companies in the Republic of Croatia have more gross traffic per year than the traffic of the Zagreb Stock Exchange and this best speaks about how much capital market in the Republic of Croatia is developed, how strong it is, and that I am not saying that in fact the Croatian state in terms of the Zagreb Stock Exchange can't do anything about this, and therefore the long term law has the idea of making the regional stock market, whether it has connected the Zagreb Stock Exchange with, up with the Vienna or even the fact that many banks have been able to do so much more with the money, and the fact that it's important to the fact that some of the law, according to Istanbul, however, the fact is that the Ministry of finance has really made this document, as the most important to the money that they have been made in the most important, the money, and the money, and the money that the money that the money, and the money that the money that the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money is not really, and the money, and the money, and the money that the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, the money, and the money, and the money, the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money of the money of the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182618	Thank you very much, we move on to individual debates, rather in individual debates, only Mr. Sasa Djujic answered, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate, said fellow Shucker that it's hard to speak when you're not first, and you can think how hard it is when you're third, after him and Laloveca speak, but I will, however, say something as short as in the first reading, I will personally support this law and I want to give you all the praise in the Ministry of Finance for making this law. In fact, we are a young country and as we are a young country and we are learning democracy, we are also learning the capital market and some of the things that have already been present and known for decades and this is one law new, I think, mainly with these changes that are, there is a lot of news, is a new one that has been adapting essentially the Croatian capital market to today's operating conditions and it is no doubt what my colleague Lalovac and colleague Schucker said that in some foreseeable time we can expect some changes because the capital market is developing and living, living this through a certain time and a new age are bringing some new things. What I want to point out, so I will not repeat myself on the solution of the good that this law is passed, I just want to say that we should continue, as I said in the first reading, that we should continue to work towards the capital market and our citizens, but also to companies because it is still a great unknown in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, that we are young people and young people, the young system of capitalism is in our country, people are in fact still having some fear of investing in the capital market, and that is where education should bring them closer, to the opportunities that, which are simply the capital market provides for them. They mentioned colleagues before me here putting Pliva, HT, on, on the listing of the stock market, I'm going to go back a little bit, and the last time I talked about HT, so on my own example, then the citizens bought shares and in fact most of them were quick as they were interest and how the shares of HT jumped from the initial price at which they were bought, it was somewhere in 2007 I remember, so somewhere, most of them were sold, I, for example, kept my shares and I got from that supplement that the government then donated to every 10 held shares, and when I watched that movement on the stock market ever since they were bought to this day, those are worth less than they were when I bought them, but when I looked through the dividend payments and all these ten years in fact, I earned them, and I made a significant profit, maybe 30, 40%. What's the point? The point is that basically the stock market shouldn't be in a hurry, earning fast and overnight, it's a long-term investment that, of course, carries some of its risks and where you can lose a lot, but it's an interesting area especially today. Today, when interest rates are very low and, say, you have low savings interest, then it is the area where citizens could invest the capital market, and there are again pension funds that normally invest their assets through investment in shares. And when we see how much money today is in the savings of citizens and how much money there is per house, then it's one big source of resources that could actually enter that capital market. And that's why citizens need to get closer through education. Mostly one of the problems that I see why companies do not want to, or find it difficult to decide to list their shares on the stock market and through the recapitalisation in such a way, I think that my colleague Schuker said something in that direction, that is that when you list your company's shares on the stock market, then all business to those company's staff solutions are publicly known because normally it affects the value of the shares and you have to publish it all and therefore many entrepreneurs still have a brake to find money through the list of their companies on the stock market. But we need to work on that in the future. Here's a few days ago, we had an example of a government shift in one bank, so I'm not talking now, which immediately reflected the fall of the bank's shares. As a matter of fact, after the chairman of the administration resigned, the shares fell already the same afternoon. So this shows that all events in listed companies have an impact on the value of shares. Mostly here are all the support of this law and keep going like this, the future time is bringing some new changes and we expect that, and all of you congratulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182620	Thank you, too. I see general love rules. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182621	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 760. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 112 for and 11 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182622	The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption, second reading, P.Z.E. No.754 Proposer is Government of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic of the Ministry of Health is with us if he wants to take the opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. The Water for Human Consumption Act regulates the health soundness of water for human consumption. The competent authority for the implementation of laws and the manner of reporting to the European Commission on the implementation of laws, obligations of legal persons carrying out water supply for human consumption in the Republic of Croatia, the manner and procedure of reporting in the event of deviations from the water compliance parameters for human consumption, monitoring and other official control of human consumption water health and their financing, and in order to protect human health from adverse impacts of any water pollution for human consumption and ensuring the health of water for human consumption in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The European Commission sent a letter to the Republic of Croatia on 8 March 2019 for the failure of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 3(3), Article 4(1) and Article 6(2) and Article 6(3) thereof. Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality of water intended for human consumption. The Government of the Republic of Croatia responded to a letter of formal notice from the European Commission concerning the quality of water and, within the meaning of the above, took the obligation to comply. In relation to the individual supply relating to the use of private containers, tanks and the like, and using the exemption right referred to in Article 3(2) of Directive 98/83 EC, the notion of individual water supply is introduced by law, supplementing the provisions on the notification of residents on individual water supply systems as well as provisions relating to the consultation of the affected population from local and individual water supply, and notifying through public health services in units of the local self-government and with a view to protecting consumers through the notification of the population and giving appropriate advice. Furthermore, in order to comply with point (a) of Article 4(1) and point (a) of Article 6(1) and Council Directive 98/83/EC, the legislative proposal provides for a language-based development of the concept of healthable water for human consumption and the concept of a place of consumption. In order to comply with the provision of Article 6(3), The Directives will complement the provisions on the responsibility of the owner of the internal network in the event of a derogation from the compliance parameters at the place of consumption of water intended for human consumption, resulting from an inappropriate internal network or its poor maintenance in such a way as to ensure that, in addition to the owner, the internal network user is responsible. The final proposal for a law is further nomtechnically regulated in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on Law on Consumers' Tips for Water Used for Human Consumption from Individual Water Supply in relation to the powers of the Sanitary Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate for Treatment in the event of a derogation from the compliance parameters at the place of exit from the water tap intended for human consumption and the different grouping of infringement provisions in the added Article 46b. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182624	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary of State, you have one replica of Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182625	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, my replica is the continuation of what we heard at the Health Committee session, since there is no president, so I would repeat that question. So we heard you mention yourself that termologically harmonizes the term “at the place of consumption” with the term “at the place of exit from the faucet”, but that the whole text does not do so. So I urge you to maybe change the entire legal text by amending the government until the vote so that the whole text is harmonised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182626	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182627	Thank you, well-respected parliamentary representative Jovanovic, so we will check the text if there has been an accident of this nomotechnical error we will then correct with the amendment of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182628	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Pero Cosic, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since this final bill contains important amendments, I will remind myself of the reasons, the importance and the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Water Act for Human Consumption. In particular, the harmonisation of the proposed law with Directive 98/83 of the European Community is aimed at protecting the health of its citizens against the negative effects of any water pollution intended for human consumption by ensuring its health and cleanliness. Croatia is classified within 30 waters of the richest countries in the world, in Europe we are also among the first, therefore preserving this resource is of invaluable importance. As we treat it not only affects our health, but also all life that depends on water, and Europe has paid particular attention to the quality of water in recent decades, significant progress has been made on the regulation of a number of issues that are related to water protection for both human consumption and issues related to the preservation of rivers, seas and oceans. The importance of water protection is prescribed by a series of directives, some relating to the protection of water for human consumption, some to the regulation and expansion of waste water, to the protection against the harmful effects of water, means floods, environmental protection, maritime strategies and others. And now we assume the obligation of further harmonisation of the law with the directive in question, which requires, among other things, that water is intended for human consumption to be healthy and clean if it is free from any micro-organisms and parasites and any substance that poses a potential risk to human health in certain numbers and concentrations. In the Republic of Croatia, we have public, local and individual water supplies. In 2018 133 legal entities engaged in public water supply activities and 220 local water pipelines acted. It is estimated that close to 90% of our population is connected to public water supply, to a local something of about 1.5%, which means that almost 10% of our population is not connected to public water. As for drinking water pollution in the Republic, we must point out that the health and cleanness of drinking water in public water lines is regularly controlled and monitored and there is no greater cause for concern for our residents who use public water lines. There is, of course, the possibility of various acids and soil pollution, the underground and, unfortunately, the plumber within the sanitary protection zone of the station, but this rapid and effective recovery and regular monitoring of the water carrier within the sanitary zones of protection, meaning outside of the draining site can be prevented in time from polluting the drain itself, and thus also from contaminating drinking water in the distribution network. Compared to public water supply, local water supply from a health perspective poses a higher risk because water is supplied to consumers without any treatment, and unfortunately often without disinfection. In 2018, more than half of the samples from these local water lines were medically incorrect, mostly due to the presence of bacteria and increased iron and arsenic concentrations. Water pollution to bacteria generally comes from the surface and it is related to human activity, while increased arsenic and iron content is generally not due to human activity but to the composition of the soil through which the water passes. Today, problems with the saddle have been observed here and recorded in many countries of the world and in different geological environments, and therefore it is important to monitor the quality of water in these local waters. This legislative proposal also introduces the notion of individual water supply and refers to individual water supply provided that consumption is less than 10m3 per day and is intended for less than 50 persons. This is usually water from wells, wells, tanks, etc., which can often be questionable health correctness due to various pollutions in the midst of heavy rains, floods, influences of underground flows and others. For these reasons, the health soundness of this water is constantly changing, and these facilities are not in the surveillance system, but are being monitored at the personal request of the owner. In this respect, I would stress that this law complements the applicable provisions and prescribes a new obligation for units of local self-government in which the individual water supply systems are located and, in the spirit of this law, local self-government is obliged to inform citizens that they are excluded from the monitoring plan and that the water used from these facilities is potentially healthy and may have negative health effects. In the event that health failure is proved in any way, it should then be given advice to the competent public health authority on how this water can and in any way may be used or should not be used further. The advice and provisions of this Regulation must also be published on the website of the Public Health Office of the County concerned. And finally, here, given the amount of water resources and the supply of drinking water that we have in Croatia, it is our obligation to provide all citizens, as well as all future generations, healthy drinking water from taps. Following the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182630	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Pusic, who will present the position of the GLAS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the amendments and additions to the Water Act for Human Consumption, and this is now supposed to be a definitive version since we're in another reading. I'm not going to repeat what the document says, as far as the overall situation is concerned. I'm gonna concentrate on behalf of the GLAS Club on two questions and I hope we can resolve it here. So it seems to me the main question about this law is who and how will determine the quality of the water coming out of the tap? In this one, or out of the pipe, is it? This law provides, therefore, for the main or greatest article of these amendments and additions to the law to be the one relating to penalties. Penalties are intended for legal persons, natural persons in legal persons, natural persons and natural persons. So, citizens are also foreseen, if I understand well for users, so also users, those who use that water, we who use that water at home are responsible for the quality of that water and those who use it on internal networks. My question here is, will that, first of all, I assume, as the law shows, that it will be controlled by inspectors, how will it be controlled by inspectors? Is he going to enter the apartment? Will they only enter the apartment at the request of the people who use that water? By all accounts here, there are no more internal laboratories that should have and existed and were to be part of the water supply and to control from the position of those who provide water supplies when they control the quality of that water. For a simple example. For example, I doubt that I as the end-user lead out of a pipe, that water in my house, for example. It's not high-quality. I'm calling the inspector. Is this inspector going to charge me immediately and 500 kn, as far as it's supposed to be, because as an end-user on the internal network, I didn't make sure that a 100-year-old water distribution system in my house changes or that it's up-to-date, so to speak, and that's true for the whole, let's say, in Zagreb, for the whole of Donji City is in such a situation. So, if I suspect that the pipes are in my internal network, so to speak, that water is distributed to a residential building where people say, live, in the Lower Town, Zagreb houses, that something is wrong, as we all know who we live with, and who do little of it, know that they were mostly lead pipes, that God is asking you, in the meantime, what they look like, mostly lace from how much water they lose. Do I now have a responsibility as the final beneficiary of tap water, so I'm paying the fine if I haven't changed the distribution system in the house. If the end-user had to pay for the lab then, since these internal laboratories seem to no longer exist that were an integral part of the water supply. Therefore, this law provides for penalties, including for people who use water, who release water from the pipe, and it is not overlooked how to prevent this water from being of poor quality, or how it will be achieved to control it in a system and ensure that this water is a decent quality. In my house, no one's ever tried and questioned the quality of water. I accidentally did it myself once, and there's more lead than there should be. So, what does that mean? Now you're going to charge me 500 kn, because I haven't changed the system in the apartment building, and there's no institute that's hence the grandmother of any organization, institutions, laboratories that would officially question and control it. And the second question that kind of comes out of this first one that I put out there, why? Why there are no internal laboratories controlling the quality of water, which, by official duty, existed. Is it perhaps a step toward future privatisation of the water supply system? If this is a very serious issue because it has been shown, therefore, that difference between treating it as a commodity and it as a service or something, let's say the rights and, and the insured, secured service that the state or the units of local self-government provides, that difference is huge, that difference has proved so drastic in many countries and large cities of the world that some of them have gone to privatization of the water supply system and after some time put it back to public service because it's already invented, because they've tried a) the water price exponentially jumped and b) the quality has dropped, so many others have tried to go to such a water supply model and it's proven by all points of catastrophic and have returned to public service, namely, they've tried large cities, ha what I know, Berlin, but many others have tried to go to such a water supply model and it's proven by all points, and they've come back to the wrongly to say it's not to the law, but to the law of the law of the law of the G. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182632	Thank you very much. Now Mr Zeljko Jovanovic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182633	Thank you, Vice-President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support these legislative changes because they aim to protect people's health from the adverse effects of any water pollution for human consumption and to ensure the health of water for human consumption. In my brief discussion, I will remind you once again that when it comes to water supply in the Republic of Croatia, it is at a very high level of development, however, it should be noted that although 94% of the population in the Republic of Croatia has the possibility of joining, only 84% is really connected and this is a key challenge, so there is a huge disproportionateity in water stocks because the reserves are concentrated in a relatively smaller area, while at the same time the availability of drinking water is the worst condition, for example. in the Bjelovar-Bylogorska County where only 55% of the population has the possibility of joining the health water for drinking from public systems, while on the other hand, the best condition in Istria is 99.2%, the Primorje-Gorski County 99.1% and the City of Zagreb 95.3%, so these are huge differences and if we want to ensure even development in all parts of the Republic, it is certainly a challenge that is ahead of us to increase the percentage of accession in parts of the Republic where it is not. But what needs to be pointed out today is that despite being satisfied with this situation where even 94% of the population has the possibility of joining, it is a completely different situation in public discharge, so in the Republic of Croatia, public discharge is available in only 47% of the population, and the standard would be around 60%, so this is the next challenge that we are facing to get closer to the counties where it is over 50%, which is unfortunately only 4, so Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, Zagreb and Osijek County are the only ones in which the percentage of the integration into public discharge is greater than 50%, and as I said, the goal is 60%, but this law is how safe it is to protect people's health from the adverse effects of any water pollution on human consumption provides greater water health for human consumption, and therefore, the SDP Club supports this change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182634	Thank you very much. Before we move to individual debates, I will take the opportunity to welcome students and students of the Student House Ivan Mažuranić from Zagreb, they are here with us, thank you for being with us and we are pleased. ... We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so as my predecessors have said, this is one very important law for human health because it regulates the health regularity of water that should be available to all our citizens and I want to highlight here two things, so I will not enter these provisions because this is a very extensive law, it means over the table and some pages, regulates this criminal part, for the first time, it prescribes water for individual use, but what I want to draw attention to is that, I will rely on these figures that Mr. Jovanovic spoke before me, so if we look at that 95% of the population of the Republic has the possibility of joining the sources of drinking water, and that's what it did, I won't say just, but 84%, we need to ask ourselves why this difference between those who have that possibility, and didn't take advantage of those who are so, so big. If we know that we are the 30th country by supply of drinking water in the world and that we are at the top of EU countries, and we see that still one large number of our citizens do not have drinking health water, health care, then it is for concern. And why is that? I think, however, that the price of water and the price of connections differs from place to place in Croatia. I know it should be partly market-based, but there are huge differences. One part is that we also have huge losses in certain areas in Croatia managed by certain water pipelines, which is the result of low investment in the distribution network. And it needs to be done, and it needs to be seen what these problems are or should be brought in, and somehow try to regulate them legally to try to solve them. And what I want to warn you about is, so we're here today discussing water for human consumption, and right now I'm writing a one-off question, and I don't even know who I should address, so I've been talking to a few active military personnel working in the town of Gospić in our military there for months, and I don't think it's inadmissible, and I don't even know whose jurisdiction it is right now, is that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, is that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State's property, which it is, although it's in charge of the MORH, and I think we should check that. Here I am calling the inspection services to see what's going on that our soldiers in Gospić haven't had drinking water in the barracks in months. Which is why so and who is responsible and who is responsible, we have now heard here about installations in the facility, the sanitary conditions etc. and what will the inspection that comes there to determine? If he finds out there's no drinking water, and there's no drinking water because people tell me that, who's responsible? Is he gonna punish someone? Who's he gonna punish? Will he punish the commander of the military, will he punish the owner of the army that is the Republic of Croatia, will punish the ministry, that's the question? And I'm going to write a parliamentary question and I really don't know who to point it to. I think I'm going to point it at all three departments in charge, so I guess somebody's going to write an answer. But from here, I call on inspection services to check on what's going on in the military in Gospić, which is why it's the way it is and how our soldiers can function there in the first place. Is this the case in some other military facilities in Croatia since I have information only for Gospić? But I'd like to get answers to those questions, and I hope that today my statement will have some results. Here's the most I've ever heard from you about this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182636	Mr. Ante Babic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182637	Thank you very much. You tell your esteemed colleague, Gjujic, if 90% of the people are already connected to public water supply, you're surprised that it's not this 10%. Two, three things matter here. I'll tell you about the area of the Imot area and the Imot water supply, so where your water rises to 700 meters above sea level and there are three pumps and where more electricity is consumed perhaps than water. On the other hand, large profiles of these pipelines are also a problem for the quality of water or for disinfection because in winter conditions when you do not have enough tourists and people, this water is not spent and is standing in these pipes, so this washing costs a lot, on the one hand. On the other side of summer, this water is expendable and the quality of water is far better. These 10% are related to those local irritants that have their own stations where water quality is not tested daily especially after heavy rains when such water is clouded and not controlled as in public supply where this control is almost every day in terms of human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182638	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182639	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, I have said there are specificities in Croatia, but I do not agree with you that this 10% refers to those who have their own stations or let's say it soundly that people understand, their own wells in a yard. So the data that I'm talking about is that those 10% I'm talking about have the possibility of joining up, so they're being brought into the network, they have the ability to access the connection, but they don't. And normally they probably have their wells because from somewhere they use water, but I think there's a major cause of connection prices and prices at the end of the water, or when all of this is recalculated to them it's more cost-effective maybe still to be on the well than to join the net. But on that question, we need to work something out. Here I come from the end of New Vinodolski, we about ten years ago pulled the same waternet into our backs which is the same on a high let's say on the hill is and the same was a weak interest at first because the connection had to pay 18,000 kuna. Then the city council decided to subsidize in that part and essentially the city lowered the price of the connection after which they joined. So that's where you need to see the modals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182640	Thank you. The second, and also the last replica of Mrs Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182641	Comrade Djujic, you've made a good point. In fact, we have a very high percentage of households or a total connection to drinking healthy water, which means that this infrastructure is well done. But I see this whole problem as a package, the water supply package along with the drain. Namely, we are directly jeopardizing our drinking water with unresolved drains and with a relatively low percentage of drain resolution in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I would draw attention to the problem of the Gorski kotar, so the area of the Republic of Croatia that lies on the largest drinking water sites, which is the Gorski Kotar has a major problem with pollution, and of course the pollution is unfortunately due to unresolved draining. So here's the distraction, and I'm kind of channeling the answer to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182642	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182643	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Turina Đurić you noticed well and it is precisely according to the last legal changes and prescribed that under the waterway he fell and that system of draining. But what I've always wondered, so the water lines are practically monopolies and they sell the water everyone needs and everybody pays for it. Let's just say in our area of our county we had some plumbing that had been doing business with loss for years. What's art to me when you say you have a safe market, you have safe income, you have a high price of water that's really high, and then you do business with loss, and instead of rationalizing the number of employees and some things and you invest in the network to reduce the losses, then those certain revenues could also be directed into that drain network that, which is the problem. So, basically, you have to do a little bit more rational business, do business in these companies, then there'll be money to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182644	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Snježana Sabolek's turn, she's gone, she loses her right and Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182645	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted to report in an individual debate just to point out two important facts, which is that one of the key challenges affecting the availability of water are climate change. I therefore expect us in the Croatian Parliament to pay greater attention to this issue for the simple reason that recently 550 Croatian scientists signed an appeal for systematic climate action. They also handed the appeal to the government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as to the Croatian Parliament. In this appeal 550 of our scientists through 11 requests requires concrete action. Specific actions that will ensure the sustainability and salvation of our planet. In addition, we have recently also had the opportunity to read a document published by the National Academy of Sciences where scientists from around the world are looking for a turn in six points to ensure the salvation of planet Earth. These 6 points are energy transition, decarbonised cities, financial system, value system and consumer information, and what our scientists particularly point out in these 11 requirements, which is that the sustainability issue must be imposed through the entire education system so that climate awareness should be installed in the education system much more than it is today. Therefore, sustainability cannot be imposed by the authors of this study, they believe that awareness of climate protection, and I say one of the biggest challenges for water is just coming from climate impacts to be incorporated into education systems. Thus, quality education supports and deepens normatives and strengthens the faith of values that can lead to changes in individual behavior, and then groups, as well as all mankind, which will ensure the sustainability of our planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182646	Mr. Vlaovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have well warned about the appeal of Croatian scientists who want Croatia to participate more actively in the regulation and monitoring of climate change, and in the light of this law and consumer protection, i.e. the users of water from the system in Croatia, it is important that our citizens first have available drinking water, and secondly to protect it from possible pollution. We had an example in Vukovar-Srijem County where for years residents drank water with a high percentage of arsenic and heavy metals, without being warned by the public water supplier and that it had not been resolved for years. A similar threat threatens at Piškornica in Koprivnica, where the head of the municipality warned about the estimated water and the remains of heavy metals, but nothing is done. So the question is, who did these risk assessments, are they still valid, water-protective zones are they well established and who controls it? Because if we want to protect drinking water then we have to act systematically, and not leave it to someone who doesn't do it well, and we see that public water suppliers are not in a number of cases, they worked well. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time Mr. Vlaović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182648	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182649	Comrade Vlaović, yes, I agree with you. In this direction was my question which I had asked in previous years in the debate in the Croatian Parliament when we discussed water consumption precisely for some Slavonian water pipelines where an increased amount of arsenic was proven, which was actually known, and that actually the citizens were never informed about it. So it would be good to have the Institute of Public Health monitor people who drank that water and see if there were any consequences. Therefore, it must go in several directions. One is to increase the availability of water for all, public disposal where it must be increased above the average where we are very low today and of course informing consumers and the education system where, in the end, only by such joint action can we ultimately ensure the protection and correctness of water for human consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182650	Thank you very much. Miro Bulj, Mr. Miro Bulj has an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182651	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, drinking water is the resource of the 21st century and of course the use of water, which we have public use, is important that their quality is at the highest level, and Croatia is known, it is one of the countries in Europe and the world that has the largest pool of drinking water and the most drinking water per capita. However, this law does not solve those things for water conservation. I know that the intention of the Ministry of Health is to bring this into line with the legislation and the EU and the directives, however, is the fact that we are dealing disastrously with drinking water and that drinking water, what we have proposed should enter the Constitution, which would produce laws that would protect our breach and rivers from source to mouth. I'm going to say a few examples where there are huge problems with water supply, i.e. where people cannot consume drinking water is an example of the city of Split. In the city of Split because of the irresponsibility of the competent institutions we have respected secretaries problems with, so after every rain per week, two or more citizens of Split cannot consume water because the criteria, health criteria, water is cloudy, and that is all because of the pollution of Jadro. We've got spongy pits that were artificially made in e.g. in Dugopolje, they are designed to fit everything from the highway into these pits, and these pits are directly connected to the spring of the Adriatic and we do not have enough filters or systems to process that water in the Adriatic, to be quality drinking water. We're talking about a pool in Split that has 300,000 inhabitants, and therefore, respected ministers, I hope that, according to the Ministry of Protection and the environment, there must be coordination there, all of these laws that we are now passing, you as the Ministry of Health, if we have harmful projects on the breach, if Slovenia has passed the law, ie. I put water in the Constitution as a fundamental human right, and so it came out like I said about the protection of the breach, he, I don't see any reason why we wouldn't do it, I hope that this initiative that we have sent with the appropriate 40 signatures of fellow MPs to come to the debate and that we will put water in the Constitution as the largest category of protection. It must not happen that the Dalmatinska Zagora, Lečevica, Lečevica, Lečevica, is constantly pushing the waste management centre. Theologians have proven, I have been in numerous lectures, scientific lectures, that caves are connected, speciological caves that are connected to underwater streams of river and Jadro, to Žrnovnica and to, and to Cetina, it is all connected and now on the largest peak work in the karst area which is like a sponge, the Centre for Waste Management similar to that of Mariščina in Rijeka, now imagine when it ends in water streams, which will be with the largest of our potential, with our drinking waters, I think that the tribale would be dedicated here, the tribale would be one body di tribale be the Ministry of Health, Associations and experts on the protection of water that should be, the government will have this body that does not exist that they can't understand, people would be opposed, even the tribale would be the tribale to be the Ministry of Health, Association of Health, Associations of Health, Associations, Associations and Natural Resources of the European Waters are also the most important to be afecreines, the Europeans, the Europeans are af. Our NP Plitvice, Plitvice Lakes where we have 2 million visitors over the year, and that's okay, but because of the rebuilding, because there's no sewer system and that draining water, the sewers, they're going to pop-up pits that are directly connected to the drinking waters, I was a witness, I saw that pit, I filmed that pit, it's catastrophic. We have the Zrmanja River where we have the former clay factory, where we have the loins, where we have weak, where, where the state has still invested 150 million kunas in the recovery, but then Mladneo was in the protection of the environment in that fund, and they haven't finished the money there, they ended up in someone's pocket, instead of protecting it, they haven't protected it, and now there's been spilling and mules, and now they're staying there, but that's all the karst area, so first of all, that this law would be implemented I know what you're saying, this is, this is the law that regulates it, the regulation, which regulates that people wouldn't accidentally use and consume water that would compromise their health. However, what we will use if we bring these drinking waters with our irresponsible behaviors into a situation as we have now brought Split into a situation and a whole hinterland. The Krka River, we have the Orasnica River, which is immediately connected to several hundred meters, we have large pools, large pools made of materials that are pink, pebble and whenever it is rain, this is huge in the Krka River, and it literally comes to the NP Krka where it is poisoned and flora and fauna, and these are of course mules and fuels, there is a smell, I brought it here once and in a bottle, it is an astonishment, it is with the former TVIK, today DIV or what it is called, I don't know, but mostly so much harm and dangers come to us that we won't be able to get a little bit more if we don't take certain measures, it won't be applied to us, in fact it will be applied, but it will be forbidden to drink water like this Split swimming pool. Once again, this home, the Parliament, if Slovenia could put in the Water Constitution and protect it as a basic human right, not what they say in the Constitution, are the resources of the natural Republic, forests, water, not that, but as a fundamental human right and to protect it from breaking our and our rivers from, to come out of the laws of the river from spring to mouth, is what happens now believe me if we continue to destroy our environment so radically will be catastrophic. I believe that we will not experience it and I hope that the law that MOST referred to will. The proposal to amend the Constitution in the procedure with the signing of parliamentary representatives that if it is difficult for the Government to accept what we have proposed to the colleagues from the opposition then let the free government make a proposal and put it in, let it be put into the Constitution, means the protection of drinking waters and that the law on the breach that I am going to propose, I am now doing and, of course, the protection of the river from the source to the mouth, but it is not a question that some warm water was invented, if Slovenia could do so, is not far from us, I do not see any reason why we would not protect the resource of the 21st century with which we are rich, these are drinking water pools, we have an example on the continental part, here Donja Lomnica near Velika Gorica is doing an asphalt base where the New Zagreb uses the water whole of this area, there are pools of drinking water, and there are now for the asphalt base. I'm not against the development of entrepreneurship, but why exactly are you working next to those water supply pools, that's where the asphalt base is done and people are opposed, the people are opposed, but there's obviously no hearing. So it's not just a question of karst area, it's a question of unquality waters and in the area of Slavonia that weren't the best quality and weren't long drinking, and we're rich in water, we're rich in water. And if there's anything we need to protect, let's say we have an example that the environment minister said that we're going to have a Dinar Nature Park, and now I see that they're pushing oil research, research fields. So, we have so many... so many bad things, let's keep a key resource. And that's why I repeat my colleagues and colleagues once again, my dear secretary, the water in the Constitution is our only salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182652	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182653	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, of course, we are a country that is rarely rich in water, which rarely the country in Europe and the world drinks from taps, so we haven't ruined it, we haven't done anything particularly bad. We need to make water purifiers, sewer cleaners, and that's what we're doing. Of course, we're not even rich enough to get there. As for Lečevica down by Split, I remember when they were protecting her, and then the smell came and they rebelled. They're right, but we have to do this project and work. Waters should be kept, ecologically raised, people's consciousness should be raised, and it's a very important thing, the consciousness of the people, what to throw in the water, how not to let it in the sewer, of course, do. But that's the question of Split or the Vinkovians themselves who have already solved it or those places that are not local policy put the priority to solve it, is that's the question of local politicians who need to solve that ecologicality, and not now I don't know the states, governments and this and that. I think it's going in that good direction, but we'll see how long it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182654	Thank you. Bull, I guess the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182655	Thank you very much. So we agree that the triba protect water, we have a waste management plan knows what should be done and how composal, sorters first and culture should function, but of course you mentioned you are very important these are agglomeration fields where billions are invested, these are projects of Croatian Waters and local plumbing companies. However, the fact that it is also stuck in certain areas is a huge amount of money. Well, I just expect that here's the minister I'm sorry that I don't get a chance to see him more often, but I expect that this project, say, will be agglomerated by Sinj, a Split agglomeration that will end by 2023 and that we will protect our rivers, is it true that the open sewerage is entering the rivers as if from Sinja is not done enough. So I agree, but it can't possibly be a waste management centre on the Lesvevica because it's a splinter's cross. There are other methods. What's that? We have an example of Krk, the island of Krk and the people who have made themselves mastered by waste and how waste becomes money, not garbage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182656	Mr. Vlaovic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182657	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you that water, drinking water must be the constitutional right of all, citizens of the Republic of Croatia must have plenty of drinking water and on the other hand we are against selling and privatising springs in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately some are already through concessions given to foreigners for management, which is not good at all. But it is even more important to protect the springs from pollution, and I have talked here several times about the problem of the disposal site of Bacanska in the Municipality of Davor, which is two, three kilometers from the source of water supplying more than 60,000 inhabitants of the region, where they had a license of 115,000 tonnes, and in the meantime, the permit was extended to another 30 or 40,000 tonnes without being analysed as to the quality of the soil, water or at least the citizens having no information as to whether or not the water pump that is there was at risk. And I think citizens rightly demand the closure of this dump because they want to protect that well of drinking water for 60,000 people in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182658	Thank you. Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182659	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaovic, that you are also a signator of this initiative for an amendment, i.e. to enter into the Constitution water as if to protect drinking water. And I agree that we are all here that the triba protection means this key potential and the resources of Croatia that is drinking water, that is the resource of the 21st century, but the fact is that we are not doing it from the lowest levels to the highest levels and that there should be one coordinating body where it will be the Ministry of Health, where it will be the Ministry of Environment, where there will be people of the association, where there will be experts to finally start to manage the waste properly and to make waste water the way it should be and what should be in agglomeration systems. However, the fact that with harmful projects such as the Ljevica Centre for Waste Management project will essentially destroy this most important resource, which is drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182660	The last replica, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182661	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bulj, Croatia is the 30th country in the world by supply of drinking water, so 30th country in the world. It's 21st-century oil, and it's estimated that wars will be waged in the future for water. Croatia is in a good position here. And now, we've talked a lot now through this law on the protection of these sources through projects and through certain things, but we're not just dealing with the protection of the source of drinking water, we're acting irrationally. So we also use drinking water to water both for street washing and for many other things where recycled or purified water, waste water is used in the world, etc. So we also have to work more on raising awareness because for now, how these waters are there and we treat them irresponsiblely, but we have to stop it in time and take that strategic position in the future that we currently have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182662	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182663	Yes, once again I will repeat, and you said that drinking water is a resource, a key resource of the 21st century. Nothing fossil fuels, nothing oil, so it's just a resource we have to protect. Are we protecting him enough? No, I don't. Do we work enough with children in the family all together in kindergartens, schools in a way that protects water, how do we manage waste? We have only adverse decisions, we have an adverse decision from the Ministry of the Environment i.e. A minister who says that waste from Vrgorec is transported to Sinj 120km to the same sanitary dumps as in Vrgorec where they do huge damage, which, by the way, pollutes the air because the vehicles are old on oil. Therefore, we simply have to reach some standards, to show how we have shut down certain landfills that affect water and air, we simply make harmful decisions, and we simply need to put an end to it. We all have to protect our drinking water together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182664	Thank you. The secretary of state, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, will now speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182665	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I thank you for the quality of the debate, I regret that there is no honourable representative Pusic who has asked two questions that could confuse the Croatian public, so I must react to them. Under number one, this law means that the Croatian government will not privatise water for human consumption and under the number of two natural persons who are scheduled for a fine of 500 kuna that applies exclusively to economic public activity. So it doesn't apply that someone's going to be in the house for a fine of 500 kuna because it's a bad water for human consumption. I think it's very important to clarify that in this debate. We have also received a nomotechnical amendment from MP Pera Cosic, who the government accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182666	Two replicas. Mr. Bull first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182667	Of course by this law, you have now said you will not privatise the water, but the fact that the sources in the Republic of Croatia are controlled by foreigners, foreign companies that have huge profits and profits. The source on the river Cetina was given in concession for 50 years. So why can't the Croats, our entrepreneurs, our people have a huge profit on water sources? It's a pit, St. John's Day. Rok, renting was held in 2015 during Milanovic's government or in 2014 for 37 seconds, and a monthly fee of 5,000 kuna was paid. The cetina water you see is all you drink, and you see at the gas stations, it collects a bottle of half a liter of water than a liter of gasoline or oil. So we have to take these things more seriously, and this law of course does not apply to this, it refers to water use, but it's all connected, it's all connected. The water is public and general well-being for every citizen and drinking water should be put in the Constitution. Protecting Our Breach and Protecting Means Thank you. [[Intruder: Time is no longer measured, but the feeling tells me that one minute has passed.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182668	Thank you very much. Okay, Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182669	The esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, all water stations for human consumption as well as water supply facilities must be protected from accidental and deliberate pollution. What about the possibility of polluting the water source with an unsolved sewer system or with the technical failure of septic caves especially in karst terrain? And is that possible and will that be resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182670	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182671	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking the question, that question is not in the jurisdiction of this law but must be addressed by the Water Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182672	And in the end, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182673	The Secretary of State didn't answer my question. So who's in charge because our soldiers haven't had drinking water in months? Here, I ask you if you can answer me in your opinion and experience of the resistor that you are engaged in not giving me an answer that it is not in the jurisdiction of this law or of your ministry. Tell me whose jurisdiction it is, who needs to be checked and who needs to answer for it? Just give me a hint, I'll ask a representative question if it's not yours to talk to? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182674	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182675	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. This is not a question from our jurisdiction that is a question from the authority of the local self-government unit of that institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182676	Okay. We're closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182677	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act for human consumption, second reading, P.Z. No. 754. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Pero Ćosic. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 121 for and 2 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182678	The last law today on the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Act in the course of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 821 We should have had more law today, Mr. Representative Jovanovic, but the board did not do its job, but so we failed to put it on the agenda. This law carries number 821, the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić, would he like to take the opening statement? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182679	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, you are presented with a draft proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Coastal Research and Exploitation of Carbons, and an existing Security Act published in the National Journal 78/15 has been adopted by the Directive into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and this Directive. 2013/30, these provisions relate to the prevention of major accidents during coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Furthermore, that regulation regulated the application of the same to prevent and conduct major accidents related to the performance of offshore works, administrative and inspection controls, infringement provisions and other issues. In accordance with the EU Directive, and related to politics, security and persons and property, as well as environmental protection during 2017. A co-ordination was established for safety in the coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons as a competent authority for the control of the implementation of the activities of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. The aim of this Directive is to minimise the risk of major accidents related to coastal, oil and gas activities and to limit their consequences, thereby improving the protection of the marine environment and coastal economies from pollution, establishing minimum conditions for safe exploration and exploitation of oil and gas and limiting possible interruptions of domestic energy production, and improving response mechanisms in the event of an accident. Directive 2013/30 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of offshore oil and gas activities was to be implemented by Member States with coastal waters involving activities related to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and Member States in which a company engaged in such activities is registered. Given the fact that activities of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation take place in Croatia, the Republic of Croatia had an obligation to transpose the Directive. In addition to the scope and number of coastal buildings, the Republic of Croatia is classified in the first group of member states, namely in the most intense group of activities and with more than 10 facilities. Today, there are 20 offshore facilities in the Croatian department, a platform, of which 19 exploitation facilities, of which 2 constantly inhabited buildings, remain automated and one compression facility. So far, the total exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, which began in October 1999. makes natural biogenic gas high purity with almost 99.6% of methane, and production takes place in 3 exploitation fields, North Adriatic, Marica and Isabel. In the last 20 years. no minor ecological incident was reported. The adoption, transposition of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the safety of offshore oil and gas activities have led to certain discrepancies between the EU rules and the Security Act in coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and the process of amending and supplementing the rules has been approached. The entire existing law has incorrectly transferred the responsibility of an oil mining economic operator to the competent authority of co-ordination for coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which opens possible problems with the collection of potential damages in the event of major environmental accidents, and also individual provisions in reality are inconclusive, and may lead to uncertainty in the conduct or possible responsibilities of the competent authority in the event of failure to fulfil the obligations of oil mining operators. Furthermore, there are two provisions in which a part of the text of the Directive is left out for the understanding and determination of the obligations of oil mining operators, which raises a problem in unspecified percentages which each party interprets in its own way, and deadlines specified in the law can create a misunderstanding with oil mining operators. The composition of the members of the coordination should be amended because part of the public authority responsible for certain areas of part-rounding of their business has been transferred to other public authorities, for example the affairs of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the Agency for Spaces at risk of explosive atmosphere, and the appointment of new members from the public authority is necessary, and therefore the proposed law regulates the composition of the coordination. This Regulation will also allow coordination to prohibit the prohibition of offshore oil mining, mining and mining operators in such a way as to prohibit coastal works by oil mining operators from imposing coordination on the authority responsible for carrying out inspection controls to prohibit the operation of coastal works by oil mining operators in cases of prescribed law. According to the EU regulation, the competent safety authority is independent and objective in the performance of its regulatory functions and must act independently of policy and decision-making on contracts and financial commitments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182680	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182681	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you said that we are implementing the European Directives in this law and in ours, regulating this area of economic activity on the Adriatic, what is good for you to hear from the report that there has been no incident in recent years or 20 years. The key question is whether the Republic of Croatia has the capacity to, if there is an incident to resolve the situation, or who is in charge of a company that has a concession of local and regional self-government, which also has the capacity to protect the Adriatic from pollution, because we are still a tourist country. Of course, it is good for Croatia to be energy independent and that we have our own sources of oil and gas. But surely tourism on the Adriatic should be preserved, and this is a potential danger. So what are the risks and what are the capacities of the Republic of Croatia, and in light of climate change, because we know that we are monitoring and announcing sea level growth and there are huge problems related to this activity, are we ready for these risks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182682	The answer... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182683	Thank you, dear parliamentary representative Vlaovic. As for the preparedness of the Republic of Croatia for God's sakes, it is absolutely on a large, high level, which shows frequent exercises organised within both the fire communities and all the competent authorities in charge of protection and rescue. This law is only an additional confirmation that a single independent body, such as this coordinating body, is making sure that in this whole process, is properly controlled, plus all those regular situations that are controlled in accordance with normal competences, so that we can say that we are 100% sure that Croatia is ready. And that's also proof that we've never had any excesses so far, and we're very confident that's how it's going to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182684	Another replica has Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182685	Thank you very much. I see that there is increased activity in the proposal to explore the Adriatic for hydrocarbon in the Adriatic. We can see that a new proposal for a spatial plan includes new explored fields at the apple, Vis, Palagreža. But there's one thing here to say. We are a country that lives on tourism, mostly tourism. 20% less GDP, 18% of tourism. Do you think that tourism will be, will not be compromised when we see these research fields when oil is drained? Is that going to look nice and perspective? And if it happens by chance any ecocyte is possible, the damage will be that the Croatian system of all will fail. So the damage is huge. Did you put that on the scale? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182686	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182687	Dear Representative Bull, thank you for asking. I don't know where you found the research to go to Palagreja and Apple? I just don't have that information. This law deals with security. This law deals exclusively with buildings when research is done and when exploitation and extraction takes place, production of hydrocarbons. There are certain fields that have already been in the contest for one day, but no one has reported and how much information I have, and since I work at the Ministry that should have that information for the time being, there will certainly be no explosions and research and permits in that area that you mentioned will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182688	And finally, Mr. Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd be interested in telling you whether the tender that was... was officially completed, or whether certain necessary legal actions were still withdrawn on the one hand, and on the other hand I didn't hear you well enough if I wasn't wrong about the number of current exploiting platforms on the Adriatic. You said 20 seems to me or 23, but I'd like to ask if you can tell me, exactly what platform that applies to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182690	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182691	As far as this competition for the sea is concerned, I assume this southern part, since I know where you're from to be interested. So, this contest has been completed and according to the Law on Carbon Exploitation and Research means that there is a stage where eventually a government decision could give someone a concession. Clearly, both you and I and the public know that at that time, that there is no discussion about it now, let alone that such a decision should be made. And as far as these platforms are concerned, they're all in the North Adriatic. They're all gas platforms. It totals 20. Of which, 17 exploitations, or one of them is a compressor, and all the others are exploitative. So these are platforms that worked in the best times provided Croatia with a billion and a half cubic metres of gas that today provide Croatia with about 400 thousand cubic metres and 0.4 billion cc's of gas, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182692	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr Branko Bačić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation was adopted in July 2015. We are at the Club, then in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I voiced opposition to the law for several reasons, most of which are now removed from these changes. Our fundamental reason for then resisting this law was the fact that a post-festum came to us. So, this law is based on the European Parliament and Council's 2013 directive, which, at European Union level, was once again the result of another event that took place in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 when the biggest ecological disaster occurred in history in modern history, and certainly there was no such one, the largest pollution of the sea in history, which the pollution and the ecological disaster occurred not on an exploitation platform, but on a research platform in the Gulf of Mexico called Deep Water Horizon, where a thousand and a half metres of a mile [1,000 km] and 500 meters of it was explored, hydrocarbons were investigated to approach exploitation in the Gulf of Mexico. How powerful this ecological disaster has been, it is said, that for the recovery of this entire area of the marine environment, the sea, the compensation of fishermen and local authorities in the area that has been polluted over nearly $5 billion, and also many Croats, I have to say that, which deals with mariculture in the Gulf of Mexico, even my Pelješaks, have been explained to me that they are almost impossible for them, their descendants to grow stones, sharp, mussels right in the Gulf of Mexico, and they are also compensated by the same oil economic operator to treat this law. So then, on behalf of the Club, we talked about the law on the exploitation of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, it was supposed to be an assumption with a number of other documents that we've been interpreting that should be an assumption of entering research and exploitation. And we have always claimed that the HDZ Representatives Club is not against the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We do, so even though we don't know for sure when we're exploring whether or not we're going to run into gas or oil, today the methods of research and measurement with a great almost 100% security can claim what awaits us in the marine underworld. We at the Club of Representatives have always claimed that the Adriatic is possible and is well and justified and you yourself have said this to the Secretary of State just before it is good that Croatia draws its own gas supplies in the Adriatic Sea. We at the club, I personally don't want to think about exploiting or exploring oil supplies in the Adriatic. I am also against those who are taking place and are working on neighbouring Montenegro in the Adriatic Sea, given that oil stocks are assumed in Croatia, in the Adriatic, not in Croatia but in the Adriatic, according to our knowledge in the southern part of the Adriatic, where the depths are over a thousand meters deep, and the extraction of oil at depths below a thousand meters is the most complex, most complex technological process in the world and cannot be measured by anything in view of the complexity of oil extraction from such large depths on the one hand, and on the other hand, about a potential huge disaster that can occur for coastal states ahead of which oil is exploited. So that's what we claimed then, and today we stand on those assumptions. The second thing I welcome and what the secretary of state said and why we will support such a solution is that there is a clear regulation of the responsibility of an oil and mining economic operator which was not the case under the applicable law. And you said yourself, I think it was an observation, and then we talked about this responsibility for making an assessment, the report, the occurrence of an accident bigger or less as it was prescribed by this law is no longer in coordination as a body that conducts surveillance, defines, monitors exploitation, but is on an oil and mining economic operator. It's completely clear and it's news to us. However, in the North Sea, this has been the responsibility of an oil and mining economic operator for 20 years, and that is good and I welcome it anyway. The second thing is, there is a kind of conflict of interest and it is not good and it must not happen that a member of the coordination should be a professional person who took part in the process of issuing a permit to carry out the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. That's perfectly clear stuff. No one who participated in the release process can be later and the controller, monitor whether it comes from the agency, whether it comes from the Croatian Register of Ships, etc. It is, therefore, absolutely necessary to support it and it is not disputed. There are two things left that I think would be good to think about, and then I'm saying, and now I'm talking. Namely, our spatial-planned documents in Croatia nowhere in any county, the coastal county has no intended location, space for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. When we speak along the way to be told about it you are right secretary of state in 20 years researching gas exploitation in the Adriatic there was no more serious situation that would smell of pollution, of something that was out of control. And I think it's very professional and should commend all those who are exploiting the Adriatic gas, so far it's really not. However, we were aware of the fact that somewhere I think it was in 1969 at a well in Brač... there was an evaporation of the sulfur, even threatening to move a large part of Brač then because of potential air pollution by large amounts of sulfur. I think her name was Milna One, or whatever her name was, the well itself, where it was that time, the sulfide evaporation. That's what I'm saying for the reason that nowhere in our coastal sea districts is their space for research and exploitation. Why? Because county spatial plans cover the area of land space, inland seawater and the territorial sea. Countys must not go beyond the territorial sea of Croatia by means of their spatial-planned documents, because outside the territorial sea, the Republic of Croatia, and then the county has no sovereignty, unlike the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, where research and exploitation is allowed, but the strategy itself implies and another space which is not mentioned here. Here in law and valid, and now you haven't changed it, it's about the fact that research and exploitation can be done in internal sea waters, in the territorial sea and in the epicontinental belt. It is indeed carried out in an epicontinental belt because the hydrocarbon is below the ground, which is an epicontinental belt, but the facility that performs the platform is located in the ZERP, protected by the ecological-fishing belt and I do not see it at the time, that is why, when we mention internal seawater and territorial seas that involve the same... seas above the bottom and underground, the living and non-living nature in the underground is mentioned through internal seawater, through the territorial sea it is the equivalent of what is happening in the internal sea waters and the territorial sea outside the territorial sea, the column of the sea is ZERP, and the epicontinental belt is that beneath the sea floor in the protected ecological and fishing zone, so I indicated it. It seems to me that in that part the law is disabled when it doesn't mention ZERP. We have nothing to be afraid of and to mention ZERP, we ZERP are guarding, and that is why a coast guard is established. We nostrified him in the United Nations Assembly in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. He exists. In this area, the Republic of Croatia has every right to monitor and monitor those fisheries and pollution, and this is precisely the law that prescribes the conduct of state bodies and coordination and headquarters in both state and county when it is possible not to give God the disaster that would occur on any of the platforms in the protected ecological and fisheries belt. So here is the first reading, until the second reading, think about it because every platform and now located on the northern Adriatic if it is outside the territorial sea it is in a local sense located in the ZERP, and the hydrocarbon it draws is in an epicontinental belt. That's the distance you need... And another thing, any approach to exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic is so far, and we already have experience and this rich experience of gas exploration and exploitation is based on some space-planned document. There is nothing that can be done in Croatia, there is no activity that is prescribed in Croatia, which is not based when talking about an object on a location permit, and the location permit does not exist unless a suitable space-plan document is created for it. When it comes to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, then since it is not prescribed by any spatial plan, and it is carried out in a protected eco-fishing band, we are able to obtain the local permits and later produce a research and exploitation permit based on an appropriate spatial development strategy of the Republic of Croatia which is still in place. However, a new Law on Spatial Planning has been passed, which envisioned the development of a state spatial development plan. It is a central document that will prescribe all projects of national importance in Croatia located either on land, or in internal sea waters, or in the territorial sea, or in a protected ecological-fishing belt or in an epicontinental belt. If we are to be legalists, if we will also follow the directive adopted by the Russian Parliament and the Russian Council and we should and should, then any new field of research that can later be transformed into exploitation must be adopted by the state spatial development plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the law. This document is equivalent and changes the current strategy which is the general principle of nature, as the strategies have been. Therefore, for any reflection on any new research of any particular hydrocarbons for projects that are of national importance, and these projects are a couple of excellencies of national importance to me there are not some much larger projects than we have in the economy because we know what it means in financial terms. You mentioned earlier, and I asked you, which means gas exploration in the northern part of the Adriatic, and then what would mean in the future is a couple of excellencies when I said a project of state importance, this project can get a location permit and later only if it is based on a state spatial plan, and if this state plan of spatial development adopts this high home as the representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So it seems to me, with these improvements already four years ago, here for four and a half years in the Croatian Parliament, we were referring to the ZERP and the state plan of spatial development that was already or should have been in its production but it happened if I was not wrong only last year in a way that the process of developing a strategic impact assessment on the environment as a basis for the development of the state's spatial development plan would have been a good thing for the government to consider that as well. And in any case, I welcome these two very important changes concerning the work of coordination and defining the responsibility of whoever draws, who investigates and who exploits hydrocarbons on it is, in my opinion, a fundamental responsibility. Therefore, the first reading is and we support it and I am glad that this has come to be a great step, but I just need another step to go forward so that all of these envisaged possibilities that have been defined by law can then be solved by this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182694	Thank you, too. I welcome a large group of students and students of XI. High school from Zagreb and only the first group. There'll be another group at 3:00. Thank you very much for... [[Applause.]] We're moving on to the clubs. [[Applause.]] Mr. Miro Bulj will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182695	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, is this a very important and important law and direction of the Republic of Croatia is it a tourist country? The Republic of Croatia has 20%, 18% of GDP from tourism. We have a beautiful developed coast that we use as a tourist potential and that we should protect from concreteisation, from harmful possible environmental disasters such as hydrocarbon research mainly if it is not exclusively and exclusively and only strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a little something I asked through the replica of the esteemed secretary, and here's my colleague Bacic was also talking about county otherwise spatial plans. However, in the new draft, you have denied that you know nothing, but since in the County of Split-Dalmatia, now from the SDP list, you have also flown the HNS into the coalition and lift your hand neatly below, you should be told what is going on and so does your colleague Bacic. In the new draft of the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan, there is a brand new article 77, which defines the hydrocarbon research premises according to the framework plan and the hydrocarbon exploitation programme in the Adriatic, which means 9 new research spaces have been defined. That means 9, that's the new proposal means no. So it didn't occur to anyone but it targeted a new nine areas of investigation, research fields and research spaces. This means that ultimately in that area there may be new exploitation fields, and we know what oil platforms or platforms in that area would mean in that area as I said it was on here I said it was at the island of Apple. And I'd like to remind you that it's Apple Island. So this proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County plan, which is affected by the procedure, is an apple cauldron where there is a nesting site and a growing area of the largest economic species of fish. The importance of the apple cauldron is reflected in the fact that it contains about 23 total biomass of economically important species located in the northern and central parts of the Adriatic. In this space... experts who sign this proposal and apparently with the consent of the ministry, I don't know... or pretend you don't know if it's in a spatial plan that would drill the Adriatic in this area. In 2019, the Adriatic is a geopark protected by UNESCO, including the island of Vis, the surrounding islands of Biševo, St. Andrija, Brusnik, Apple and Palagreža, and there is also an investigation field for oil. On Biševo there is a near-known natural phenomenon of the Blue Cave, which has been protected as a germophological monument of nature since 1951. The island of Brusnik is protected as well as a geological monument of nature. It is home to endemic distinguished lizards, Brusnička Lizardica. In 1995, Palagruža was protected as a cultural landscape, and in April 1995 the entire archipelago was declared a protected monument by the State Department for the Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage in Split. I'm saying this all means, Palagreža, Vis, Bisevo, all of what I'm saying means apples, higher, palagregues are new fields of exploitation, and all I'm saying is that it's not just tourism, it's also these areas that I'm counting. As I said, Palagreža has been protected as a cultural landscape since 95, and in April 95, the entire archipelago was declared a protected monument by the State Department for the Protection of Culture and Heritage in Split. Scientists have been insisting for a long time as if it were like a marine park such as the Italian neighbours, such as the neighboring Italian islands Termites or our Lastovo, the Palagruža is the richest rare plant endemics not to count them. So, you have...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182696	Tremiti, Tremiti. They're called Tremiti, not Termites.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182697	Okay. I didn't understand. Tremiti? Tremiti yes. Crime this is one per me plan that the Split-Dalmatia County is pushing into a spatial plan so the proposal itself is criminal on our Adriatic. With concreteization, we now have search fields this way. I know, you'll say that Montenegro will work down below, counterpart Bacic has now explained in much greater depths. Again I will say tourism is one of the main branches and it should be the backbone of the development of the Republic of Croatia along the agricultural branch which should be an additional value that absolutely destroyed our agriculture, we now, with the concreteisation of our coast that takes terrible proportions only on the coast of the Makarska coast, actually throughout the coast we have concreteization of our maritime goods. It's mostly the county and the mayors of the Pharaohs. They're awarding concessions, those for maritime well-being and so are our coalitions, but with the survey of the Adriatic, we have to be careful, and that's why I find it amazing that a colleague here is this. Assistant minister or secretary at the ministry that he does not know that nine new meanings of the investigative areas are in changes to the Split-Dalmatia County plan. So it's an investigative area. It means they're preparing for the oil rigs. Now imagine what these oil platforms will look like when we look from Split, when we look from Vis, when we look at the entire area of Split-Dalmatia County. I would also take advantage of the opportunity that the environment of Ćorić and nature, environment and energy also held a meeting in Sinj. in the island, the Dalmatian island near Sinj, held a meeting with the mayors and mayors from Dalmatia Zagorje i.e. in the Dinara area and said that a park of nature would be declared Dinara. After a few days that the decision had been made, it began, that it would go to research oil in the Dinara area, i.e. hydrocarbon. So you're so contradictory about this, I can't believe it. However, all EU directives, I do not know what supervisors must be in the interest of Croatia and Croatia's economies. Only in the interest of the Croatian economy. No drilling can be allowed to be controlled by strangers. I know we don't care enough about the Adriatic, I'm aware that we don't have the strength to declare the exclusive economic belt that MOST has put in the process and we voted here not to protect our own and yet this international waters that, by international law, belong to us when we declare an exclusive economic belt, not to protect the submarine because we don't have the strength to do so. And now we're going to let ourselves be explored, and we're going to drill the Adriatic as they come to mind, and we're going to have foreign fishermen hunting fish with their carriages to defend the literal submarine, dig it, dig it, dig it, destroy the flora and fauna. They sell that fish to us as their valuable Italian chariots. The care of Tajani, and Plenkovic must bow to him, he must bow to him, and our fishermen can see how many windows of the network, how much legislation. So we're not working in the interest of the people. This assembly must be, working in the interests of the people, not in the interest of foreign corporations. And I'm sorry that the ministry isn't familiar with the new draft plan, so here I expect to give you this proposal of investigators in this area, new meaning 9 research fields, although copied but you can see it in the proposal of this plan because we have to do everything to protect our Adriatic. So 9 new explorations of this area for hydrocarbon exploration in the Split-Dalmatia County, and our backbone is tourism. I expected that since we have to comply with these directives, we have to be courting, we have to worship, nothing we would have tribalted if we had protected our fisherman, our peasant, if we had quoted my Sinjsko polje, that we had done the irrigation of Slavonia, that we had been instructed and that we had sold our production, but here today we are threatened to have seeds, precisely from multinational companies to buy, we will not have smittono, we will not use seeds in our gardens. And that's what we're getting ready for. It's gone too far, gentlemen, to betray our national interests and worship exclusively. I'm aware that the Adriatic is in the center of this, in its very center there are huge stains, and even oil stains, but only streaming saves what they are held on, is that it's washing ships. So it's because of the washing of the ships that he eats when he goes to the refineries to wash himself off and just streaming saves that it didn't come to shore. Imagine when you made one drill, to make a calvary, a colleague named Bačić mentioned the Calvary in the Gulf of Mexico, imagine that it happened in the Republic of Croatia to make one calvary happen in research, drilling, watching. You say it won't, and what if it does, what if it does? Well, it's a big decision, it's a strategic decision. I repeat 18% of GDP is from tourism, instead of developing the village, the economy with this rural tourism, continental tourism and thus trying to place domestic products from the OPG, we have basically destroyed the field and agriculture and now we will destroy the Adriatic Sea. I am aware, my colleague Bačić is mentioned until it may be done by perhaps Montenegrins in the deep waters below, that they will all work, but we must do everything to preserve this pearl. It is our Adriatic Sea, it is our tourism and development of tourism. I would ask, I will now give the minister's representative, I will give him research fields, and he can see this one there in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, he is publicly announced and you will see that there are new 9 fields. From what they pulled, counterpart Bacic says that the counties can't, that they don't have exactly the way they do, but counterpart Bacic has 9 investigative new research fields in Split-Dalmatia County in the Adriatic, research fields for exploration of hydrocarbons. So now what this crazy decision is going to look like, what these platforms are going to look like, what the interest of Croatian citizens is, that's the question now. Because I can't understand that we have wells where on our wells in northern Italians they draw gas from our wells, and we import Russian gas. Who's going to explain what's going on? No one can. Because in us is all corruption and guessing. On ours, it means in the northern Adriatic our gas which in our territorial waters means draws are used by Italians i.e. They manage it, and we import gas. We'll be buying it back. Therefore, here I will give you the esteemed secretaries so that it would not have turned out that the Government did not know, but here I am only giving you a map now, but during the session I will print you all that nine new research fields are planned in the new spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, that is to say in the Apple Visa, the Palagrege on a period of which the tribal would be protected area and for environmental reasons and for all the reasons that I have cited in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182698	Thank you. Mr Zeljko Glasnović will speak on behalf of representatives of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182699	Dear colleagues from the Ministry, parliamentary representatives, Vice President of the Parliament. Another Law on the Security of Carbon Exploitation Research, we have 83 pages of legislation, data, we have 34 amendments, 4 amendments have been approved, the rest has been rejected, but I didn't hear any issues about the Adriatic surveillance this morning, etc. I wonder if the Ministry knows what's going on next door to the rest of the Adriatic. What happens in the northern Adriatic where radioactive waste and other chemical products are deposited? We have insight into those black spots, what's going on? Boka Kotarska, someone mentioned Boka Kotorska will now drill in Boka Kotorska because they moved the border to our damage. I don't know about that. Are we talking about it in the Croatian public and in the media? The key question of energy, independence of energy independence, what do we have? LNG terminal on Krk, we've stopped in place, and other nations are moving forward. The Black Sea pipeline is now being built across Greece to Italy. The Russians are building 8,000 kilometers of gas, connecting with China. We're tapping in place. I don't know from the ministry whether you're aware that it was held in Montenegro in October last year the second or third... summit, there's a future for this region on energy. Were our people there at all? I don't know about that. Last summit was in Bucharest, and it was taken from the air, an oil stain in the middle of the Adriatic 108km and eight more points in the coast where our sea was polluted. And what happens when we don't have a ZERP, we don't control our coasts. We've totally lost control of it, and we're talking about environmentalism. Here, what about ballast, I've ever heard of a finer from international shipping companies dropping ballast into the Adriatic Sea? I've seen it with my own eyes, not only that, but medical waste and other waste that comes out at night in the Adriatic and comes out on our shores. That's funny to these characters here, I don't think that's funny. They don't take this seriously, these former communists, they prefer the former South where you have radioactive waste at Kaštel, you have now polluting Zrmanja up. These are all those black spots on the Adriatic, you have waste there in Mali Losinj and other places, these are their spiritual heirs, they sit here today, they're great Democrats and great environmentalists, great ecophemists, and in fact they're scrawny from the former system and their mental set remains trapped in that system, and they're just teachers of empty rhetoric where the function is nothing but a spike. This is why we do not control our coast today, if we cannot control the septic pits that are pumped into the Adriatic, we see it there, what is that system sewering system from Trogir to Split. There's shit swimming around the coast, and there's nothing, there's no punishment, there's no punishment, it's empty at night. We're talking about water, we're losing 45% of the water, 48% are lost through an outdated infrastructure, and drinking water. Today someone mentioned a war to wage a war for drinking water, a gentleman, I mentioned that earlier. And where the first war for drinking water would be fought if you knew that, you could explain it to us. Yeah, you mentioned that today's drinking water. Drinking water, restoring that war will be waged. It's the first resource. Today, 1% of the water at global level is drinking. We see what's going on in Australia. Did we protect those interests? I don't see it. Do we have a strategic plan, what's going on? It will be built when we talk about the energy of 2,000 hydropower plants on the Balkan Peninsula, the species will disappear. What are we doing here? What happens when Serbs build the Introductory Neretva hydropower plant Upper Horizons? What's going to happen down there with Neretva with Metkovic, etc.? I would just conclude that we don't know what's going on out there, we fit in very well. This law has more sides than the New Testament, but we don't know what's going on. We are expected to meet all environmental standards, while others drill, operate pipelines, drill into our territorial sea, and we are blind and deaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182700	Okay. Let's move on. Mr Sasa Djujic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182701	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I'll just be brief on behalf of the SDP club. We are not concerned as some colleagues for Croatian tourism when it comes to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in our Adriatic, however, we support both development and all economic trends. We believe that Croatia should follow its development in this segment as well as the countries in the environment, that we should not be the last, but we are for high standards of security on this issue, or high standards for environmental protection when it comes to hydrocarbon research and exploitation. And because of this, we will also support this law because this law is just prescribing and, and more standard and more, more levels of security, and basically we support this law, and we will not now refer to it in detail as a colleague of Bacic, who explained it very, very detailedly, which is understandable, given that before 4 g. He was against this law, so then he had to explain why he was against it, but here we support it because we think this is a good proposal and, and, and, and we advocate high standards of security on this issue and we think that tourism and exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation can go together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182702	And now it's time to go back to your place, so you can perform individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182703	Thank you very much, Vice President, I've come forward for an individual debate for two reasons, and I can't say that on behalf of the club what I'm going to say now, which I'm going to point out here. One of these reasons is, among other things, regulation and composition, the composition of coordination which is one professional body and the Secretary of State stressed in its opening statement that it is composed or prescribed by this law to be composed of top experts and that it must be devoid of any policy and that in this area of politics it must not reside and therefore, on the other hand, my colleague Bačić, in the name of the HDZ Co-sponsors Club, highlighted the spatial planning documentation and that it is the basis for the creation of all the permits, the first of those local ones, and then the use of the permit for these activities, and I also support it in the SDP because when the policy is mixed in this document, it is also known that in this document the link, and when it does not respect the spatial documentation, then the LNG terminal on the island of Krk, which is in contrast with the spatial documentation of the Primorje-Gorska County, which is important to the locality, which is the link to the link with the locality, and when we do not all of the link to the link to the link to the project, Not to mention now and the ecological aspects, so today we're talking about this law that prescribes certain security, not to mention how much environmental impact the floating LNG terminal has, as much as it has on Croatian tourism, so this one ship that will now be anchored practically in the heart of the Kvarner Bay, how much this will affect tourism there, how much security is exposed there, we've talked a lot about it, but here, I'm using this opportunity once again to draw attention to that problem and to say how bad it looks when, when these two segments that Mr. Bacic and Mr. Bačić don't respect themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182704	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, Mr. Branko Bacic has the first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182705	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Djujic, nothing has changed with me, I said so, and I will continue later in an individual, absolutely everything I said then and I will repeat it again. I'm glad that you've changed, namely the law and the competition for the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation that, I'm glad that this is right here, Mrs. President. Dark-Taritash, it was done against spatial order documents at the time because the fields were both in internal sea waters and in the territorial sea, I argue, I am now arguing, and I am now arguing that this is in line with the spatial plans of the county, cities and municipalities cannot be, and when, when that happens, the assumption is a state plan for spatial development, a fundamental document that we are waiting for to be made and it is stipulated by law and can then arise from the obligation that a particular county, a particular city is going to think about defining a field of research or exploitation, anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182706	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182707	I'm just glad that the former government didn't bring a lex specialis some law that would deny spatial planning documentation, so forcefully, and then forcefully push something like your government brought to the LNG terminal on the island of Krk, so past the spatial planning documentation of the Omisal municipality, past the spatial planning documentation of the Primorje-goran County, which is the most important thing besides the will of the citizens, past the will of the entire policy there, your colleagues from the HDZ island of Krk opposed this project and you didn't know what you were doing and then you brought the law that put out of force all these documents and all of this and you forcedly pushed this project for which there is no economic interest, so nobody alive reported it because it was already known that it was going to be lost and then you built into the law that the state was going to pay for the losses, so look, because you didn't have to be able to do so much of this, and I't want to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182708	I appreciate the humor, but I have the impression it wasn't an ex-girlfriend, it was an ex-girlfriend. ... I don't interfere, I don't interfere in love, I don't interfere in other people's love. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Uh, now it's your turn, the answer has already been yes, ma'am. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182709	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, it would be quite convenient for us to always determine in the discussions which is the former government, so which one is meant for because there was another government between the government of Mr. Zoran Milanovic and this one, but this is not the subject of my replica, the theme of my replica is related to the LNG terminal. Indeed, when you can't work with units of local self-government or regional self-government, then you reach for a measure called lex specialis, and when you don't listen to either arguments or professions, or people who live there and who talk about that it was incomparable to work LNG terminals on land, that it's done in stages, that everything is defined, but that's when people always say listen to my words, not what's written and what is. The documents of the spatial arrangement are based on our Constitution being adopted locally and regionally, and it is clear exactly who is responsible for what and it would be good to respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182710	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182711	I fully agree with you, colleague Mrak Taritash, and that is why I was also encouraged to have an individual debate because here is my colleague Bačić, in his debate, well confirmed that, in essence, spatial planning documentation should be the basis for outcomes and local permits and later all. And then we have an example of this LNG unhappy on the island of Krk that's all the opposite of what they're saying. So that's why I wanted to say that again to point out these illogicalities, or when we refer to spatial planning documentation that should be the basis of this as you said both the Constitution and the will of the local population, then we should stick to it in all laws and in all cases. It can't be a little bit here I will, and here I won't, or as it pleases me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182712	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182713	Thank you very much. Here I would like to ask the Ministry's representative to answer this question which appeared in the new draft which is now in the procedure of the Split-Dalmatia County's proposal for a spatial plan, the public debate was concluded a month ago, where new research areas are being determined, nine new areas of investigation. What has led to these new nine investigative areas in Split-Dalmatia County in the area where Split-Dalmatia County is projected for drilling near the island of Jabuk, Vis and Palagreža in the new spatial plan of Split-Dalmatia County? I'd like to talk about the investigation here, I know this is a directive, that we simply don't have to be obedient, but somehow obediently takes us in the wrong direction, I wish we had the courage and strength to protect in full application of the exclusive economic belt and of the 24,000 square miles of the Adriatic that we have the right to international law, but absolutely no one has had the courage so far. We suggested it, we put it to the vote, the government didn't accept, it didn't pass, we gave it again in the procedure and to protect what is currently giving us the biggest income, I repeat, from tourism coming a little less than 18% of GDP, and in the end to survive people on the islands living in the coast, to stop concreteisation, to stop these harmful projects and these hydrocarbon exploitations in a way that we simply didn't... we as a country of strategic goals because I don't understand how this appeared in the proposal and the public debate in the proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County means the premises of the research new hydrocarbon space, so there's just no coordination. There are stakeholders as usual in energy simply interested groups we have not used funds for microsolars, and we have not dealt with wind power plants where we invest a billion and a half kuna. Here I am now looking at my Sinj we will be just wind power plants, on every hill, when you come to Alka we can hang on all these wind power plants, pictures of them putting up alkara photos of alkara, alkari boys, meaning not looking at the landscape, the environment, the cost-effectiveness, except for us for wind power plants at renewable springs money from the pockets of our citizens. We had alternative solutions and it was mostly private projects, foreign private projects, and it was such a policy, harmful. Yesterday when I walk towards Knin when I look at what kind of wind these are... almost literally... places from Knin to the Serbs, I don't know who went to make those new decisions. In the government, MOST has not been since the 4th month, but in the 5th month decisions were made immediately by the Ministry of Energy, the energy environment has been made. They've been through all the studies, so I mean disaster. I would love to hear the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Economy speak about this to say what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in research areas that appear to be hydrocarbons for oil or gas, is there any Croatian interest there and is this interest and this calculation greater than what we have tourism and the threat of tourism? I repeat, we are only fortunate to have the currents as they are, we have no pollution on our coast. Let's not forget what would have happened if any disaster had happened, not at the level of the Gulf of Mexico, which was disastrous, but anyway. Here's Mrs. Yurichev. What would that mean for Vodice to be an ecological disaster? What would it mean for people in this area, who live here, for tourists, for all of them? We're just gonna take a micro, so it's just not to play with this. We must protect our territorial waters and, of course, international waters and an exclusive economic belt as far as we can see, is that our interest, that's our right. But we don't have that courage, we don't have that strength. So here we have today, I repeat, the concreteization of the coast, we have research areas where in Split-Dalmatia County, the new nine listed areas of investigation and in very important, very sensitive areas like I said and where we're going to have, I don't know what it looks like, who's normal here, is that crime, so there'll be these oil platforms if it is. Stop, which is why you're not investigating the fact that you're not doing oil platforms, you're doing it. It will be an excellent tourism promotion for Croatia. With these so far and now what we have. We're trying to tell you what our strategic interest is. If, in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, a proposal that has passed the now public debate, there are 9 new areas of investigation i.e. space this, the space where the hydrocarbons are explored, then that tells us everything. That our primary exploration of hydrocarbons is in the Adriatic, and who knows whose interest. We haven't defined that yet, and who would have more profit than in the northern Adriatic, there would be more Italians than ours or tourism is our backbone. We have any strategy in the state? Because our tourism backbones agricultural production, extra value or this field of investigation, because they don't work, we're not looking at hydrocarbons to not draw later, but to draw. And so here we are, now that we're here at the research fields in the Adriatic. This is the speciality of HNS, which is why you are the most professional in HNS, a colleague of Bačić, which is why you find HNS fantastic, and immediately in 5 months, wind parks have been cleared, you will see how many permits, check and in 5 months how many new wind parks are signed, and you will see. It's going to be a wind power plant, but unfortunately, 1.5 billion dollars will have to be foreign investors. Instead of microsolars, but there's no such thing. So in this case, and I am absolutely doubtful of the positive intentions no matter what you say this is a directive, security, uncertainty about what it is. However, when I look at the spatial plans, proposals, the spatial plans of the Split-Dalmatia County that there are 9 new areas of investigation and that we will look directly at these oil platforms. So you determine that oil platforms are perspectives, not tourism. And good. I think that my Sinjsko polje is being processed, that the flat wheels from where the colleague is being processed, that, to irrigate the Sinjsko polje, to give us Drinski, Petrovo, Imotsko, and not to come before the election, I set up the cornerstone of Zagvozd, the road this Zagvozd – Imotski, so when the prime minister is after 5 of my times, which I have four amendments, he says, we will make it to the 2023rd road to Imotski. I think we have much smarter projects for the survival of these people, we have agricultural land we have karst areas and that we need to build a strategy of the Republic of Croatia on that. We have all the resources, and.../incomprehensible/... when we enter the research fields that appear now in the spatial plans for the hydrocarbons then we try to make a strategic decision, someone publicly say that we are going to the Adriatic to investigate. Or let's say again, Minister Coric comes to the island of Dalmatian a few months ago, collects all the mayors and mayors and now tells them Dinara is a nature park, I absolutely agree that nature park will be Dinara. Dinara what she has is a fantastic area of protection in, even the triba to be a national park Dinara. And not only because of the circumstances of beauty but also because of the importance of Croatia's freedom, what was meant by Dinar as a mountain, so the tribal would at least take a little care of these people on this side of the border, meaning from my Sinjski, Imotski, Vrgoračka polje, both from the Lithuanian, Danube area, but nobody is taking care of who cares. Sit down like this with elections when certain projects are promised. So we're not strategically defined, we're just adapting to some interests, import lobbys, so we're showing up to import from Hungary meat that we've already eaten a few dozen tons of meat that the chickens that are infected by the information that are coming. Therefore, the Croatian Republic is unrelated to this topic, the Republic of Croatia is a state that must have its own survival strategy in 2/3 of the Republic. Not all awareness of foreign interests in wind power plants, research fields, exploitation fields, but most in the hands of foreign investors. I don't mind the market. However, we must protect our national interests and people must, we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. And after Dinara did that meeting, he said we have an investigative new field in the Dinara area, and two days before he said he would be. Nature Park. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182714	Thank you. You have several replicas. Djujic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182715	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I would not use tourism as an alibi to stop development and economic activities. You said yourself on several occasions that tourism is 20%, almost 20% of Croatian GDP, I don't think that's good. And most people who deal with the economy and the economy will tell you that's not good. And it needs to be further developed. Now, we need to open a debate about it. I think that the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons and tourism can be combined, but that environmental standards should be adhered to, standards, security and so on, and that is why, among other things, we are passing this law. On the other hand, you said that in the spatial-planned documentation of the Split-Dalmatia County, 9 new fields appear, at least there they appear. So, people said themselves there that they wanted it. I am again telling you the example of the LNG terminal on the island of Krk which appeared there even though it is not in space-planned documentation. So that's all the things to talk about, but the economy and the economy have to move forward. We can't chat somewhere because we're all gonna get beat alive and we can't live on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182716	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182717	And I immediately agree that 18% less than 20% of GDP from tourism is not the best message and it is not always good and it is not always sustainable in any disaster or any earthquake in tourism can result in the collapse of the complete system of the Republic of Croatia. However, that tourism can be a new additional value in the development of agriculture, organic agriculture, so we in Croatia have 700,000 hectares of untreated organically preserved agricultural land, 700,000 m2, hectares of pardon. So, I don't have any problem if strategic Croatia tells me the development of research fields to develop, but I don't see any strategy here I see only drawing 9 new fields, I told you about my county, 9 new... fields in very critical areas, on all issues as I have said and seen concreteization of our coast, from Makarska di I was, a set of concreteization, uncontrolled concreteisation but there were responsible mayors and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're Pharaohs, so they let it happen. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182718	- Mrs. Crescent. A dark Taritate, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182719	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, it is good that there are different attitudes, it is good that there are different opinions, it is good to talk about it and really think that there is a possibility that we should define that we have a country in which we are only developing certain things, in which we have no exploitation, nothing that could in any way harm in terms of climate change, everything that is but we need to know whether we are ready to have such a country, from which we will live and who will do it all together. So you can also talk about areas where agriculture can be dealt with, so it's all theoretically drinking water but it's the theme of who's going to do it because then we're going to have to introduce people who are going to do it. So there's no black-and-white, there should be a series of compromises like this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182720	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182721	Thank you very much. So I agree fully that we need to conduct a debate and speak what is important strategically, I am not the most appropriate to say that we need this number of investigative spaces such as in Split-Dalmatia County 9 new with these existing ones, I am not the most relevant but there have been 9 new investigative spaces in the proposal for a new spatial plan. However, when we talk about development and strategy, of course we now have 2/3 of Croatia empty as we have 18% of GDP from tourism, so we have 6.6% of GDP from foreign remittances. So no one had a bigger, and no one had Ireland when it had the biggest emigration, the biggest economic crisis, when the biggest demographic fall, when everyone was moving out, didn't have 6.6% of our people's GDP towards the CNB and how much more money, came in cash when people came in, so we have to work to get these people back to their hearths and our Slavonia, Zagora, Lika to be, to make a strategy to survive in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182722	Thank you. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182723	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, I don't know if you've confused yourself or said it on purpose when you said that tourism is the main activity and agriculture should be added value to tourism, in all the most developed economies of Europe is exactly the other way around, agriculture is one of the main activities and every country that relys on agriculture is stable and one that relies on tourism can easily regret that it's based on any excess that can happen in the country can significantly knock down revenues in tourism even though we have to ask ourselves a question that these are incomes because a large part of the tourism capacity is in foreign hands so that what remains other than VAT in Croatia than tourism from tourism is very discriminatory. As far as research is concerned, and the strictest ecological standards to be adopted of course, however, accidents always happen and we need to weigh what Croatia has from these surveys, which is the benefit of the Republic of Croatia from such research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182724	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182725	In this first part, I agree that perhaps I said that we have no additional value from tourism but that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty but we have 700 000 ha under the weeds of agricultural clean land and of course that agriculture should be the bearer, one of the holders of the Croatian economy and it is not, nor in tourism, we do not use our domestic production as we should use it but simply have more benefits from Italian, Italians who are engaged in agriculture, Hungarians who import us who know what kind of meat and other state, and here I agree that agriculture base with development because we have a country and in our crumb can develop agriculture because we see our karst pastures, your Slavonia, Podravina, everything is empty. So I agree here that it's not good just to base on tourism without it being a spine, the backbone of production means here's food, agriculture and everything else that needs to be done, so I'm okay with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182726	Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182727	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, when it comes to oil, gas or such energy research, it is a very important thing for Croatia. Thank God we have any of that, and if we explore that we have a lot more, we'll have bigger interests, local communities have interests through the mine, it's all environmentally acceptable because here, in my Slavonia where we have oil fields, where there's no problem, God forbid we cover all of Croatia that we have 100%, we had gas 60%, now I don't believe we have, we're not guilty, we're not talking about us, but we're guilty of selling INA, there was no need to sell, from which someone did it, we all know it well but continue research in Croatia, yes. Let's not be afraid of foreign investors in the Croatian state because we are in Europe and so can we invest in Germany and thank God that we went out and now we have money, they come back through and like you just said, right? The state must go forward and must work and it is one thing that is important and the exploration of gas is ours certainly forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182728	Time, Mr. Mouse. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182729	Thank you very much. I'll tell you one example. The Republic of Croatia has, is a Mediterranean state, has one of the highest sunny days in the EU and many Scandinavia countries use more energy and energy, more microsolars, solar energy than Croatia. Now imagine which one is absurd from our country. We have the greatest potential, our sun. But they prefer that HEP paid billions of kunas of rose winds in the Republic of Croatia, that someone who was the director of HEP took those projects and that these projects are being mastered. It's much more expensive but it doesn't have the courage to say every word, you know... This, that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we use, the sun doesn't use, less than the Finns. But that makes sense, I think? Instead of all the institutions, in all the homes of families that have no addictions, which are poor, we could have made mukts of peacemakers in a year how much we pay subsidies who knows who and what to the foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182730	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debates, Mr. Branko Bacic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I've already said the position of the HDZ Representatives Club in the name of the club, and now I'm going to say a few more words that I didn't then or I've said in part. So, I argued, and then I argue, and now that the basis for the action and determination of the exploitation fields is exclusively spatially planned documentation, and that was my fundamental reason, one of the fundamental reasons why I wrote the impelation to the contrary and against the process of exploring the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, which was prescribed in 2014, and I think that in early 2015, the permits were issued to certain companies that appeared in that tender. And now I'm standing at the same position, there's no difference with me. Therefore, the basis for any exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons must be based on spatial planning documents, I repeat, and no county spatial plan in Croatia for all counties that are coastal does not involve the formation of any exploitation fields for research and exploitation. When Mr. Djujic calls me about not using us, we do not respect the position of local self-government, I would remind you of you, and I am glad that there is then a minister in the government of the SDP that there will be no doubt, whether it has passed or passed the government, she has defined by her Law on Spatial Planning until then the non-existent principle that it is possible to intervene and impose against the will of the units of local self-government and their representative bodies for a certain purpose. It was then defended here in this House and in a way that these measures were legally intervened that until then no state urban planning of the arrangements that are now being done was in place. So it's possible now that the state, the ministry of certain projects that it considers to be of state importance, are building itself an urban planning at the state level. There was no such thing as before, there were units of local self-government that brought it in. So contrary to will, we can say otherwise, it can sometimes be in line, and it may be contrary, the state has the power to bring such state-owned urban planning to the arrangement of space. What was well said at the time, which is that a state plan of spatial order will be made. And this state plan of spatial order must be a premise for any entry into this process, especially when we talk about coastal research. So far, there is a 1999 Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which is prescribed that it is possible because it would not be possible to operate these platforms that exploit gas in the Adriatic. Now that we're moving into some new definition of a field where we'd explore or exploit hydrocarbons, guess by me, conjecture and that's what I was talking about then and now I'm talking about, is making a state plan of spatial development that can be said because it's a state interest to, for example, be 50 kilometers from Split or 28 kilometers from Rijeka at some location to do this, explore and possibly exploit it later. So it's a procedure for me. So that we don't come to what fellow Bull says we don't know if we're interested in one or the other, is that justifiable or not. The assumption of this spatial plan is a strategic impact assessment of the environment, which, if I remember, I read, already in May last year launched a ministry aimed at developing a strategic impact assessment of the environment, which would be the basis for making a state spatial plan that should not only include land, I was against it then, not only a land part of the space but a complete space of the Republic of Croatia including ZERP on which Croatia has sovereign rights. So, the state spatial development plan should answer the question, whether it can be paid off, is that in accordance with the high level of environmental conservation criteria of either land, sea or sea, whether at some location, this justification with the aim of preserving the marine environment if we talk about this law can be set up by certain platforms. This is also an assumption of the Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan, there is no doubt about it with me. I am not, the waist will say until the end which is, on this will be declared by the ministry, I am not that any new field can be formed in any county unless it is in accordance with the state plan of spatial development, and if no strategic environmental impact assessment has been made for that state spatial plan, and probably for the very microlocation in which that field applies. I have been unpreserved since the first day and 2015 and today in the same position, and I was opposed to it and I gave it to Mrs. Dark Taritash, who was not in her position until then, even though she signed that the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons could only be done in the ZERP, and not in the territorial sea she rightly signed, but I say the government did not respect that opinion too much, went into the process. That's one level. The second level is the fact that ZERP is, and I want to say, that ZERP is an exceptional means to which, when it comes to fishing and when it comes to ecology, which is a very large apparatus at the moment, the power in the hands to act and in ZERP is in accordance with the rules defined by IGP, when it comes to ecology there is no difference whether the Republic of Croatia has declared its IGP or has declared ZERP, the same elements as the coastal countries we now have in case of any, any pollution of a smaller or larger state can be charged, everything we have in the economic context of the economic economy we have, and when it comes to fishing for the IGP because there is now crying for the IGP because there is no more important use of the ZERP from the heart, and there is no more important use of ZERP, and there is no more important use of ZERP, so there is no more important use of ZERP. You asked me and this, I will answer you for, and for the floating LNG terminal, as far as I have information, the LNG terminal is not opposed to the spatial plan document of the Primorje-Gorski County, nor to the municipality of Omistalj, it is treated with the first phase of the construction of the terminal and in this sense is a required local permit, that it is in line, that it is not in line, although the Administrative Court has destroyed it, if the policy, if we will observe those operating through the system of administration of local, regional or state, issue some document, issue a local permit that is contrary to the spatial plan document, probably the Administrative Court in the first and second degree, how much information the location permit is issued because it is considered the first phase, the first stage, for the reason that it is held that this land terminal in financial terms of the facilities that would be purchased, is not justified and that would be very much of the capacity of the LNG, which would be very much of the city in the city. And the second thing, just by respecting the attitude of the Municipality of Omisalj has changed the way of controlling regasification in such a way that there will be no electric... This system against conversion rather than, rather than precisely at the request of the Municipality of Omisalj would go with the mechanical removal of the conversion that occurs when the sea passes through drowning pipelines, drowning itself, self-infused gas or liquid gas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, as far as this is concerned, I believe that the procedure has been rightly established, different approaches, whether this one is better or, or land, I am not an expert to that end, but as far as respect is concerned, the spatial planning documents and demands of local self-government, I think it's largely adopted. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182732	Mr. Djujic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182733	If LNG terminal in Krk is in line with the spatial planning documentation of Omisalj municipality in Primosrko-Gorski Kotar County as you speak, why in this Assembly you have passed a special law regarding LNG terminal, lex specialis so called, then it is not necessary for you, but in normal procedure you could get all the permits as it went, but unfortunately it is not so and you know that you do not speak for yourself by floating LNG terminal but by speaking first phase, first stage, what, fixed, so fixed in spatial planning documentation, that is what the Municipality of Omisalj and the Primorje-Goran County are doing all the time, and this floating which is your first phase is usually going to remain permanent, but neither does he have any economic nor economic justification because the competition for his construction has been reported alive, so no one must have reported it alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182734	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182735	So, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djijic, there is no local authorisation issued or can be issued, but in the procedure of reviewing its power, it will have to define, determine and put out of force. As regards lex specialis, why, why, when your government was at your disposal, we passed the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects, why, if it had, adopted it, for certain projects which are strategic in nature in the Republic of Croatia, would have paved the way through other laws that, in any way, were important in this project from the point of view to the Law on Maritime Good, the Law on Extortion, the Law on Building Land, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Maritime Goods, etc., in order to speed up certain procedures that the then Government seemed to be too slow and to slow down the resolution of strategic projects in the same way that the same logic happened. in this lex specialis. [[Intruder: Time, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182736	The time and last replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182737	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Bačić, therefore the Republic of Croatia has a tradition of spatial planning that is not since yesterday, basically we base ourselves on PPH, it was a spatial plan of some other Republic and what was the idea of a state spatial plan was actually the idea that the state knew what it wanted, the spatial plan had to be a country's spatial plan, from which it must be read in what sense the economy of a country developed even before 10.g. And before 5 and today, still. And when it comes to the Adriatic, I have recently heard information that, as a matter of fact, I remained a little surprised, but logically, says the Adriatic is the coldest sea of the Mediterranean, which is logical when you look geographically, but in the Adriatic what should be a mother of everything is a strategic impact assessment of the environment, to see how much it is spent today, which is and how much of the capacity that the Adriatic is suffering at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182738	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, absolutely everything you said, you said in defense of all my thesis, which is that the state's spatial development plan should be adopted, we found it, it will change some other documents that are in place. The basis for its adoption must be a strategic environmental impact assessment that will determine whether there are any sightings, projects, programmes that Croatian governments or Croatian politics are looking for, Croatian society may survive in some space or not despite our demands, wishes, reflections that some economic activity should be done there. Which, and we agree here, is what I did four years ago, and now I'm advocating, and I'm the same. And as for this second part, there are no procedures in the Adriatic without a strategic environmental impact assessment. This must be a holy letter in the course of any activity The Adriatic. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182740	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates, now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182741	Respect to the Honorable Chairman. I have no bad intentions just to point out that at the same time as the assembly discusses the exploration of hydrocarbons, we have very serious problems not only in Split but also in this case we see in Međimurje. A young man sent me and he said, the title says if someone has to lose their head. According to Kotoriba, there is a large place in Međimorje on the border with Hungary, where more than 3,000 people live, including 300 members of the Roma national minority, according to the official 2011 census. Most of them live in a Roma settlement at the very entrance to the place. While some of them separated and bought houses in Kotoriba. In the last few months in Kotoriba, incidents and attacks on locals have taken place by individual members of the Roma national minority. Chronologically, in early November of last year, an adult male struck and fainted a boy for 13 years in the seat itself, and a betting worker was attacked because he refused to pay off his work hours. In mid-December, an unsavoury scene took place on a train where a 21-year-old tried to attack the conductor. The event most shaken the locals was the march of three young men in the shops, one catering facility where they threatened and stole in turn, and according to witnesses, there were shootings from guns on the day before Christmas, which was confirmed by the president of the Roma National Minority Council of Kotorib. In addition to all of this, burglaries and thefts in houses and shops that are no longer reported by the citizens who are or are not found guilty, if found it is impossible to collect the damage. Members of local associations lose their will to work because their rooms are being breached almost every month. The Kotoribes started a petition with the goal of the Kotoriba police being back 24 hours a day because the locals felt insecure. The petition was launched after the events a few days ago when two members of the Roma national minority attacked a waiter who was beaten by ashtrays in a café, and later asked for help in the local emergency room where he was again attacked by those same people. There he defended himself by using pepper spray for which he was zealously punished with several thousand kunas. There is a police building in Kotoriba, but it is almost not used because the police occasionally come to the scene. The desire of the locals is for a police patrol to always be in Kotoriba in order to at least increase the safety of those who live there, and every day they suffer the terror of some members of the Roma national minority who are all more arrogant and no one is doing anything. He says, "Citizens don't feel safe anymore, and no one reacts, do something urgent." I'd like to say that I...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182742	Mr. Perner, it's me, you said you had no bad intentions, neither do I, you're totally out of the Rules of Procedure because you're off topic and you're explicitly saying, you read, all those who listened, it's clear to everyone. We can break up now, I'd be begging you, don't watch the clock, you've been saying more than five minutes than you should have, but I've given you that opportunity because we want to be tolerated. Can we conclude now? You've read the whole part. I'm giving you the right to another closing sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182743	Mr. Radin, thank you very much. If these points were on the agenda, i.e. Theme I would then very much like to speak within that point, but unfortunately this topic has never come to the assembly for debate. [[Intruder: I agree with you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182744	...you have that statement as an independent agent, so you can talk about it there. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182745	Mr. Radin, thank you for your instruction, I'd just like to give you a final thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182746	Please finalize the thought, briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182747	Just the final thought. More police should be placed in Kotoriba and another thing I will propose changes to the Penal Code to increase sentences from 6 months to 5 years, to 5 years to 15 years because the current penalties are unfortunately stimulating for those who are dealing with crime and are simply not being adequately punished. And as far as this agenda point is concerned, we've seen that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182748	And if you intend to talk about this point.../incomprehensible... then I am giving you all the rights of this world. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182749	I would like to say that the conflict between HDZ and SDP in general about whether to operate a floating LNG terminal in Krk, is actually about whether it should be fixed or floating, but it is clear that whatever it is, that gas that will be imported more expensive than the one we are currently receiving by pipeline. The construction of the South Stream, or ultimately of the Turkish flow, of pipeline gas will be further fuelled and I simply do not see the meaning of building LNG terminals and I believe that it is the wrong decision of our government and I believe that it stems from the service relationship between the two leading parties in Croatia against the US government. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182750	Now it's Mrs. Dark Taritash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182751	... All right, all right. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. The subject is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Act in OBD and hydrocarbon exploitation, so I will really go back to the topic and talk about what is through these amendments and additions to the law, which is also foreseen and what carbon exploration and exploitation means at all. During the time that we discuss here, or yesterday and the day before yesterday, the conference was in Davos, which remained, in the, floor, with this large layer of climate change where Mr Trump is talking about the lack of climate change, i.e. diminishing their importance, and on the other hand, there is a really intense activism that insists on or says that adaptation to climate change is absolutely necessary, even more so that certain activities should be closed, i.e. limit. In the context of these extreme views, we would say, no more research, no more exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic in terms of adaptation to climate change, all together we have to leave and finish the story, but that man needs to be realistic. So that's where a man needs to move in real frames. This extremism, extreme attitudes related in general to the exploitation of all hydrocarbons and everything else, that extreme attitude is good because it actually encourages people to think about making individuals, to make a strategy, to make individual action plans. We in Croatia talk very little about climate change, we think that the time has come to talk about it much more and that all of the activities and activities we perform, that we really care about the sensitivity of the space and the way it is. In that context, it seems to me, too, that I am now speaking, although I wanted to speak for the club on behalf of myself, but something else I say individually, absolutely that it is good to make this kind of change and add to the law for the reason that these are being provided for further, I would say insurance related to research and exploitation and haiarium that can occur there. So this is about obligations, or the commitment of one who investigates or exploits, and the way in which it will be controlled. If I am not mistaken, and I am not mistaken, it was one pilot project that pointed out that the solution that was in the existing law is not good but that solution should be adapted to the conditions that there can be no smoking and suing and cadium, so there is one body that will then take account of it. And here it speaks in the contribution of Croatia that takes care of the sensitivity of the space, which makes sure that it has to live in the given frameworks, we can not be a country that will serve everyone else, as we have, I don't know, just doing clean jobs, you can't serve it and you can't do it and you just have to be aware of the facts in which it is. What I was saying in Mr. Bačić's replica, and I'm going to talk about the documents of the spatial arrangement. There is sectoral planning and there is integrated planning. Sector planning is based on each sector planning its sector exactly as it should, and integratedly taking care of everything. I always advocate taking care of everything and now you come to research and exploitation. There's a difference between research and exploitation. You can explore, you can explore, so you're investigating to see if there's any capacity or if there's a basis for exploitation. So it can be a much wider space where you can explore, and a lot of narrow space where you can exploit, and that's where we come to documents of spatial order and hierarchy. Croatia has a long tradition of spatial planning, it is not since yesterday, it is based on some plans from a former era, I often mention the PPH or the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, that I am not now challenging and not saying what it was, it was a basic document. The document reads how Croatia intends to develop, how it intends to develop the economy, more importantly, the development of roads or the development of railways. We're moving into another system, we've given up a little bit of it, we've transferred it to the spatial plans of the county and the spatial plans of the units of local self-government that we had, before they were 115, and now there's 556 and plus those 20 spatial plans of the county and what we need, and in this sense, the state spatial plan, but in terms of carbon exploitation, we're thinking about, so we're talking ashore here, so in the Adriatic, we don't have anywhere else. We think of the Adriatic Sea as a serious sea. In the context of the Mediterranean, we are one bay and it should be thought so not to say in the context of all other seas and what would be crucial at this time would be to make a strategic assessment of the environmental impact, but not for one procedure, but for the Adriatic to see what this capacity of the Adriatic is. So because the Adriatic Sea uses Italy, we use, it uses Montenegro, it uses Albania, so we have several and yes, so we already have some data and we have and we know exactly how the electricity is. We know where the Adriatic Sea is shallow or deeper, but through that assessment of the Adriatic Sea would be the exploitation of hydrocarbons because on one side of the Adriatic Sea you are really pissed all the pillars, Italy uses it and richly that you can't be rich. Of course, from another time when the relationship to space, according to the environment, to climate change was significantly different than today and it is good to control everything else, but through this strategic environmental impact assessment, we should see how much marinas suffer in the Adriatic Sea, how much construction is suffered along the coastal line. So a series of things. And that's something that should be given an answer and that should be a prerequisite for a state spatial plan. The state spatial plan of course is gone, it's done, we'll see where it's going to be, in that time we, as soon as there's a debate on hydrocarbons in this Assembly, it always causes a little return to old things, but it doesn't need to be returned, it needs to be in the context in which it is. We live at a time when the EU has declared itself even and we are talking about green trade, we are talking about new jobs, we are talking about climate change adaptations, we are talking about crisis situations, we are saying that small countries do not have an alibi, and this law should be seen in the context of all this. Context is next. That we decided to explore and then exploit hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. As real and as real as it will be, it will show time and this law, after the pilot project we had, actually gives an answer to ensure that if there comes any kind of carnage and anything, that we know how we're going to act because, no matter what, it's causing a debate that goes into exploitation, or even later on, hydrocarbon exploitation, this is ultimately a technical measure to ensure and obtain conditions if something happens, how it should be done. Of course it was a pilot project on our law because already some of the experiences in some other seas were enough to go to the North Seas and see what it looks like, so it's not even close to the Mediterranean seas. The Mediterranean must have a completely different ecological story, so we will support this law in the first reading, we think that he has given answers in a certain way and we will see how it will be in practice. If we're going to have and I'm going to end up, the problem when we establish all these control systems, who does, is the question of whether or not we're going to have enough people who can do it without conflicting interest because those who are doing this can't deal with exploitation, they can't deal with anything else, the question is, it would be good to do a check on whether we have enough people who can do it without bringing someone into an inappropriate relationship or position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182752	We don't have any replicas, and now the Secretary of State, Mr Ivo Milatić, will have the final word on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182753	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs for this exhaustive debate. What makes us happy is that in principle all clubs and all debaters supported this law that goes really in order to make as much security as possible and as high-quality environmental protection as possible because we are all aware that regardless of the importance of tourism as important a branch of our economy, that simply nature is the most important branch, most important of all, and that we here, who live, must preserve ourselves. I can't help thinking that the debate was actually more about the carbon exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons than about the measure of things like this law here, which it deals with, what's important to note is that Mr. Bulj here presented dramatic situations about the spatial plan in Split-Dalmatia County, it's not a drama. This is the following, the County of Split-Dalmatia has proposed research fields according to the Framework Plan and the Research and Exploitation Programme on the Adriatic, which was still adopted in 2015, my guess is, I did not plan in detail but I suppose, in the same way, according to this plan and programme, it is clear that the research must not be done at a distance of 10 and more 6 nautical miles from the island or coast line or from the protected area, without being exploited more than 15 km from the protected area line either from the last island or from the coastal line. So we're actually talking here all the time about any future research that would happen in the open sea, the issue of land, the island, is simply out of the question because 15 km is, there's not one island that's not less than 15 km away from each other, meaning that, but now I'm not prejudicing the thing about the county spatial plan, it's certain that the services in our ministry and in the Ministry of Spatial Planning are going to be able to do that, and clearly, it's obvious. I couldn't agree more with Mr. Bačić's discussion and all of you, and especially you at the end now, ma'am. Tarritate, that the simple spatial plan is the basis of the whole story and that it needs to be incorporated into everything that we intend to do and what is very important, that we are convinced that this law contributes to it and that spatial plans are better because it has introduced maximum standards of protection. As for microsolars, as I am on the phone, I still have to look back at Mr. Bulja's constant repetition of microsolars, the respected home should probably know, and here for the sake of the Croatian public, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has had a contest for Croatian citizens' microsolars and which is not, the funds have not all been used. So around 80% of the funds were used because there was insufficient interest and incentives from the fund were moving up to 80% in specific state areas. So, Mr. Bulja's concern is okay, it's his right, but here we expect that next year, this citizens' interest will be growing and that it will go its way as most important that we go and with this work, that citizens are able to get serious state support to make their own little micropower plant that would help in their home budget to reduce the electricity consumption to about 30 percent. Mr. Pernar here referred to both the LNG terminal and the southern current, simply these are two things that can't be viewed unambiguously, the LNG terminal is something we can do now, which is practical in making and which will be very soon finished. Here I have been in this position for 2.5 years and we've been trying to build this joint company IAP or the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline, hopefully here these days it will finally be over, and the Montenegrins who still have some dilemma about it, so here goes the third meeting in Baku and we are now in a situation that simply this company will slowly be established. It is not just to say let's make a gas pipeline from the south, you must know that the gas pipeline is 500 km, of those 500 km, 249 km is on Croatian territory, it is not a joke, it is serious money and it is simply something that will take place, LNG is a situation that is relatively fast solved and gives additional security to Croatia to have an alternative direction and to protect itself in a priced sense and in a security sense. We will consider all these discussions and finally, absolutely and agree with the the thesis that tourism is good that it is already almost 20% of GDP but that other activities should be developed and energy throughout the story is not important but would dare to say and be too important. It's a waste of telling us how great tourism is if in the peaks of the tourist season when we need electricity, we're being blackmailed by those who import electricity for a huge amount of 100, 120 euros per megawatt, then I'd ask you what the interest of the state is that we give these huge amounts of money to such imports if we could provide in Croatia energy that we could possibly also through gas power plants as balancing systems for renewable sources that are growing every day, ironing those disadvantages and not importing? So as it is said, this whole story is multi-significant, it's not so simple to say why it's not, why it's not, I can also ask Mr. Bulja how the Sinjsko polje is abandoned and so close to one market and it's the town of Split but it's obviously too heavy a subject and it's just something that's going to be solved later and when it comes to coastal research, we're convinced that this law is a good solution and we're going to consider what Mr. Bacic on behalf of the club said about ZERP, that we're standing with possibly an EU regulation that we wouldn't challenge ourselves maybe some new pilot, but if it's possible, absolutely us as a ministry, I think it would be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182754	Thank you very much. You've managed to have a closing word without a replica. Well, then, all I have left to say is I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions come down, we'll have another debate about it soon anyway, I think, right? The second reading will be quick, right? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The vote isn't on Friday, as far as I know, but we'll see. Isn't that right? Tomorrow, so I'm closing the debate, tomorrow we will continue with the first item of the agenda, which is the Final Proposal of the Private Protection Act. ... I'll tell you more... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Wait a minute, I'm sorry, I'm just gonna tell you two more points that are planned, that's what I'm saying because I know it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions in First Reading and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow. SESSION Interrupted at 15.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-22-0.u182755	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Coal Research and Carbon Exploitation, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 821. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Security Act in the field of ODA and hydrocarbon exploitation, and secondly, any observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for, 11 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
