ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202637	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, these amendments and additions are adopted for several key reasons. In the first row, it is about harmonising with the Council Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council on the entry and import of cultural goods, and in the first row, in the part which regulates forms and forms and infringements, and then on compliance with the Law on Construction and also on certain harmonisations related to the elemental disasters caused by this situation which took place in Zagreb and the two surrounding counties. These are also the reasons why the government is proposing that these changes be amended and adopted in an emergency procedure. So, first of all, compliance with the regulation, but we believe that because of these circumstances of the earthquake and compliance with the Construction Act, since this law provides for a reduction of certain procedures, it would be important to adopt the law by emergency procedure. Allow me to highlight in short lines the areas to which these changes and additions apply. In the first place, I would mention that we are introducing the term “Archeological Park” given the great interest of our different JLS for editing, better management, and then also in some way by exploiting and presenting to the public and tourists of archaeological parks, in fact, this concept is introduced into the law as a special concept. Also, the term “conservator elaborate” which I will explain a little later when I talk about an article in which we are in harmony with the Construction Act. I'd like to draw attention to my ankle. 7th subst. 4. where we introduce the term "memorial area" among different definitions of cultural goods. This is also in line with our government's efforts to edit registers and, in fact, to certain steps in the field of marking the place of memorial heritage, in fact, for those areas or events that do not have their own material value in terms of monumental historical valorisation rather than in some other sense that it is included in the register of cultural goods. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in There have been a lot of reactions in the public debate, and this applies to those amateurs who use metal detectors and actually explore certain archaeological areas as amateurs. Indeed, among them are those who do so with certain supervision of archaeologists or conservators. However, there are also those who deal with dishonest, including criminal activities, and therefore we very precisely regulate the ban on reviewing archaeological zones for metal detectors or other similar devices without prior approval by the competent authorities. So it's very important if anyone deals with this amateur thing to be with very strict surveillance so there's no illegal collection, and then illegal marketing. We've arranged the issue of surveillance of underwater activities. I'd like to draw attention to my ankle. In the 53rd century, which discusses the data on the state of cultural goods being introduced into the cultural heritage information system. This is just one sentence. However, behind it are the 3rd gs. working on making a new GIS referenced cultural heritage register in line with our government's priorities to actually bring about transparency for our citizens of all the data and all the registers we own. We have worked on this new GIS referenced register, it is now in the test phase and it will allow citizens not only to search text databases or insights into the cadastre etc., but it will allow in one easily searched way to determine whether an area or some specific building is protected as a cultural good, and in addition, this register will also connect with all other registers concerning, therefore, the Construction Act or the establishment of building permits, but also issues of the ownership of cadastras, etc. What I would also like to point out is that we foresee the adoption of a Regulation on the content of a system of protection measures for cultural goods, and protection rates for immovable cultural goods. This is going to be another step along the register I was talking about, which is geo-referencing. And also this rule that will actually give all the citizens who are planning to take some, some works on cultural goods and those involved, that you are a designer and everyone else, very clear parameters and criteria on basic conditions and protection measures for a particular type of cultural goods. Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, so as to be amended. In 60, 61, 61a and b, they relate to the harmonisation of this law with the amendment of the Construction Act, so they allow the conservative service to take full account of its obligation and deadlines in relation to the issue of the e-Allegation. There have been a lot of words about the issue of e-Allegation in both the public and here in the Parliament when the law was amended. So, these changes allow the conservative service to meet its obligations in the short term as well. Here I would just point out the introduction of the conservatory lab, so what I mentioned when I was talking about terms. In the case where a building permit is issued for a cultural good that provides for more complex procedures or that are more complex in its structure, and in order to allow the construction permit to be issued within the deadlines expected, this conservatory lab will be introduced to enable the monument to be valorised, to be determined according to its system of measures, and that we have, in fact, a situation in which a citizen, within the scheduled time limits, can start e-Allot or start with his investment. I mentioned, of course, that one of the key reasons for any amendments to these, this law, amendments and additions were to comply with the regulation. It is regulated in art. Article 15. 70th in which certain provisions relating to the regulation are amended. I'd like to draw attention to my ankle. 17. which refers to the elemental accidents. During our work on these amendments and additions, unfortunately, we experienced this disaster in Zagreb. We acted, as regards the Ministry of Culture, in the way we acted after the previous earthquakes in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the process of war damage. So, I made it as a minister within 2 weeks of the decision to list damages on cultural goods, first motionless, then mobile, we formed 20 teams, the ministry will complete this complete business in accordance with the international methodology, but these actions were not fully defined by law, the law was quite general and in this sense we added articles 3 and 4 which detailedly regulate the handling of the Ministry of Culture, so the way in which the list of damages should be done and also for the purpose of easing or removing the damage done, the Minister of Culture is obliged to adopt a programme of protection and renewal of cultural goods in cooperation with the units of local and regional self-government, so this is what we are doing in Zagreb and in the area of these two counties, and now we have to adopt it in law and suggest that you accept such text which, of course, we hope that such situations will not be done, but will be done exactly. Another important amendment concerns the introduction into the law of management procedures. At this point in view of the obligations of the UNESCO Convention, we are obliged to bring management plans for those goods listed in the UNESCO Cultural List. However, this obligation does not exist for other monuments, and in particular this applies to archaeological sites, archaeological parks and archaeological sites, so here we are not talking about asset management, so it is not unclear, but we are talking about value management. So, regardless of who he is, there is very often, especially in the case of archaeological parks, as well as parks of nature or national parks, very mixed property, but we are talking about establishing a system of value management or what in international conventions is called "Value based" in order to manage such valuable localities or monumental complexes in a way that preserves their monumental properties, but that they can at the same time be put into different types of exploitation or use. In the end, we are harmonising one whole series of infringements, which I have initially said, to the greatest extent related to the EU Parliament and Council Regulation. Here, these are the most important elements of these amendments and the addition of the law, and we are here to answer any questions and I hope that you will support us and that you will confirm or vote these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202638	Let's line up with the replicas. The first is the honorary colleague, I'm sorry, colleague Panenic, come in. When the replicas pass, then there'll be a break. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202639	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, when we talk about cultural goods and this law and the copying of directives and regulations, I would remind you of what's been going on, it's two years and we haven't solved that problem. We haven't solved the house of horror in the center of the town of Sinja, Vrcanov obor which you are familiar with. It's at the top of the Alkar racetrack where the lives of citizens are threatened, we talked about it, we wrote, the city of Sinj was manifested, it's a house that means in bankruptcy, it's the owner, it's declared cultural good, there's kids playing, there's the school, here's the picture here, we said it's the only thing we can do. What's the priority? Either the safety of our people and our citizens or this house of terror and these 300-pound vats that fall down to move away. So far, you've done nothing. Please tell me how you're gonna do it. protect people and their health? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202640	Thank you. Here, the answer is, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202641	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We have answered you many times, and the mayors, this part of the law is now not in change. Thus, the law makes it very clear what local self-government can do in case the lives of citizens are at stake. So nothing's stopping it. As for the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods for you in Sinj to do what you need to do to preserve the life of Sinj citizens, it really has nothing to do with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. You can read the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202642	Now it's time for a respected colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. ... Yeah, there'll be a break after the replica right away. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202643	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, regarding this law, I refer to myself at two points, one is the alignment with the Construction Act, which is very desirable and necessary, and the other is what you mentioned about the completion of the natural disasters, in particular in case of earthquakes and floods. Does this mean that the conservative profession has so far been unable to carry out its obligations in the short term, and now this article. The 17th time you mentioned, the minister's powers, so far it has not been properly arranged, and this earthquake recently in Zagreb has actually accelerated the need to adopt this article, therefore related to the elemental disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202644	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202645	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. In this particular case is a specific situation because the City of Zagreb is the only city whose conservation department, so the City Institute for the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is not an integral part of the Ministry of Culture. However, given the scale of earthquakes and damages in Zagreb, we immediately called for a meeting the same day and took on collegiate co-operation and assistance because the city's office could not have taken all the steps, so I made a decision on the assessment, on the list and assessment of damages, all of which we did knowing that this would have to be done, and now we propose it by law to define it, not to be an act that depends, not to say about the well-willed minister or minister or ministry, but to become an obligation to act in the event of any elemental accident. So, emergency damage list and the urgent adoption of safeguard measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202646	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, this original law was written in 1999, it has been amended several times. When it was adopted, the Republic of Croatia did not declare a protected organic fishing zone. He was declared in 2003, so later his, his entry into force, was moved, but in any case he is in effect today. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in It is certain, it has no doubt that part of the archaeological sites are also located in ZERP, in a protected ecological fishing zone. It would be good for the government to intervene with these changes and introduce another additional ZERP space because it is undeniable, the Republic of Croatia has that jurisdiction or sovereign rights there. And the other thing, all that's at sea and seabed, and the seabed is an epicontinental belt. So no, territorial sea, not inside, inland seawater would be good if perhaps this is how you intervened in this law. Because I say, when it was passed there was no belt according to the modern rules of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202648	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202649	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, at this stage, we did not refer to that part of the law. However, I will note that UNESCO is 2001. Or in '03, 2001, adopted the Convention on Underwater, Protecting Undersea Archaeological Heritage. The Republic of Croatia was the third country in the world to ratify that convention. In the Republic of Croatia, the International Centre of Category 2 UNESCO works to protect underwater cultural heritage and we are recognised as pioneers or as a country that may best protects its underwater archaeological heritage. Given the complexity of the legal gain in the part of the law of the sea, this Convention has made it possible to protect cultural goods by not entering into the specificities of the different, different regimes you speak of and concerning the law of the sea. Of course, though, consideration can be considered [[Intruder: Thank you]] specific actions. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202650	Now it's Councilman Beus Richembergh's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202651	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, you stated in an explanation as well as in a text that follows the amendments and amendments to the law that several provisions were conditioned by the consequences of this earthquake in Zagreb. I remind you, the law was basically passed in 1999, 3rd year. After a devastating earthquake in Stone, where many cultural monuments died, and so far it has been changed 12 times. You're at the top of the Ministry of Culture from that total somewhere around 8. How is it possible that the work of the ministry in these circumstances has not been resolved gradually so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202652	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202653	I don't think you understood or listened to me when I told you about this argument. So, since we have in the last 2 months, a month and a half since the earthquake in Zagreb made a whole series of activities, so we have set up the method and methodology of the list of damages, we have launched teams, almost before the census was completed, so there has been no problems, there have been no problems in dealing with, with the elemental disasters, we just want what are good now, which is a good practice, to enter with two additional steps, and these two additional steps are the definition of how the list of damages is being carried out and the definition of that a programme of protection measures is being adopted. This complex area, like the urban whole of Zagreb, has never been this complex until now. It's the way it got hurt, and it's gonna have to work fast. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So, there was no problem at all... [[Intruder: Thank you Minister]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202654	Comrade Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202655	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I'm glad to see you in HS, it's only the second time since this crown of crisis that the Ministry of Culture has come before parliamentary deputies with a proposal to amend and supplement certain laws. Unfortunately, not when it comes to artists and cultural workers, I will do something about this in an individual debate, but I am interested in whether the Ministry of Culture is involved in defining the legal provisions that are related to the resolution of the consequences of the earthquake in Zagreb, and what are the priorities of the Ministry of Culture that should be incorporated into this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202656	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202657	Thank you, Madam Representative. Since I see you're following us on social networks, so you're interested in the work of culture resistors, you can see everything very precisely on our pages, you have one covid and one topic of earthquakes. All actions of the Ministry of Culture since the moment of the earthquake including the first meeting of March 22nd at 6 p.m. on which there is a record and any further actions, so forms, damage assessment methodology, all actions, instructions we have given regarding chimneys. So here's what I'm telling you and all the MPs and, of course, the general public that as far as the Ministry of Culture's conduct is concerned, it's all public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202658	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202659	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister. I understand that, you listed here and the covid and the earthquake in Zagreb, it may be one of the objects when we speak on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we are the only object, it is the restoration of churches in the Republic of Croatia, those who have entered the programme of the Ministry of Culture, they are now told that they are actually going to stop there will be no funds. It is also clear to you that certain stages of reconstruction of churches cannot be separated, they can be even phased out when the roof is changed it is a serious procedure so it cannot be revealed for a month and after six months covered church. My question, what do you intend or how can we help the units of local self-government, these parishioners to take the churches of those who have started serious investments that are now due to the performers what to do to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202660	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202661	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So it's that the ministry has approved cultural heritage funds, then there's been a crisis, there's been a drop in income because, in part, we in local self-government units and in the state budget, we count on income from the monumental rent. No work that has been initiated, which is urgent or which has begun to be carried out will be either stopped or delayed, so all those who have been granted the funds have been informed that they will report to the competent conservative department and, depending on the priorities and the recovery phase, will continue to work. So, what is not really hasty will have to be delayed, and one part of the funds are being re-scheduled for emergency assistance in the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County, given the great damage to cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202662	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202663	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honors Minister. What you have stated in the law itself is very good to create an information system that will unite everything that is determined on the ground and thus complete all necessary information. We who come from a region that also has a lot of archaeological research, and also a lot of cultural goods, we welcome it very much because we believe that with this conservative elaborate, it will be possible to apply better for EU funds. So, I think it's very good that you've united all of this, and then you've leaned upon the amendments to the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202664	Here, if you like, it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202665	Thank you. Indeed, this step that will take place in full by putting into office and the ISKB so the Cultural Heritage Information System will also allow transparent insight into the state, will be primarily one tool for citizens, but certainly as you said it will speed up our procedures. Otherwise, we didn't mention we started with more intensive work on conservative bases, especially for urban units. These are extremely important documents because based on them citizens know exactly what they are, if they can say Colloquially, rules of the game in relation to individual zones or protection systems. It is important for us in all our actions to be just, clear, concrete, transparent and what is particularly important to us that we have done most in this mandate in all conservation departments to agree to all procedures no matter where the citizen speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202666	Thank you. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202667	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honors Minister. How many cultural goods have been destroyed in the war and how many have you managed to make and return so far, to speak of the Homeland War? I know there's been a lot of work done in Vukovar, and I know it was also done in Vinkovci, in Vukedol, that Vinkovci is the oldest inhabited place in Europe. And how much have you succeeded and has the compensation been paid for the return of those cultural goods that have been destroyed and which have been done by the Croatian State? I know we're trying, but how long has it been left unsolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202668	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202669	Thank you, Mr. Representative. ... War damages listed during the war, the first resolution started during the Homeland War, a Croatian example of post-war reconstruction not only of buildings and houses but I will say, for example. Dubrovnik's urban whole declared globally the best example of post-war reconstruction. 32,000 estranged, illegally carried moving cultural goods since 2001. By negotiating bilaterally with Serbia-Montenegro, most of it has been returned, we have intensified that part, I can say that there is still, I think about 1000 pieces, and this applies to, therefore only to the mobile good of the Orthodox Church, which is waiting for the editing of the space where it will return.../Thank you/..., and we are running out of time, I am available for further information.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202670	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas. Comrade Bull, he asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202671	Thank you very much. The law on cultural goods, the directives, the regulations are prescribed. However, the laws must be of interest to the protection of cultural goods, but also to the health and safety of our citizens. Therefore, Ministers, for two years in this theatre of absurd ping pong transfers from one to another in the case of Vrcan's downfall in the city of Sinj, which is culturally well, where the investor is in squander and washes his hands of it, in bankruptcy, where he transfers it to the conservative department, so the city of Sinj triba asks the cultural council, so the building inspection said that this one is dangerous to life, means the house of horror in the city of Sinja, and we point to you all the way we're going to bring it down. You're all for demolition, from the city, the conservatory department, building inspections, but no one's tearing down that house that threatens the health of people in the area of the town of Sinj. All of you, when you come to Sinj's alka, the Honorable Minister, would ask your colleague Bačić to listen to this problem, but if it is painted on a son's pole, this is at the top of the race, on a moving cultural good when you come to the son's alka, and you're all mocking people, so what do we have to do? So, you're mocking, you're throwing ping pong into the conservatory department and you're making some regulations here and you're saying that this isn't a subject where hundreds of people are threatened, thousands of people who slaughter here and give up. Mostly in those days. You know how many school kids go through here? Well, this one joke weighs over 300 to 400 pounds a day, falling into people's passages, the only passage they have. And you're here saying it's not a topic. What's the topic? First of all, the health of the people and this tear down the ministers is our obligation to the citizens and health is there no other way. Enough ping pong, you and everyone else in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202672	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Continuation is at 11 o'clock and 25 minutes. It's 11:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202673	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.25 HOURS]] We continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 941. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? She's a colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Vuksanovic's. If not, then, I'm opening a debate. So, I open the debate first by clubs, first registered colleague Tomislav Panenic is in front of the Independent Youth List Club. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202674	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. We discussed a brief proposal of this law in March which we adopted precisely with the intention of facilitating our entrepreneurs' business under the conditions of the emerging crisis then. After that, we had an earthquake that showed, especially here in the narrow part of the city of Zagreb, the weight of the damage that occurs on monumental, monumental heritage, precisely what the bill should apply to. And we really expected this bill to be something that would introduce a revolution, something that must change the system because this current system is asking the key question, Minister, and that's the money that's being collected, how are our cultural goods protected? Because if the cultural good fell apart in one earthquake and showed all the trouble of maintaining it through this time, then with the right entrepreneurs, associations of entrepreneurs and many others who have recently appeared, and this exists since before, they're asking for the suspension of the payment of the monumental rent. And in this bill alone, you don't refer to an article. The 114th which is just that, about the monumental rent, about the obligation, except for the fact that here, and in your term, that rent is upgraded in some way, but entrepreneurs want a clear view of the government, not just of you as ministers, of your ministry. I understand that you're looking for an opportunity for something that belongs to your portfolio, but generally, another parafiscal imposition that, when we had the first weight of the situation, showed its dysfunction. We all expect funds that are collected to invest in monumental, actually cultural heritage, to preserve that and to be more lasting, in the end, we have catastrophic consequences now, here. Kola Bulj has now shown the disastrous consequences of one object, which is the place where everyone is going, especially politicians who want to be seen. And then we say so, we could go from place to place and we'd always meet up with one of those same questions, which is a question of entrepreneurs who show dissatisfaction by paying, who don't see the point. Secondly, when archaeological excavations occur at the site of their investment, they are too long-term, too demanding financially, not only to stop them, but also to create uncertainty about any investment. Of course, that's not what you came to in this bill either. And now this is all praiseworthy, the rest, but the wrong moment. That's actually what I want to mention. At the wrong moment, we're discussing something that's actually a smaller priority right now. Now if we should focus all our strengths on preserving jobs, continuing investments and all that, now we should be here discussing practically generically the laws that are under attack. At the stroke of an entrepreneur. I, as a representative here in the Parliament, cannot now deal with any point in this proposal because simply what to say to any entrepreneur who is doing business somewhere, when he asks me, is in that law what has been changed about paying the parafiscal charge. What can I tell him? No, so what were you guys talking about? What are we talking about? If we do not talk about what is needed by people who are on the ground and ultimately the owners of cultural goods to be protected, they too have a problem precisely using these funds. Who's to blame? A local self-government that takes 40% or a state that takes 40%. Those who need to be users, they don't care. They're absolutely not interested, they're just interested, where our money's gone and they think that in one entrepreneurial freedom, with one normal legal framework, they'd probably know better and better to preserve what, especially those facilities where they're doing economic activity than in this way where they pay, again the inability of the administration, and then all of us who are even going to discuss this, if we haven't gotten the effect they expect, that even if we take one step forward, then they call us that we're the arrests that we're sitting here in the Assembly,... There is no sign of a voice here and therefore we can neither continue to debate nor support such a proposal because at a time when it is certainly not a priority for any of those who are interested in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202675	Thank you, too. Here's a small intervention, and afterwards, colleague Miro Bulj, club of representatives of the Independent Lists. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202676	Thank you very much. Dear citizens. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia are our wealth, we must, of course, keep it safe. However, when we pass laws, then we must make laws in the interest of protecting cultural goods and in the interest of our citizens because I believe that if we already prescribe only directives, we must see what is on the ground, but you are ministers in the case of Sinja i.e. The buildings I'm about to finish now if I have another topic on which I'm going to ask you a few questions on behalf of the club is Vrcan's barn. It's a question of how our system doesn't work. All of them, from the conservatory department, from the ministry, from the local self-government, from the cultural council, all of them, from the construction inspection, agree that this building that I am holding now, its photograph, is in the middle of the city of Sinja is for demolition and that's the fact. However, the honourable minister, no one destroys it, and still people here give it away. Children go to school, play, and in the days of the alka, you know what's here, this is at the top of the Alkar race, you've all been to Sinj, the blue alka is a monument of culture, a moving monument of the zero category. So, we know what it represents, you're all coming to Sinj. But a building like this, I don't know why she's still here. For two years, we, the Honorable Minister, have been correspondence, three, so we've been correspondence for a long time, and I was hoping that absurd conclusion, that this absurd would be resolved when we all came to a conclusion, all the institutions to bring this building down. People are worried, that's the problem. This is where kids from school play around this building. So I will now ask you once again to seriously agree all together from local self-government, from the mayoral department, from the conservatory department, the cultural council, the building inspection and you who are all agreed that this must be destroyed is jeopardizing the lives of the citizens of Sinj and their guests. I'm going to leave this picture of the minister now to frame her and always remind yourself that this, God forbid something happens to someone, a building that collapses into the only passageway where hundreds of kids go to school. At the top of the Alkar racetrack in the town of Sinj. And that's probably how it is in other places. But this is an eclectic example of how we treat people's real lives. If health is above all else, then we must protect our citizens. So far, you've all agreed to all levels, and you haven't done that. Here, I'll leave you, so I'll take this picture, hope you frame it and put it in a good place. [[Clip incursion: Performance]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202677	Comrade Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202678	I hope, I hope that this is all serious, all the institutions that listen, who do this job, realize that it's obvious that everyone here is either for the destruction of something or for the construction of something and for the preservation of something, and no one is doing anything, obviously in the Republic of Croatia, that the system works the way it works and that's why it's visible that we have to go through a lot. Culturally well, I'm interested, culturally well in the submarine that the Republic of Croatia has been having for centuries, and that's where we have amphora, ships. If we haven't declared IGP, who controls and if you have information and how much you've captured those who are taking illegally, i.e. Stealing our cultural well-being? By declaring the IGP, the Republic of Croatia could control the submarine. However, no one does, and when we know that from Zadar to the north our Adriatic is quite shallow, so nowhere is above 100 meters deep, therefore in other places, who controls how many treasures have been there for centuries, from shipwrecks, wars,... I mentioned amphora, did it protect you and give you information on how much of it was alienated from that wealth and stolen? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the very important question for me is an example of where teleopers set base stations that are ugly on our cultural goods, and you must see this example when you go to Split on the fortress. At the Kleek fortress, which we know what it means in history, and that's our cultural good that we must be proud of, of course, and present ourselves to, and it's been working a lot, especially since the Jumpers Association has been working, it's branded a lot. However, we have a firing base station here. So is the example in Sibenik. This intention was meant to be, to pass through spatial plans and to push through, especially now that the construction of the 5G network and the bell towers of the church is announced, it is already set up which are culturally good, on the fortresses I said, and even on the fortress of Sinj, there are a spatial planon on the fortress of Zion where it is '715. And the battle against the Osmajli, which is important, means our culturally good is the blue alka, as I said, is a moving monument of the zeroth category in UNESCO and we all know what blue alka means. However, that teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia can behave in this way. That we allowed them to put the base stations, that's what burns those antennas and those Athens pillars, amazing, and it looks ugly if you can't connect. Do you know what that minister is doing? Because they have infrastructure there, they have electricity, there are mountains in other places on Klis or in my Sinj and elsewhere, so we're talking about cultural goods here, and in the area where they're cultural, meaning areas that have been declared cultural goods, like the center of cities, such as Zagreb, such as my Sinj, such as Sibenik, are setting up base stations that come to mind without any control. And I even said they're hiding them in the bell towers, church bell towers. So I don't understand whether it's a protection of cultural goods or a favor. Instead of acting as in countries where they came from, to build the infrastructure, to be distant, that is Istria and made, I have suggested to them in changes to the spatial plan from the Split-Dalmatia County, the Istrian County has made, 400 metres from the building land or the construction of the last building cannot be set up by antenna pillars, only in exceptional situations where local self-government must make a certain decision. So, on the issue of teleoperar aggression, which has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia in the area where they work, for example. HT. sister company i.e. in Deutsche Telekom, the largest profit in the EU is 42%. For what? Because they don't build anything but set up base stations wherever they think of it. So I'd like you to explain to me how it's possible and who gives permission to put those scarecrows on our cultural goods. I mentioned Klishka, but that's how it is in Sibenik, that's right, and other areas are base stations set up there. So absolutely it's a threat, it's a blow to our cultural good. Here I have asked you questions here you would point out with pride and that much more can be presented by the Republic of Croatia, moving monuments of a zero category such as Sinjska alka, of course these will emphasize Sinjska Alka and I believe that Sinjska alka will contribute much more to the presentation of the Republic of Croatia in the world and will be taken to be as much branded as possible if this ministry can, of course, be in contact and I also consider it the ministry's obligation to make such manifestations i.e. such historical, cultural, religious manifestations, knightic manifestations that symbolize the survival of people in these areas, of course you, too, of course, have your own tradition of course, but I stress this part of Sinjska Alka we know what it means, a lot has been done. We have the quality and the most beautiful museum of Sinjka Alka, I invite you who have not come, you see, I hope we use, I invite you all to Sinjska Alka, I hope there will be no crown crisis. If there's going to be an election, it'll probably be possible to race Sinj Alka, but don't just think about Sinj when you get to the alka. I believe that in Sinj, the Cetin end and my Dalmatia on this side and on these aspects of culture can be much more contributed in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202679	Thank you, too. Next in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club is counterpart Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. He's right in front of us... The reasons why this law is passed. [[Specially enabled.]] On the one hand, these are provisions, regulations and directives of the EU, on the other hand, which are what we might call technological reasons where, for example, we can call it. says a ban on the examination of archaeological zones, archaeological findings for illegal or unsupervised use of metal detectors or other similar devices for the purpose of finding them, or a technological reason is that communication between competent authorities or chronically through the application of an electronic e-authority programme is considered to ensure faster and more effective treatment. And the third reason is that this elemental accident that they put into the first plan is even more precise planning of conservation and cultural goods than their recording, informing them and making decisions. This legal framework that imposes these permanent changes and complements already begins with Croatia's entry into the EU because more of the amount of cultural goods collating within the EU is not exporting but all of these legal changes simply force us to constantly change these legal provisions to implement these technological means and ways to adapt to new opportunities, which is all the incentive and obligation to and only to plan for cultural welfare care is constantly improving. In short, for all these reasons, we need to be aware that we will be faced with changes and additions to this law in the future, and that is why we can say that these efforts are necessary, necessary and that HDZ will accept them. However, here I should stress another thing that has not been spoken of so far, which is a constant concern for planning and policy-making on cultural goods from one long-term point of view. Take an example of cultural goods such as books, images, graphics when and at what point does it become good that cannot be exported or exported from Croatia? When it comes to books, then the Book Libraries Act has become rarites or have a status of protection somewhere since the 1860s, but that border needs to be promoted as long as possible. I am not convinced that everything should be defined by law, but recommendations should be made that not only institutions especially public institutions would be concerned not to export these cultural goods, but also individuals should know how to behave. On the other hand, we have this decision here to be welcomed to accept these e-registrations as meaning as an electronic means, a credible means, but the question arises why only these e-authories, which, which are subject to conditions, can operate in that communication as credible, authentic material or a statement if all the electronic documents available to the State have the same status and value. Obviously, it's not the problem here at the ministry, but the problem is how the state administration works, where one other law should say that all electronic documents are especially that we have the Law on Electronic Correction and enough to be dealt with, that they can be used in the way that paper documents are done. In that sense, I think that one generic law or one law in the state administration should simply address this issue and say that all electronic documents are as valuable as paper documents in the entire state administration. On the other hand, about this law-making policy, and this is if I haven't been wrong about the 14th Amendment of the Law since '99. in the last 3 or 4 years, the amendments shall be made in the light of, primarily, Directives or provisions of the EU and of the Council. It would be good for us in that sea of these amendments to accept one principled position which the Assembly has already adopted if I am not mistaken, that each third, at least every third amendment of the law goes to the Assembly and is published in the National Journal as a consolidated text, which will not only in relation to this law, but also in all other laws facilitate the application of these laws and easier enforcement of both lawyers and users and all those to whom this law is intended. On the other hand, we have one problem, the minister here spoke about this information system of culture where all cultural goods would be registered, and today we do not have a review and an insight which, which all databases, databases, registers or information systems exist in the state administration. First of all, we use it more or less as synonyms according to it are not necessarily synonyms, we don't have a review, we don't have insight and then we don't have this synergy that the use of all of these systems could have, and we might also have in this area when we talk about protecting and using cultural goods. Therefore, in that sense, I would say this is not the issue of this law, it is simply other laws or regulation of relations in, the functioning of the state administration to achieve the cumulative effects of information, effective state administration, less red tape and more satisfied users. I say, the goal should be to support these amendments and the additions of this law, they are useful. We must also be aware that these amendments and additions will be in the future due to technological changes, legal frameworks, etc., but it would be necessary to also take care of the planning of this adoption of these laws and synergies if it is guided by some of the elements which I mentioned here, if taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202681	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the clubs, next is counterpart Goran Beus in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague, Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, good day and good to see you at the Croatian Parliament. According to the number of publications in the National Journal, the 12th amendment to the law was made and published in 1999. The country and people who are happy to point out their rich cultural heritage, their rich national history, the people who, firstly speaking about their identity, speak about rich heritage and history, are expected to think about this heritage of the power of cultural goods that they do and care about and that quality, that they care about it. However, the very fact that we have a law that's been updated 12 times says that we haven't really answered all the questions that need to be known and be absolutely clear with that, not one country that holds to its cultural treasures, to its heritage and cultural goods. Even these changes aimed at several places in the law have shown a very lax and very bad debate. The public call that was made has received only a few reflections, mostly by those who are amaterically dealing with detecting possible metals underground in areas declared protected by archaeological findings, and that's where we stopped. And there are several whole series of issues that need to be addressed by a new, whole, quality, proactive law, and we will only bring it in if the state decides this is important, and this is not important. I'm going to start by saying that we've had great expectations from the Ministry of Culture in this term, and I'm asking one question, what has the Ministry of Culture done in the last four years, and my answer is one big nothing. There have been several announcements from different sectors, but when we add everything together and subtract, Madam Minister, you have nothing to brag about in this term, and even by improving this policy on preserving cultural goods. Your ministry is rapidly reducing the share of the budget when it comes to protection, and now, in these exceptional circumstances, practically pressures to abolish the monumental rent and this will be further reduced. So the fundamental question is, do we have a law that guarantees quality protection, restoration and preservation, but also the availability of cultural goods? What is our public policy and effects in this important matter? I think that's a clear answer, bad, we don't have a policy, we don't have an effective legal framework that will preserve cultural goods from failure or, on the other hand, make it possible to step up research and then also to present and popularize. Three questions from this law that have not been touched, which have remained in the air as completely unclear, and I don't see why it hasn't joined, and let's just say, the intrusion into ownership rights. On the one hand, we have one very, very rudimentary form of behaviour towards owners, and on the other hand we allow some of them to do whatever they want to do to bring them to destruction, and that is, let's say, this issue of declaring cultural good. As you can see in this law, this is not being delivered as a solution to landowners under egid that who knows how many there are and can't get to them, but is merely being published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. Well, courtesy would require that an attempt be made to reach them, intervening units of local self-government or any other way to try first to get to the owner to show them that they cannot have their own ownership as others, and if it is not possible to deliver that it is only then going to publish through the website of the local self-government and the Ministry of Culture units. The other thing is, what's the contact zone? In this law, we have found no solution to how the contact zone is defined, and that leaves room for manipulation, so if you want to abuse or not to determine the contact zone, then it blocks any work on the cultural good. The third question is this famous separation of archaeological soil from land particles, and everything under egid as if making it easier to reach and build. What exactly does that mean? That's what's causing the big problems. It also remains unclear why the applicant rejected a very constructive proposal to include all plans or programmes for cultural goods and publications in the unique register of cultural goods. No, the promoter rejects it and says let it be published by the local self-government unit in whose area it is. Why? Is it not logical if we have a unique register that every monument is placed in every cultural well-being as well as a program of availability. Here, take a look at the ministers in the light of the rejected proposals in the debate, and you'll see. What bothers us to have all these programs in a unique register and to publish on the website of the Ministry of Culture? The question is how we protect cultural good, it's hard to answer from our perspective. We think we're doing it great, we think we have a rich heritage, a strong number of protected zones, a large number of cultural monuments, and given our economic possibilities, we do it fantastically, and in nature a huge part of it fails. If we put ourselves in other shoes to see how others do it, let's say the Czech Republic. What did the Czech Republic do with its cultural heritage, say, when it comes to castles, houses and objects of such a type? Amazingly, every castle in the Czech Republic is placed in function, cultural, economical any. But the Czech Republic didn't allow a huge number of objects of this type to fail. What does it look like with us? Here's the frisky thing I saw with my eyes, the fate of Villa “Wagner” in Samobor in the city center, over 1,500 square squares of the top cultural monument and the category has completely collapsed on the state's eye. For your information, Madam Minister, the central roof beam of the Vagner Villa has collapsed and the facility is completely destroyed now. Around it are 8,000 square square squares of the top arboretum that has completely grown in chicarum. So if we want to build a highway, we're going to rule out every owner on that track, but if we want to save the monument of culture, then we're going to set the conditions, but on that plan we're not going to do anything at all. Isn't it better if the state has a proactive view of its own cultural heritage that monuments of such a type are expropriated if their owners actually lead to destruction? The second thing, the fate of the kurija in Kurilovac once a self-inhabited settlement, today the city's district of Velika Gorica Kurilovec is named after these curiosities, which were reportedly seven, no more than one, no more. Here, while Ivan Šuker and I were alive, we watched with our eyes the rent of the Jelačić family and the Kurija Josipovic family. They're both leveled to the ground, no more leads. As a curija Josipovic was decomposed in 2011, but the building was destroyed. Interestingly, in the Turopoly wooden heritage, the construction heritage, we preserve practically and exclusively chapels of which only one of the many chapels was until two years ago in a permanent drive as a place of maintenance of the Eucharist. It's Barbara, it's St. Barbara's in Mlaki. And now that a new parish church has been built, the chapel is out of everyday function. In other chapels, sometimes something is held here and there, but only the church has fought to successfully preserve and reconstruct, rebuild and protect, everything else has failed more or less. The only case is Kurija Modric-Bedekovic, 20. the recovery took place. See what Kurija Alapić looks like in Vukovina. So we're getting away with the ownership problems, that the owners aren't doing anything, the state has no clear view of what they're going to do in cases where the nominal owner of the cultural good refers to this good as a pest, as a destroyer. But I'll be back when we need to build some kind of object for public purposes like that. Then we'll get all that out of the highway. It's not good, and we're not happy with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202683	Thank you. Next is colleague Glasnović, just a second please, a second, a second. Here is a colleague, Glasnović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202684	Dear colleagues, colleagues and ministers, it is a terrible damage in Zagreb, everything, is a cultural monument. I've been walking around Zagreb, I've seen the damage. I wish you best to do a good job in synergy with all these other institutions. Now he'd go on the subject of culture, of general culture. Culture is primarily business. Home is made, it's business. Whatever you're saying to me, no. Today when there's a crisis, I'd say, there's a saying that says this. Shakespeare or bread. You have, you're an artist, you're an actor, you're selling a product, that's the world today, that's the world. That's what it's all about. If you can't get from, from, from the government, from the ministry, then lobby somewhere else for funding, it's also possible. So they lived in the Middle Ages, in fact those who made Gothic cathedrals during the Renaissance, the masters had their own, this, the patrons who gave them the means to do masterpieces. What's that look like today? How you spend tax money today because you should know that our people today spend money on cultural ventures. Here, we have an example of the European Capital of Culture, what we've seen, that's what we care about. What were we looking at up there? We watched an iconography from the last century, a failed experiment. Partizan balej, etc., it is good, let the red baron do it, Mr Obersnel, but not with money from Croatian tax collectors. And now it's time to sober up because now it's been what I am, which I know from the open sources of information, it's time for a review in Rijeka. And that this company, this river twenty twenty has now clouded 13 million kunas somewhere, so much for cultural transparency. How much has this been going on over the past few years, and how much has that money drained a performer? Totally, I would say to the useless and socially and artistic kind of standard art procedures. If the goal of art is to inspire, to impregnate people, what do we get? They paid for some performances, for example. The Croatian tax collector was one in Split recently easy vomiting or rolling, rolling, cutting razor blades, naked woman rolling by, according to this, by canvas, what did we get? We got this RH, we got Dalibor Matanić, Mr. Shuker we got Dalibor Matanić, a movie character where a woman in general with a pig, we got a fling where a priest rapes an honorary sister and others, Siniši Labrović, a performer, who paid for it, it's unfortunate that they paid taxpayers. While Europe has Greka, Pushkin and other Karavaža, Rebrandta, we have these crawdy Antonio Lauer who is walking naked Ilicom, put his dick in the shaft and he is an alpha and omega performer in the Republic of Croatia. And who pays for it? Ha, even dumber is the one who thinks it's art. It's a nontalented product that they sell without principle to fools, so much for recasters. What is it, I'd say returning the archives from Belgrade, cultural funds. This was mentioned today by Assembly MP Misic. Not only the funds of art but the funds, let's say, archives because social sciences are part of culture, of course, but the entire archive of Croatians from World War II is in Belgrade and we are being beaten today by the heads of the South-Communists and their fifth column here, the great Serbian imperialism, that's the fifth column of Serbian here, and they're holding you down as hostages of their past and who's left behind the return of that archive? Individuals, like Blanki Matkovic, Roman Veljak, Vukic, etc., while the state would, I think, almost live in some kind of restoration of South-Communism, that's my impression and other people, not just me. Now let's go to these cultural workers, are tourist guides culturally these cultural workers? Yeah. If someone heard and saw what was going on around Zagreb here with some of these heads I wondered if you were studying history, how long was their course. When I hear them that Balkan English "People must trust us" English, when they talk about Croatian history, I faint. I've studied history, I haven't finished, but I know some basic things. I know this saying, I know this saying, "If you're going to study history, first study historians," who's scrawny in the tourist community, you guides. That's scary. Costume, costume, say, opera Zrinski's costume, the last play was, I don't know, a year, two, wearing the same costumes as 30 years ago. I think the moths ate them, it's also a fear that we need to get out of Rome to come here legionaries like they looked during Krista loricas vegentatum, plyum, gladiatorius, shield, and we have some heads, iron gussles, dress folk costume, and there's white socks down there. It's a shame what he's doing about costumery culture. Historical units, etc., we have you in every town of historical units. I don't know how much money they get from the Ministry of Culture. I will not talk about censorship and of course there is total censorship in Croatia, most on television, Croatian television can do it, now I will prove it to you in the next 15 seconds. Because we see when you're looking at the Black White World there, what's that other newspaper, who's directing those movies, who's the producer who's writing those scripts, I'm going back to the same one again, this point that it looks like those are the heads that are lamentating that they've lamentated in the '90s. years for the fall of the former South and they've put everyone back on the cultural scene. Such is the one, say Angelko, Angelo Milardovic, this Belgrade school passerby there the University of Belgrade of Police Sciences, and today he mentions partisans, Ustashas, and why these people do it because they hide their biographys, it's not partisans, Ustashas, it's not, then I mentioned it twice here, it's a question of smoke curtains and concealing these cultural workers and others in the media area that hide their roots and grief and appeal for this failed experiment. When it comes to censorship, here's a little bit, if there's any peasants here, there's no HSS, let's talk about, let's talk about, let's do a little bit about, uh, whether social sciences are Mrs. Ossued, Mrs. Osuélen, whether social sciences are part of this culture, history, that I think they are. E Missys Overweared my, your, your grandmother knew her rest of her soul, lived 103 years, I hope that, 110, I hope that she wrote the book. And look now. Here, yesterday the ladies and gentlemen in the assembly was, there was an anniversary that we didn't know anything about until the '90s. In the year, it was the first village riot in cold Europe, in fact in a cold, war Europe in 1950, when the JNA that some heads mourn here, when she sent tanks to peasants in the Casin region, was shot by 20, 30 peasants, and 100 were sentenced there to social social work, imagine mines, etc. That, nothing was known about it, but today there is no one from the peasants, I am very interested in whether Mr. Orepic and these other HSSs are celebrating there today, they were marking this rural rebellion because they are the real peasants, representatives of the peasant party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202685	A fellow Glasnović can only get a little back on the subject, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202686	Please, I'm coming back, it's a culture that, social, history culture, there we have agreed that history is part of culture, cultural. And we're going back here now this very soon we're going to celebrate the entry of the typhoids into Zagreb in '45. A year. And now we see that the red Emperor Obersnel spends millions of kunas up on the restoration of the Seagull. Okay, well, that's the same part of our history, we love, we don't love. The bloody locksmith is part of our history. But at the same time, I would suggest a small Ministry of Culture to put a monument down here at the Kanal camp, the Kanal camp near the bus station where the old Zagreb families who were killed to enter their apartments and today, artists in the center of Zagreb live in those apartments, many of them, may well know better about it by former Mr. Josipovic, who lives in other people's apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202687	Okay. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Sasa Djujic, SDP representative club. Here you go, colleague Djujic, just a minute, please. Thank you, miss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives' Club will support these amendments to the law and we do not have any objections to the law itself. What we want to point out is that since this is the 14th change since the adoption of this law itself we have expected, and perhaps we think that the time is at the end of the term of this we think it's important to say, we think it's important to say that maybe we should make a whole law from the beginning that would then be a little sewn up and cover essentially all the problems we're facing. You yourself told the ministers in your opening statement that you were essentially preparing these changes, and then these things that were inserted into us, which is this pandemic and earthquake in the City of Zagreb, and then it's included in these changes. What we want to point out again is this monumental rent, so it was introduced at the time of the SDP government and we think that now, it's not, okay, there were some changes, it doesn't matter, but we think that around the monumental rent in these changes would now be regulated in the essence of a postponement of the charge during the pandemic, but we think maybe we should do now after some time and review itself and, itself, that decision itself has, it's well imagined and it's somewhere well functioning, but somewhere completely it doesn't make sense. Here, I can say the example of the city where I come from, where we have, for example. The main promenade, the main street through the city, where the left side of the street is an old core, the right side of the street is not and we have cafes both on the left and right where then and some entrepreneurial spaces, where she on the left side of the street the same activity pays the monumental rent, on the right does not pay. Because in nature it was like that, but it's not how I see the monumental rent, it's not the point. The point is, say, Dubrovnik or some, some cultural places people will come to just because it's a specific cultural place and then whoever has a catering facility or a shop there has an extra benefit because it works better because it's located in the cultural core area. But in many of our cities in Croatia, it is not. So they don't have some who have to pay a monumental rent extra profit out of it, because of their position because it's just that they don't. For example. Here's the town of Crikvenica, Mr. Schucker's flying there, so he knows, they don't have any specific old core, so they're, uh... We meet often at sea as a rule. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Uh, they've declared hotels, for example. Hotel Kaštel is there, monumental, monumental, monumental, cultural in essence and then Adriatic hotels, Crikvenica, for this hotel they have to pay themselves enormous fees of monumental rents. So, one should be audited maybe by cities and municipalities how it works in practice, so here, this pandemic, everyone says, has often opened our eyes to many of the problems some have been talking about for years, but no one solves them, and here I don't think about labeling anyone, so in general, no government solves, so maybe even on monumental rent, we should do a review in practice of what it means and maybe where it should be, where it shouldn't be. And where extra profits are being made, then there's paying some kind of monumental rent, but then again, that money goes back to rebuilding those cultural monuments. Because we also have situations where people are in some culturally well-known objects, paying a monumental rent, for example. They don't have facades on that facility, so the city reroutes those funds to other monuments. So on this, we want to appeal, draw attention to the fact that maybe a little review, analysis, and maybe some new solutions should be made. The same thing is, for example, about this earthquake in Zagreb when we see that it is the narrowest center of the city of Zagreb, which I think is the entire area, regardless of the categorization of certain objects, so it is all one protected cultural good. When rebuilding, you have to keep a tight account, let's say, if we see that these buildings are old, like, very, very old, let's say, let's say by some kind of building sauces, their building permits are expired, let's say that they have, the building permits have some kind of deadline, although, normally, no one is doing that analysis, but there needs to be special attention, to see that it is both quality and that it can endure in the future, don't God, some new phenomena like this, but also some other environments that can affect it. But on the other hand, we're sad because here, there isn't, we're practically on the verge of breaking up, as far as we're looking at the media. During the week or two, and we still don't have the law on the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, which was announced here by this government and by the CNS, because if we had seen this law, then we might be able to compromise this law in this context, given that these two things are closely connected and the protection of cultural heritage will certainly play a role in the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb. So, here, let me do it again. The whole narrow center of Zagreb which is the most injured is one great cultural heritage and all the buildings are practically monuments and when we see this old building, here, every day we pass here when we come to this High House, and besides, this building has been badly injured. She died a lot in the earthquake. Many facilities that are also state, city, county, museums, etc., which the state will rebuild. But we also have private buildings in the narrow center that have suffered terribly and whose reconstruction will be expensive again, and perhaps more expensive precisely because they are monuments of culture and because they are some protected objects than if, he did not know, in New Zagreb, an object was injured. And they didn't get killed there mostly because there's modern construction. Therefore, everything should be taken into account, and therefore we expected that before the end of the term of office of this Government, we would get a law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb, which was announced by the CNS, so that we could make a comparison there and make some suggestions and contributions. Now, you've opened up some possibilities with these changes, that cities and municipalities can act there, but we don't think that's enough and that's not enough. And these technical things now, these are actually technical regulation that future amateurs researchers have to report and regulate devices, such as magnets and these things, well, that's one technical question that should be regulated and there are no objections, but these two things are crucial to us, so re-auditing the monumental rent on which to place an emphasis in the future and rebuilding of the city of Zagreb. Here, and that's what we're drawing attention to, but we don't have any concrete laws, and that's why we're going to support it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202689	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Next is counterpart Ivica Misic in front of the Labour Party's club of representatives and solidarity and independent representatives. Here's a colleague of Misic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202690	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Protection of cultural monuments in Croatia, I hope it goes in a good direction. Looking and acting in Vukovar in this war as far as we've destroyed our monuments, we know for ourselves, a lot has been restored. Of course, with Croatian money, it wasn't renewed by those people who did it. Looking at the capital of culture in Rijeka, what is happening there, we saw for ourselves that a five-pointer was being undermined to offend the Croatian people. I don't think that was right, although you yourself said it was a cultural expression of certain persons, although I think it's a little bit of morale playing towards the Croatian people. We had in Rijeka the same artist brljić who wanted to embarrass everything that is Croatian and so is the priest, unfortunately and such cultural people from... culture, should be sanctioned and not allowed to be, to perform publicly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we get all the archives from Belgrade, the one they took from us, the one they passed on, you said they were one particular part, and we know there's plenty left in Belgrade. How long does it take for them to remember and as honest people to bring back what is ours? I live in Vinkovci where Vinkovci are one of the oldest settlements in Europe. That's where two emperors were born, Roman, we have a certain part of the culture, the truth, in the war was damaged. Something happened, I remember well the Orthodox church that was torn down, which I said was wrong. However, the Croatian people have restored and made their money Croatian and I think it is good and it is culturally good for Serbs to be respected. But, gentlemen, do they respect us? That's the question. Remember the culture of Croats in BiH, we must remember, many fortifications in BiH unfortunately, the Croats did not even know that the Croats built it, such as the fort in Srebrenica where a Dubrovnik law was signed, one known, which I did not know, where I lived not far from there, fortification in Travnik, fortification in Jajco, fortification in Ljubusko and many forts in BiH, for which Croats and in Croatia do not know. I remember a historian, an archaeologist who said, I doctored history and archaeology, but I am not in doctoral knowledge, in fact no one has ever told me about these forts or should have, but I have sought out how important this is for BiH and Croatian culture. How long it takes for us Croatians to do things in this country in a normal way, Croatians, as I should, all the culture and all the peoples who live here, to respect them, should certainly be restored and should be helped to stay. However, the Croatian culture they tried to destroy in this war, we know for ourselves how this was happening, I don't know if the Croatian people will have the strength, whether the courts will condemn the great Serbian aggression, which destroyed the entire Vukovar, which, we must thank the Croatian people who restored Vukovar and many cultural monuments is over. Here, today we also experienced an earthquake in Zagreb. At worst, we can freely say that the earthquake in Zagreb has damaged many cultural sights. The cathedral itself and all other buildings that have been since the time of Austria-Hungarian 1800 and some years, which are really nice, will take a long time, I see that the opposition today wants to say that nothing is done, so we will charge both the mayor and the prime minister and everything else. We know it's a process, it's not one building, it's thousands of buildings, and if we're driving around Zagreb and looking at it, we see every day that it's working and that some bricks are being taken out of the buildings, that some things are coming down, I think it's okay because this is one process, of course, the mass of people left without their property, and here we as a Croatian state and a Croatian people have a good sentimentality and we want to help, I hope that the law will end up to these choices so that these people need to find some kind of solutions. They're painful, they're heavy, they're slow, but here, the opposition I see takes advantage of that opportunity to blacken out everything around them and say that they would do it as something faster and better to solve it. Of course that's not possible. But if we remembered and we had to remind you, if this president had thrown you out of Pantskack, our last President Tudjman and all, so it's a cultural good that every guest of his would probably like to see and visit, and I'm asking you a question to everyone, once we've passed the law that no one can move that culture and that sort of thing. This president has his weird behavior, we know the beginning of his what it looked like because he didn't want to make an inauguration here in front of the Church of St. Mark and that's one piece of culture. This should be put into culture, that here, in this square, every president of the Croatian state, as it was, during Tudjman and others, he changed it all from which, because nothing is written anywhere, because I didn't write anything, they didn't make any commitment to anyone. It's a shame. If we look at the world, look at the English, the French, the Germans, they have it as a cultural people and respect all their cultural historical heritage. Whoever comes for the president or any function can change whatever they want. So I ask you, you're in culture, you have to ask the Parliament and the president that we have to protect some things, that I can't throw myself out like that, that I can't do some things, that I can't do things at my own free will. Let us remember here how people were lined up, how it was President Tudjman who returned Croatia to his time, where the Croats admired these units today, and that is the Croatian cultural good. So I'm asking you, Minister, who you are now and I don't know who will be after you elections to put it into law to protect these cultural events, that no one can put it away that can't be done with their own hands, unfortunately this just shows how messy we are society and what laws we have that everyone can change them the way it suits him. So, deal with it, and I'll tell you one more thing, don't let every artist be able to underestimate the Croatian people however he likes. You know what insults the five-pointer to enter Vukovar, killed and destroyed that part, and this same one, Cvianovic, is expressed in Rijeka as a cultural good. He could've put on a monument and he could've put on a werewolf water tower and boasted about it. As well as this Frljić, who shames a Croatian culture, shames the Croats, of course knows why he is doing it, so do not let anyone insult the feelings of Croats as it has been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202691	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, a colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here is counterpart Batinić, he is also the last to debate on behalf of the club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202692	Thank you, Vice President. I'm afraid we won't be able to expect anything much, much more, and too bad. Croatia is rich in cultural heritage, Croatia has a long history, but unfortunately, yes, and of course, in the vast majority, it depends on us sitting here as much as we will provide some more money for what is called culture. This Law protects and preserves cultural goods has no reason to criticise anything in particular, we can look back at previous periods and individually talk about any case or situation that he has experienced, experienced or had through his working life, regardless of what level, local, regional, national, extract or some experience, some conclusions, however, it all comes down to the fact that unfortunately I will repeat for the culture too little money. Of course, I can't blame you primarily for the least of you, nor the previous ministers as if they weren't up-to-date, but the fact is that, given this new situation and the coronary virus, unfortunately this earthquake that happened in Zagreb, when we look at all the measures that the government has taken to save the economy, I'm afraid that there will be even less money in the rebalance of the budget in culture. Of course, that's one reality, but I think it's one reality that we're going to have to pay more attention to in the future. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to mention in part of my debate some experience from local level, because I have positive and less positive experiences myself, I'm not going to say negative, in general, about the protection of cultural goods. Of course, every environment has some cultural good that it wants to preserve for history, for future generations, and there it would like to be in that part of protection itself, but also attitudes, opinions to be a little stricter after all. I like Article 17 in the event of exceptional circumstances in order to protect cultural goods by order to determine the taking of special measures, by order. In fact, one experience of a culturally good archaeological find, the country is privately owned, of course we have to respect the Constitution, respect property, but those who have prescribed certain measures to deal with this cultural good, I am a liberal and speak to one liberal party, so we are not in the word command, okay, it doesn't suit us very much, but in certain situations it should be much more concrete to prescribe certain measures and actions although it is done according to private property. There I would pray that although this law is not regulated in amendments and additions now, it is precisely in the future for the sake of its own protection. There are certain restrictions, I understand that certain people need to be depreciated for which it has reduced the value of its property, but I would also like to respect all the positive regulations that those who, conservatives specifically in this case, prescribe certain measures, to be resolute and concrete, may not be an order because it associates with something, but that these measures are far more stringent. Now, when I mentioned this article, it means one part of the changes and the addition goes on the trail of extraordinary circumstances mainly as regards the cultural goods of this damage suffered by the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County, part of Krapina-Zagorje County, you added two paragraphs here in Article 17. It means that, in the event of the creation and the declaration of circumstances, the Ministry of Culture is carrying out a list of damages in cooperation with local self-government units, and also in the article, you are prescribing in Article 18 of the Cultural Good Management Plan, which I think is more than positive, and in a further article, it is prescribed that it must be ensured, that financial resources must also be provided in the old law, which is not the subject of these amendments, and again we return to the finances themselves. Where local self-government, and procedures, conservation, measures that are prescribed is a matter of fiscal capacity, so I dare say those much more financial strengths whose budgets are more generous, provide sufficient resources to protect cultural goods. There would be, there was what I was saying in the introduction that for culture never enough money and there would certainly want, and I believe that in the future it will be possible to provide some kind of state, national means, to try to use as much European money as possible and, of course, always have eyes against that body that is responsible for it, it is the Ministry of Culture. Now, in that same article, Article 17 for the purpose of mitigation, removal, paragraph 4, the Minister of Culture will develop and adopt a programme of protection and reconstruction measures. Well, I'm asking the question of the minister of cultural goods, and we're in the phase, at the government is the adoption of laws on the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, the surrounding area, the neighbouring counties, whether there is a certain conflict with the basic law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb, which will be with the restoration of cultural goods in the city of Zagreb. Although the law had not yet seen the light of the day formally, I had the opportunity to listen to the minister, contact and see that there was a certain overlap. Well, I'd just like your answer to that question because we're aware that something that's fundamental law and there's lex specialis. He would not want there to be any further dilemmas, a misunderstanding about what it is before, although on the legal side it is formally well known. So I would like you to suggest perhaps, I understand that in this article 17 you generally represent the opinion that this refers to all cultural goods independently of geographical location, but I would like to determine whether this renewal applies in order not to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb which is at the stage of adoption in the Government. On April 22nd, the law was agreed, today on May 6th it is still not. And I think your ministry has had certain objections, and the citizens of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area are waiting for this law to see the light of day as soon as possible. Well, here's the minister, I wouldn't be long and the time is running out, and I'd like to see if I can get an answer to this question because we're preparing a certain amendment just for the reason that we're preventing it if, in order not to overlap to express myself with a simple, simple dictionary between those two laws that I don't think is of interest, it's primarily not the government's interest, it's not the interest of those who are going to be in this situation because a lot of citizens are living in these buildings, so here I'm asking you to try to give me an answer to this question, and if we're going to go with a certain amendment, I'd like to put it together and correct it eventually if there's been a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202693	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. First up, Irena Vuksanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202694	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers with a colleague, so we've already heard in previous discussions that are the taste of this bill. I would bring this down to 3 most fundamental facts, so the first is to comply with the Construction Act, which was necessary and necessary, the second is to amend this law, which is primarily related to the elemental disasters, the present elemental disaster that we have all witnessed, which is an earthquake and possibly some future ones, and hopefully there will be no floods, earthquakes or anything that belongs to that category and the third alignment with one European Parliament regulation and the Council of 2019. It's a taste of this law and most articles actually regulate these three things. And we know, it's a common known thing that if someone's house or building in which they live is protected culturally or is located within a zone called the cultural and historical unit, so before some construction works start, it's always necessary to get permission from the Ministry of Culture and then there's a whole procedure or regulation about how it works, it's generally known. And now this bill further regulates such situations. Of course, the earthquake in Zagreb has accelerated the need to amend this law, and we can only say now that this bill, among other things, introduces the special protection measures that it can, and mentioned earlier, in a previous debate by a fellow minister, a special decision, a special order as it writes, and that is the issue of how it has been arranged so far, and the answer is that so far it has not been arranged and that is why it is necessary to regulate it with this article. I would say that those who followed all this how it worked around the elemental accident, the earthquake that struck the citizens, all of us citizens of Zagreb that with the reaction of the Ministry of Culture we can be satisfied. Because it was timely and good, and it is primarily tied to buildings that are therefore protected cultural monuments. I know that it was the first meeting on 22 March and it was a meeting to define some things, and we know that the City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature Monuments is responsible for reporting damage in the City of Zagreb, and that the Ministry of Culture and the City Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of the City of Zagreb will form operational teams. I think that the 27th April was a decision on the implementation of the list and the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, and now it is a question that we are all interested in and it would be good for the Minister to do so in his own if he wants the final presentation to say at what stage it is in general, these operational teams that were to be formed between the Ministry of Culture and the competent City Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. That would be good to hear because everything in Zagreb is interested and I think and wider so it is not only Zagreb that covers but also the county. It is also one of the questions, the conservation profession so far has not been able to fulfil its obligations in short term, these deadlines were usually longer. Does this mean that according to these articles that I don't list, it's going to be easier now? I think he will, but it would be good to hear more explanation. And there are some who have said that so far no plan has been adopted on the recovery of buildings, and then I ask that you also deny it in your final address because as far as I'm concerned, it's been passed by what I saw on the pages of the Ministry of Culture, but it would be good to hear it again if that information is incorrect. It is important to point out that the City Office or the Institute for the Protection of Monuments cannot act alone here, nor should it, nor can that the reaction of the Ministry of Culture which was a legitimate has actually shown that synergy between the local and regional authorities and the state should function in this case when the citizens of Zagreb have been affected by this elemental accident, the earthquake. The consequences are long-term, they will be difficult to resolve, and we are all aware that it will last, but the synergy here of all involved is very important, of course, with financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202695	Thank you. We have two replicas. A colleague of Leakovic and a colleague of Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of your debate, you spoke of the synergy of local and state authorities. Of course, it does not exist as there is no synergy between the coalition partners of HDZ, HNS and Party 365 Milan Bandic, and the victims of all this will actually be citizens and citizens of the City of Zagreb, not only those living in protected buildings, monuments of culture, but everyone else. And that's why I asked the minister, and she will probably answer that in her final address, as you said yourself, what are the priorities of the Ministry of Culture when it comes to the restoration of the earthquake of damaged objects in the City of Zagreb. And I ask you to deny me, so I think that this is a stretch between coalition partners in relation to the provisions of the law relating to the recovery of the consequences of the earthquake in Zagreb, in fact, which will do the most damage to citizens and citizens of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202697	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202698	I made it clear to my colleague Leakovic that I believe that the reaction of the Ministry of Culture, specifically here when it comes to the elemental accident, the earthquake that struck Zagreb was adequate and valid. Neither can the city hall alone, nor should I see that synergy myself. The other things you mentioned in your replica are not the subject of this. So here I see synergy and I think the ministry's reaction was appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202699	Thank you. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202700	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Petriyevchanin, I've come forward for a simple reason, and you've basically returned this debate on the subject of the law. And perhaps this bill today was an exceptional opportunity for parliamentary representatives to show sensitivity to how the pandemic hit the culture and events in culture and those who create it, and also to show sensitivity to the cultural goods of the Croatian capital and cultural goods of all Croatians and Croatian citizens who died in the City of Zagreb, and I think our debate should have gone that way. And that perhaps someone from their life experiences from some other things could have ministers only with their debate today to help make this law as high as possible, so it's good that you and your debate have returned to what is the point of things, but apparently the elections are close so many today wanted to suck which voice because it is probably far more important than the one that is the problem of the City of Zagreb and what is the problem of culture after the pandemic is actually in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202701	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202702	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shucker. I believe that populism has brought nothing good in this assembly and, in general, in society, I think that we should stick to the metrics and that if we always stick to the metrics and be professional that it will be better for the citizens of the Republic, and then to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202703	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202704	Thank you very much. Here are the distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens I see here 27 articles of amendments, I noticed here what I did not notice during the debate i.e. I noticed, but I was focused on a number of questions that I asked on behalf of the club, but the fact is that by this law Article 13 and.../incomprehensible/... amendments in Article 61b. It would change the respected ministers that simple structures within a cultural good coverage, within a cultural historical unit, could be set up without a building permit. So one thing, it would be good to say that, you're saying that inside the cultural good is enough basic, main project. Which means this law is exactly what you're aiming at, what the teleoperators intend to set up, wherever the base stations fall to, of course I'm going to give them the amendment, and this is what I'm talking about, what looks like the Kliška Fortress on Klis, the antenna pillars that are going down historically when we defend ourselves against the attack of the Turks at the time, that's what you're going to do on the Sinj Fortress, that's what you put on the Siben Fortress, the antenna pillars, and in cultural historical good, which is why those simple teleopers wouldn't pay for the construction permit. Instead of acting in law and doing things as they do in other countries, and you adapt everything to teleoperators 4G, 5G, 7G, let them just behave as they behave in countries, teleoperators, where teleopers come from and invest in infrastructure as much as they invest. Of course, I'm going to give an amendment because by this law, you're doing damage to the cultural well-being of course, to culturally well-fitting teleopers, of course, of course, that I'm not going to simplify and connect the brothers and sisters here right now, the one who should control the law, because brothers and sisters will not determine that teleopers are suitable because brothers would have to be controlled, teleopers would behave in their network activities like in other countries, and that the law is being broken down in a way that, in order to enable simple structures to be placed in cultural, historically, well-involved cities, in fortresses, on the most significant cultural goods, they're setting base stations. No, you won't. Try and get through this law so they can set up their base stations' teleopers with our children's windows. It is not only visible in Zagreb, this is what you are legalizing. Instead of protecting cultural well-being from these pests, as other countries protect from where these teleoperators come from their cultural well-moving, you thus allow them to be placed in church bell towers that are culturally old, to be on the fortresses, on the houses, by the windows of our people. Oh, he can't. That's not gonna be allowed. And this fellow Shuker is not an apprenticeship of any political point but a favor to your sponsors in campaigns. Allowing this law to simple structures within the cultural historical goods, within, can be set without a building permit, that a sufficient main project is exclusively and only the guessing of teleopers that should be controlled by the brothers and proposed by the law of the sec. That's not gonna work. And that won't work. You won't get away with it, Minister. I will give colleagues and fellow amendments to this proposal that necessarily for base stations must be building permits, and in historical and cultural, yes, yes, read the article, read it out loud, all read it, is it in simple structures when the building permit for base stations has been lifted and you are only doing it to legalize the current base stations that are in the historical cultural area and cultural goods, and in this way you continue to allow teleopers to devast our cultural well-being And they're jeopardizing the health of our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202705	Thank you. I didn't see any replicas on your exposure, so, so we're continuing the individual debate. Next up, she's a colleague of Love Maximchuk's. Here you go, my fellow Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202706	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, cultural goods in general, certainly represents one of the most valuable resources of the Republic of Croatia. Their protection and preservation also means preserving our identity. It's supposed to look at them like They should be seen as an integral part of national identity, as a valuable heritage and heritage, but also as an economic resource in terms of tourist offer. [[My colleagues, my colleague's story, please, thank you.]] Unfortunately, we often put cultural goods into focus only in times of threat as we could see during the recent earthquake in Zagreb. In particular, Croatian and European public have also hit images of the destruction of cultural goods, the issue of their restoration, and the question of how to prevent such events in the future. According to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods of the Republic of Croatia, cultural goods and all preventive protected goods are good national treasures, and can be mobile and immovable things, from artistic, historical, archaeological and scientific meaning. Archaeological sites, archaeological zones, landscapes, parts that testify to the human presence may be cultural goods that include immovable and mobile material objects under the protection of UNESCO or cultural goods in accordance with an international committee called the Blue Shield. The properties of cultural goods based on professional time are determined by the Ministry of Culture by a solution it can make without prior declaration by the owner and holder of the right to cultural goods. The register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia is a public book of cultural goods, run by the Ministry of Culture and consists of 3 lists, 3 lists, lists of protected cultural goods, lists of cultural goods of national significance and lists of preventively protected goods. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and provides a statement of its compliance with the EU acquis. I would just like to point out that this law brings into line with the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Regulation in the section relating to the establishment of specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods and regulates communication between all competent authorities by electronic means through the application of the electronic e-authority programme, which ensures rapid and effective treatment at no cost to the parties. The conduct of the Ministry of Culture of the units of local or regional self-government in the event of the occurrence or declaration of exceptional circumstances shall be regulated. In these times of crisis, it is necessary to find a balance between investment, preservation and restoration of cultural goods, but also how to facilitate business, both for the units of local, local and regional self-government and for our entrepreneurs and for the sake of this previously read and spoken, I support and welcome the adoption of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202707	Thank you, we have one replica, colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202708	Thank you very much. Comrade Maksimčuk, in your debate, and the debate of Irena's colleagues before you, twice, you mentioned the earthquake in Zagreb three times and a good reaction and the rapid reaction of the ministry and the amendments to the law in order to better coordinate things here and I must warn you, it is amazing for me that HDZ representatives even mention it since the state has done nothing to this day regarding the recovery of the earthquake in Zagreb, I mean to the citizens, nothing, not a single kuna. The law is not mentioned at all, and at this point it seems that it will not be at all, means that it is more important for Prime Minister Plenkovic to call the elections as soon as possible, disband parliament than to pass a law that would ensure that people are compensated for the damage and help them restore their apartments, houses and buildings. So, that is, I ask you not to mention the earthquake at all because of what a shame it is that this government has treated the City of Zagreb and the Zagreb and the Zagrebs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202709	Thank you. Here's an answer to my colleague's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202710	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I said that unfortunately, cultural goods are being placed in the focus of this kind of disaster, and the government, of course, together with the Minister of Culture or the Ministry of Culture, has been acting and reacting. Of course, as far as possible, the government has made and done, it has set up all those who have lost their homes, paying for their accommodation in flowery, so that no one is a magician and no one can do or restore overnight what unfortunately the unfortunate earthquake has destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202711	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next up is a colleague of Steve Culey's. My colleague Steve Culey is missing, according to an article. 233. He's losing his right to discuss this point. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Karolina Leakovic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Minister with an associate. First, I'm going to disappoint my colleague Shucker, I'm not going to listen to his instructions, so I'm only talking about what he thinks we should talk about in the context of this debate on culture, but I'm going to look back at the work of the Ministry of Culture under the crown of crisis and of course the earthquake. As I have already said this morning, I am pleased that the Minister of Culture is in the assembly today so that I hope that in his final address then, with the clarification of some of the provisions of this bill, it may also refer to what its ministry has or has not taken in the past two months since we have been affected by this crisis. We are also known for the government's proposal, but the opposition has also sent a whole series of different measures of law, conclusions and proposals, and we have passed a line of law that makes life and action easier under these circumstances. In all of this, in my opinion, but not only mine, but in the opinion of all those who are involved in culture, who are following the art scene, who are following the media, there was a chronic lack of actually a measure in the field of culture and the media for which the Ministry of Culture is responsible. It is, here with today's law and with a bill which is not necessarily, therefore, tied to the crown, something with an earthquake, of course, suggested only one law, which is the one about the monumental rent that we had already voted in March. I ask the Minister to say why this is the case and why in two months, the ministry did not actually propose a single set of measures to save the cultural and media sectors. You're even announcing, saying how to analyze, how to collect data, how to talk to different stakeholders, I listened carefully, as you follow me, so I'm following you, so what you're saying. However, it seems to me that artists and media workers, cultural workers, have actually decided to take care of themselves because of the restoring ministry, neither of you have, unfortunately, been able to actually hear what they should have heard. So, culture ministers, ma'am. Dressed Koržinek, you said in your public statements that all cultural workers and all journalists, for example, can also apply to HZZ measures, which is not quite true. So, they can't apply to HZZ measures, all of them, and they can't use the measures that you are as the Ministry of Culture, it's a special measure that you only have, which is, therefore, paying for part of the independent artists, the one misery of 1.625.00 and 3.250,00 respectively, it's not really meant for all the independent artists, but only for those to whom the state pays contributions, so especially the merited, all the rest of them alone, as well as of course freelancers, fees, those working on contracts, are actually rotting, and the question is that they will actually survive this period of the crown crisis that we know will not end with the mandate of this government that will end in good time but will continue in the fall. Of course, I believe that a special defeat as well as you as ministers, the Ministry of Culture, but also local communities, is a hitchhiking of proposals, a hitch to the European Capital of Culture project in Rijeka. I hope that you will find a way for this unique project to actually continue because the Republic of Croatia was in a special position when it also chaired the council and hosted or hosted the European Capital of Culture to take a certain step that I hope we haven't seen much about. In the meantime, the government has allowed religious rituals through the headquarters. However, there was no way to open the cinema, to organise concerts to even discuss how the activities of the theatre will take place in the future. I ask you to say something about it today in the final address, too, because I think it interests everyone involved in the art production as well as those who are naturally interested in so-called. The cultural product ate like that. And finally, since I don't have enough time, when it comes to journalists, the government will, of course, attend a secret meeting where you've been calling the editors-in-chiefs of some media, but has not yet come up with specific measures for workers and workers, for journalists and journalists. There are some old old competitions whose results you have just now published, but I am curious whether you are really going to do something that will make the lives, actions and work of journalists useful throughout the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202713	We have one replica, here's my colleague Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202714	You have rightly warned your colleague Leakovic that the ministry has not actively advocated resolving the crisis's corona for the status of cultural and media workers, even moreover I would underline the introductions and has introduced one criterion that is amazing, which is that in culture success is measured by financial income. Well, those hundreds and hundreds of cultural workers whose cultural institutions have successfully and fairly done their jobs in the past year, so they haven't paid their debts, couldn't apply to a higher canvas class, but they got much, much less, even though they did their job. You know well that some theatres owe 10 million kunas to outside associates, it's mostly artists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202715	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202716	I thank my colleague Beus. I can see that you, like me, but many other colleagues and colleagues who are interested in this topic, especially those who live on art and culture, or for art and culture, are very much following exactly what the ministry is doing or not doing, so you have warned of this kind of market principle that the ministry has introduced. So those who had more, who made more money will get more than the ministry, and those who didn't, so let them figure it out. So, as far as I'm concerned with the market principle when it comes to culture and art, there is no room or he should not be primary, and I call once again and you have rightly warned that almost nothing has been done, so I call on the minister to show by the end of her term in the next few weeks, in fact, that she has imagined the functioning of culture and media in the coronary crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202717	Thank you. Proposer's intervention, Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202718	Honorable MPs. I'll take my word for it now because I'm going to talk to you later on about the earthquake, to answer what you've said, and what the GLAS agent said this morning, so what the president of the GLAS said this morning. First, I'd like to brief you before you say things that just don't stand, please contact the Ministry of Culture. This morning it's said that I'm invisible, I think we do a lot of work and we bring to the media what we do. We may not be visible in some scandals or ATMs or other things, but I'm proud of that. And what did we do? Already in the first session of the government when we were taking measures we formed a crisis fund, I made a decision that all the funding of the programme, which is more than 70 million approved for the culture sector, could be spent regardless of whether something was cancelled or cancelled, only that was made by the Ministry of Culture is not any other unit of local self-government. We have included all cultural self-employed workers, including art organisations to the extent of HZZ, we have brought a complementary measure for artists to whom the state pays contributions that are allowed to be paid. I have to deny what's being said in public to measure artists by how much they earn, notorious untruth. It is that the measure was introduced to help those who had incomes, and no longer have them, who had wages, and no longer have them. It would not be necessary at this time to provide support for those who have earned less than 1.625 kuna in the whole last year because the criterion was that you must prove that you do not have activity because of the covid. However, I remind 70 at this time already 80 million kunas of the Culture Ministry's programme funds are available to all those who do not enter these censorships, which are free-lancers, fees, on their own with the ministry's recommendation to pay them off. We started talks with all the events that have approved funds, they will not be able to realise international roaming, we have a plan that they all hire Croatian artists as soon as the work continues. We are preparing a competition for online culture from the European Social Fund, the question is very soon going to be called, so it is an ad hoc competition. We are preparing an ad hoc competition for entrepreneurship in culture that will be intended for cultural activities to new normal because it also brings certain costs. In addition, we have brought a series of measures concerning the media, many media can participate in the HZZ measure, the Council of Electronic Media has opened a tender for quality journalism based on funds approved by the Ministry of Culture, preparing a crisis fund for journalists, we have established, you will see when the budget of the crisis fund comes within the Ministry of Culture, which will cover both journalists and artists additionally. And I finally have to look back at this thing that's been in public for a very long time now, for a few days now, compared to theaters and Masses. Maybe someone's never been to mass or been to the theater, I don't get into it, but I've said it many times, we have to think about the health of the audience, but also about the health of artists. While there is a measure of social distance, unfortunately not only in Croatia but in all European countries show me one in which theatres are opened, you cannot enable the health and safety of artists. On the eve of the release, the Ministry of Culture prepared detailed instructions for the start of attempts at smaller events, minor events. You can see that concerts are already happening out in the open. In a day or two, we will have a recommendation safely by the end of this week in the first round of experiments of smaller formats, smaller performances. Everything is published on the website of the Ministry of Culture, all those who want to be informed, and then on the basis of the information to comment on it, I suggest that they first inform themselves of what we have done and what we have communicated, and then, of course, any recommendation for a better treatment. In the end about how much our government takes care of culture, we're from 0.47 to 1% of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202719	Thank you. We have five replicas for your intervention. He's his first colleague, Beus, after him, a colleague of Maras. Here's your colleague, Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202720	Your Honor, Madam Minister. I'm not going to comment on everything you said out of good taste, and this doctoring so that we can get information. Well, it's in your best interest for us to stay stupid and uninformed, but don't exactly move from that position. What you last said is the bottom of the bottom. So no one asked the Ministry of Culture to advocate opening a full-powered theatre and in full repertoires, but to prescribe reasonable measures for all cultural institutions to continue to work on. Well, no one's a healthy head who's going to put an orchestra in a hole for the orchestra, but there are monodramas, there's something called misanscan if you haven't heard, it solves the question so-called. social contact or social distance. Let those who are experts do these things, and you'll bet Capak doesn't keep us locked up cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202721	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202722	Thank you, Mr. Representative. On the website of the Ministry of Culture, I think on April 27th or 29th, you have a statement saying that all these steps you are talking about are prepared, so the Ministry of Culture.hr and since this is a phased discount, you will see the announcement of what you will see in terms of the recommendation within a few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202723	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Maras, followed by counterpart Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202724	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you're obviously confused, you're not a minister, you're a minister and you're a culture. And now I ask you a simple question, explain to us now you're talking about artists, theatres, plays, etc. Why can't I do movies that don't have living artists but have a screen projection that certainly has better ventilation and better decorated space than the sacral objects do? Why could they not start working, and why did you not act and ask for it to be done? So I'm going to tell you one more time, you're not a minister in this case, you're a culture minister and you're obliged to provide for both entrepreneurs and people who are engaged in culture that can work under these conditions, but with us it's a priority to open the first church and only then for a long, long time after that everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202725	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202726	Thank you, Mr. Representative. China in the open will be able to work relatively quickly. I would refer you to a global debate at the moment that you have already touched the cinema production and the situation in which the complete global production has been stopped, so Hollywood and European and all others, and the consideration of associations, global cinema distributor associations, which will happen when they open the cinema, have no new films, will have all their costs. So, the cinema show has its own economy and I'm telling you, they wrote serious magazines, serious press releases about it. So, the cinema will open very quickly, the simplex will open very quickly, but read a little bit of this debate is really interesting when you refer to the cinema, and I refer to the cinema distributor associations with which we are also in contact and we follow all their needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202727	Thank you. Next is counterpart Leakovic, followed by colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202728	Today, the Minister keeps telling us, so he keeps telling us to go to the Ministry of Culture and then he says that the website is the Ministry of Culture, but now it doesn't matter, so the doctoring on your part is enough in HS, please don't do it, you haven't done it so far I haven't noticed in your political career that you were as hurt as you are today, because someone is trying to point out problems in your sector. And what you did especially in your intervention repeats is the word we prepare, prepare, prepare, will be recommended, will be opened, will be seen, followed in a few days, so it's all futur, all that's yet to happen, not what's already happened. And life didn't stop, so workers and cultural workers didn't stop living in any way, but I'm afraid many of them might stop or that they're not allowed to live from culture and art and that's your job. It's not your job to keep telling us that we're reading something, that we look at the pages of the Ministry of Culture, that we're getting information, etc., so it's below your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202729	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202730	Your Honor, Madam Representative. If you felt the doctoring, I sincerely apologize, it wasn't my intention. I might want to point out a little more temperament that we've done a lot of things, we've made a decision, we've formed a crisis fund, the first payments have been paid, so we've done it all. And what we're going to do is an ad hoc invitation to adapt to a new normal, on line, competition for on-line culture that is from ISF, so it takes a little time to prepare documentation for summer festivals that will be possible and about...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202731	Please don't, don't, please don't, please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202732	...there has been a statement since yesterday, maximum engagement of just those Croatian artists and you have yesterday's announcement about it, some media and transferred it, maximum engagement of Croatian artists as soon as they can start working, they don't need charity and support, the audience is waiting for them, it's up to us to create the conditions that they can start working.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202733	Thank you. Here is my colleague Bulj, next is your replica, and after you are fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202734	Thank you very much. Minister, please explain to me. 13 of these changes where you say they are. 61 b. changes for construction, for construction of simple and other buildings and works within cultural historical units or cultural goods do not trim building permits, but that they are sufficient meanings based on the main project. When we know that the base stations have broken into the removal of building permits into simple buildings, that 90% in Zagreb alone have base stations that are illegally installed even without this, do you legalize these plants and intend to continue to set up base stations where teleopers do not behave as in their own countries where they come from. The simple question is, what is your intention of this law is this article not to protect culturally well but to please teleopers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202735	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202736	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this law does not regulate what it is necessary for which no building permit is required, it is governed by the Construction Act. So, if you have a question about whether a simple building permit or not is needed for a simple building permit, it's the Construction Act, we're just sorting out what the conservative conditions need, and now I'm going to take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity if you just leave again, the hour has come, the hour is gone, the question about this building in Sinj has been answered in 2018, and now I've been informed, unfortunately 2019, the city council has refused to put protection. There's a decision by the City Council of Sinj that your city council refuses to protect its citizens, and you're protecting me here for two years. You're asking what I've done. So, in 2018, we answered you, and in 2019, I think you're sitting in that city council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202737	My colleague Bulj has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202738	The honor has me, the hour is gone, but the fact is that the Honorable Chairman you've hurt the article here is whether she's telling me when the tribune be, when I'm not the tribune no matter what I'm the most active parliamentary representative and no matter what you're hitting teleopers, what you're hitting teleopers with with help is, of course, a line so-called. Brother sister, sister, who would try to control those base stations, and you'll only legalize it. You won't. I'll give you the amendment. And this transfer now to some city council that you should do and you don't care, you don't care, you don't care, you don't care, you don't care about the city or anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202739	Thank you, thank you. So, you hurt, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a warning. First because you didn't even say which article was injured, and secondly, none of the chairmans have any powers to warn the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State. No, there isn't. [[Blowback from the bench: There, there]] We're moving on, colleague Djujic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202740	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ma'am. Minister, in this intervention, you mentioned a crisis fund for journalists, then you said another sentence in the ministry, we're setting up a crisis fund for, I wrote it down, for a crisis fund within the Ministry of Artists and Journalists, then you repeated it again in these replicas. Now look, I don't think it's normal for you to mention a crisis fund to the press within two months of the election. Let me get this straight. Is it on the trail of that secret meeting of Prime Minister Plenkovic with certain editors of journalists where he has promised crisis funds that may then be financed by certain media that will then glorify some crisis headquarters two months before the elections. What do you think you're doing with that? You're practically a three or four-day technical minister. Is when we disband this tall home you have no longer under new normal, no old normal powers to finance any media, especially in the campaign. Let me get this straight. It's not a harmless thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202741	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202742	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I've said several times over the last three and a half years that I don't think the Ministry of Culture should be financed by journalists, and that's why I'm glad that in the Ministry of Culture in our government, unlike the government that your party made, they don't share funds for the media or for journalists. That's what you were doing. So, we talked to the Journalist Union, I referred because Agent Leakovic talked about it in her public appearances, and we agreed that the funds provided for this purpose would be distributed through the Council for Electronic Media, which is an independent body, and the criteria for free journalists not covered by this will help them develop the Union of Journalists and Croatian Reporting Society. I haven't been in three and a half years, and it's not safe for the last months of my term to reach out to the press, it's what you've been doing during your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202743	Thank you. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202744	He's been injured. 239, Vice President. You who chair should warn the minister. Here, now really this doctoring that he's been doing, so I mean this and your government have been dealing with, you've had the Fimi Media doing this for you, it wasn't supposed to work, but the Fimi Media has been buying journalists, agencies and your party volunteers, so come on, talk about it, it's what your party did. As a result, you have also been in court today and in front of the Croatian judiciary as HDZ for the corruption of the Fimi Media affair, which was then bought by editors who built the character and work of your beloved leader, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202745	Thank you. Thank you. I also give you a reminder. Please. [[Clip intrusion: Thank you]] We continue with an individual debate, colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202746	Thank you very much. Here, at the beginning of the debate, I'll just look back at one of the corny things the minister said, says she doesn't know what's going to play in the movies in the closed, but that's why the open cinema is going to work like crazy, where she's going to play special movies probably of this eternal character so I don't say the headlines no, this one here, but I think it's bizarre in itself and it's fair for the minister to do her own resolutely, and not to watch how to satisfy certain circles that first made sure to show and demonstrate who was most important in Croatia and to open their premises, and the citizens and entrepreneurs are waiting for their order in the way that they unfortunately are still waiting at this moment. But what's most embarrassing of all is that Madam Minister boasted in this law that he was brought in part for the cause of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. And I am convinced me the fragrants and the Zagreb girls and the Zagrebans are also in the faith that the earthquake is no longer spoken at all. So Prime Minister Plenkovic didn't mention the earthquake from the day after the earthquake 23.2. So now for almost 2 months, Prime Minister Plenkovic hasn't told us about the earthquake, this story about the November home is Mrs. Minister if we knew maybe 1/10 people who, or maybe less than 1/20 people, 5% of people who are basically without a roof over their heads and who are not in their homes, and HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't talk about it at all. HNS and Bandic are struggling over the law, and unfortunately our government does not send a simple message to Croatian citizens or citizens of the City of Zagreb that they will stand behind them and that it will allow them to resuscitate their homes, that it will help them not be 5% as the law now defined it in the event of disaster but rather be more. The SDP's proposal is that the state subsidise 50% and the city 30%, and owners 20% of the structural, structural, structural security facility, and those collapsed houses as well. One more thing the minister doesn't talk about at all, which is the entertainment industry if you want, music and concerts, evenata, which she also asked the minister to do something the other day, to lay down clear rules to allow people out in the open under certain conditions to do their own concerts, concerts. At this point there are no infected at all in the large, at least half of the county that I have seen now that data arrive and it is amazing that the messages of gatherings limited under certain conditions, under a certain open space are not enabled, and the summer is coming, or summer is already at the door and these events are, it is possible to plan them at a minimum risk, I do not believe that there is much greater risk than in some closed space where 100 or 200 people would gather, so if 500 people in the open space would probably be much lower than what is in this first case. And on that side, it's amazing that there's no reaction at all, that these people are left to themselves, and even more because of what we're listening to every day, so yesterday we heard Mr. Bozinovic say that if the second wave of the epidemic comes, it's probably not going to repeat these measures as they were, for the first time. And now the question is whether he unconsciously acknowledged the manipulation that HDZ is doing by rushing around this whole disbanding and election story in order to capitalise certain things that he thinks he alone deserves, but when we look at the results from neighbouring countries, there's no big difference. For example, in the area of former Eastern Europe, for example, Slovakia has 4 times fewer deaths than the Republic of Croatia, Greece has the same, and 2.5 times as much, so it's saddened that Mr Bozinovic is trying and HDZ is trying to speed up all of this and it's only important to hold elections, not to get back to normal, not to allow people to work and yet with a message that in the autumn, if there is a second wave of epidemic that there will be no such measures, this further enlarges what I was talking about here earlier. And because I come from Zagreb, it is a disgrace for HDZ to hold the Bandic stand, to cover Bandic. As a member of the HDZ, Ms. Minister obviously supports Bandić and his contribution to the culture of the City of Zagreb, which everyone sees is and does not speak at all about the recovery of Zagreb, the rehabilitation of cultural facilities in the City of Zagreb and the possibility of people starting to work again. That's more important than that, Madam Secretary. You're gonna have to do a much bigger part than you had. I agree with my colleague Leakovic, you are almost undetectable, artists People who work in culture feel [[Intruder: Thank you.]] left behind because in the end you didn't do much for them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202747	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have two replicas, counterpart Djujic and colleague Leakovic. Here's my colleague, Djujic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202748	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of the debate, you referred to this movie in the open and closed, but you did not listen well to the minister. She said you need to better monitor the global debate. So, he's in a global debate when there's no new movies, and then what are people going to watch. In fact, there's going to be some kind of problem here. Well, since we are often praised by this government that we are the best in the world and in the fight against panemia, our experts are the best ones at headquarters, etc., here I suggest that on this issue maybe this government includes and I don't know the leadership of HRT, let's say there's no film under 10 years old, so maybe they get involved in this global debate, and that's the same thing in this minister's portfolio to simply take over this cinematographer model of HRT management, so let's show them the movies that I think we'll only get to 2005 in line, so maybe this is the way, to show that we're the best in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202749	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202750	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djujic, may have been invited here by the Minister to tell us something about this huge success of "General" for which we paid tens of millions of kuna. So, instead of the shifts responsible for the HRT or through their board of directors and people in the board of directors put the responsibility of those who threw our taxpayers' money into the wind because it is open to say a catastrophic film here, that I do not use the term that the President of the Parliament uses in this High House because it makes me uncomfortable when he talks to Grumoji, it is disastrous or, for example, to warn people from HRT that when he insults Jandrokovic, then the same day in "Dnevnik" declares five times longer than what was an insult or alleged insult, and when an opposition representative convinces himself in the HRT programme he must write 10 days in line with HRT his deficits and eventually barely publish it. So on this side, the Minister has a lot of work to do on HRT, but this is really her leadership of no use from the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202751	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Since a colleague has three replicas and can no longer replicate, Sasa Djujic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202752	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm going to be in this individual debate too briefly, although on behalf of the club I've said a lot about this law, so I don't have some on my own, not some, but no objections, I think it's more or less okay. I will repeat once again that given that these are already the 14th amendments to this law, I think it was necessary during this period, and perhaps in the future, to approach the making of a whole new law where all these things would then be much better regulated. But once again I want to put emphasis on the individual debate, it is this reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, and I think it is very much in the emphasis given that the whole narrow center is, I will once again practically repeat one cultural whole and cultural good of all of Croatia, the whole of Croatia not only of the city of Zagreb is extremely important in this restoration, the role of the Ministry of Culture, the role of your restaurant. On the other hand, it is not pregnant because we know that the renovations are still done by the builders and I must say that I expected that we will have a debate in this House about the restoration of the city of Zagreb, which was announced by Minister Štromar. We see that there's nothing out of it, we see that in a week, two of us will disband HS at the latest, and it's obvious that this law in this House of Commons won't be seen. On the other hand, for a month and a half since the earthquake, we still see the consequences of yesterday in Zagreb. So nothing on this matter can be solved the way it should be. Not that we haven't brought our lives back to normal, not that there's no new normal, there's no old normal, so you have to circle around the center of Zagreb today because you don't know what moment you're going to run into some kind of crane, the whole center is practically blocked. We expect some kind of solution from this government that is greatly announcing that it will solve all the maltenes it has no problem that this government cannot solve, let's say for a month and a half on the recovery of the earthquake in Zagreb and returning to normal, let alone in the new normal there is nothing. So people still don't live in the center, they're displaced, not to say that robbers show up breaking into people's apartments. How does the government regulate, do we have authority in this country? So, after a month of their broken apartment being visited, people come to see what happened to their apartment, and then they realize they're even robbed. Who's guarding the property of the citizens? What's that headquarters doing, what's the government doing about it? So don't do anything, at this point the government is doing nothing but calculating when there will be elections and how to force which term in these elections, which mandate more. But in the end, it will be paid by the citizens. So that's a clear word and you need to know. So, I expected a synergy of the legal solutions of the Ministry of Construction of the Law on the Restitution of the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Culture with its legal proposals and resolving citizens' problems, and this should be urgent. So, people can't wait for the second wave that comes in the 9th month, here's Mr. Capak saying we don't know anything about the virus yet, he's a total stranger, but what we certainly know, we know that the second wave is coming in at the 9th month. Citizens can't wait for another wave outside their homes, and they can't live in the center because you haven't given the Law of Resuscitation of the City of Zagreb since the earthquake, there isn't, I can't go back to my houses. In a week, the government becomes a technical government, there are no new laws, no new solutions, so people will stay out of their homes. And then what happens? The second wave comes, people come second wave at the 9th month, so they say epidemiologists, waist, we have to trust them. So the second wave comes and will last for 6 months, 6 months will last, from 9 to 1 month 2021, according to experts, profession. And who's allowed to question that? And until then, citizens' problems need to be solved. Who will bring these people back to their homes when that long-lasting Capak wave comes, who? That's a clear word. So, you need to stop fooling around with the government, and you need to start dealing with citizens' problems and get Croatia back to normal, to start with something normal, and then talk about your electoral slogans, about the new normal, new, old, old, give people back to normal so that they can live in their homes, not that they can spend a month and a half after the earthquake hanging out around the city of Zagreb and that they don't even know what it is with their property that some other people rob them while you're doing election calculations to get into the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202753	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Branko Bacic's. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate. Mr. Tudjman has already supported this law on behalf of the club. I will direct my individual debate to a single amendment that I will submit to this law. The amendment shall apply to Art. 7th of this law in relation to Art. 49th existing law. Namely, the original law, the basic law was passed in 1999 and then it is in art. In 49 C.E., as stated in the article, archaeological excavations and research related to the sea, the seabed, and the seabed were made possible. And in that sense, these underwater activities are allowed in inland seawater and the territorial sea. As the basis of the Maritime Code of the Inland Sea and the Territorial Sea implies a column of the sea, as well as an underground seabed, this law has enabled all archaeologists in Croatia where cultural good research and excavations are done in internal sea waters, inland waters and territorial seas. In the meantime, we in Croatia declared a protected eco-fishing belt, which was done in the meantime, but was not a protected eco-fishing belt included in this law and archaeologists could not do research beyond the borders of the territorial sea and up to half of the Adriatic, where the border between the protected ecological-fishing belt and the sea of the Republic of Italy. Now that we are changing this law, and since here is the game of the case, we are changing this article that defines the sea spaces of the Republic of Croatia in which archaeological research is carried out, I have proposed that from now on, after the adoption of this law, all archaeologists who in Croatia are investigating archaeological sites in the maritime areas of the Republic of Croatia can do so in a protected ecological-fishing belt. However, as opposed to inland seawater and the territorial seas, a protected ecological-fishing belt is only a column of the sea from the bottom to the surface of the intervention and this amendment, I had to write that these studies relate both to the epicontinental and the protected ecological-fish. In this way, I would like to confirm to all those suspected Tomes in Croatia who have and are saying that the protected ecological-fishing belt is strange and in this way I want to confirm that the protected ecological-fishing belt which is the basis of the 2004 Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia and the basis of the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea is declared, Croatia has all sovereign rights and as such has been notified in the Assembly of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea in New York and is in force. And the Republic of Croatia has all those definitions of the economic belt, which are the basis of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, except for the two, which is the exploitation of the energy of the sea in the protected ecological and fisheries belt and, by the way, Croatia is told at this time, and a few countries, have no technological opportunity to exploit the energy of the sea and the construction of artificial islands, which is also very difficult in view of the depths that are located, above which there is a protected ecological and fisheries belt not even possible. Therefore, all those essential components of the protected ecological and fishing band, primarily the Croatian Fisheries Fund, are clearly managed by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. The fact is that as a member of the EU we are all our own, all EU Member States are considered a common EU sea and this is where EU fisheries, fisheries policies are implemented. Therefore, I urge that this amendment be accepted, it is very important, therefore, in this sense and in this sense, archaeological research will extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to a protected eco-fishing band and in this context this amendment to Article 7 and paragraph 1 of that article is complemented in a way that, indeed, all archaeologists in Croatia who deal with maritime research They can also explore in a protected eco-fishing belt in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202755	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Now we finally have 3 applications, the first colleague Bulj, followed by colleagues Batinić and colleagues Maras on behalf of clubs. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202756	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that this is if my colleague Bačić to exclude the economic belt if we had brought here in the assembly we would not have the tribals to discuss this at all because ZERP is the same as if you bought a car without a car, without a steering wheel, so ZERP is what is not protected our cultural good on the seashore, we know that well. He was proposed here by counterpart Bačić to the exclusive economic belt as a strategic national interest, full of application of the exclusive economic belt, you did not accept it so that everything you are saying is still me and asked the question of some of our other treasures and good, culturally well used in the Adriatic Sea subsea without control because not accepting an exclusive economic belt is not a full application. That's what we've been making this proposal, and now this proposal is in the process, and we have unlimited amounts of cultural goods from the submarine being driven to who knows where and who knows where. And that's what I asked the Minister if she had information, how alienated our good from our Adriatic submarine, I didn't get an answer. Of course, when we didn't accept the exclusive economic belt and we didn't take ours, our rights under international law under the '82 convention. the years of the UN, and the Council of Europe has invited us to do so. However, we are much better off, it is much better for Andrej Plenkovic to have a good relationship with Tajania who knows what he was saying that Dalmatia is Italian, that Istria is Italian, and fascist, but, statements, but to Andrej Plenkovic and this Government is much more, a colleague of Bačić and a respected minister, a much more important relationship with such a man than to declare the full application of the exclusive economic belt. It's about that part, I was talking about it at one point in my debate on behalf of the club, and now I'm going to mention again what the Minister said that the City Council of Sinj refused or did not refuse only to refuse on Vrcan's... this catastrophic facility that threatens the health, the safety of our people, it collapses. And you're all consenting ministers, so from city council level to conservative department mayor, building inspection to bring it down, but no one's destroying it. Do you understand what the problem is with how the system works? And another very important thing that is here. 61st, i.e. Article 2 13th amendments, but in Art. Law 61.b is also amended as follows: “for the construction of simple and other buildings and works within a cultural and historical unit on individual cultural goods as well as in the area within the borders of cultural goods which are based on the main project, which according to the regulation does not require the establishment of a building permit”, i.e. that is, in fact, where it is desirable, I have given the amendment, that base stations can be set up without a building permit on cultural goods, in the area of cultural goods, and that they are now legalised in fact by this law of an illegally established base station in the Republic of Croatia. I think, Minister, and I ask you to respond to this proposal to amend the article. 3., but in the law of Art. 61.b where you are essentially legalizing illegally placed base stations on cultural goods. Here on Kliška Fortress you have a huge antenna pillar with base stations, terriblely, on the bells of churches, in the center of cities on cultural goods, that's not what teleopers do in countries where they come from. But this government is obviously connected well with teleopers, so I said, and I'm going to do it again, brother controls, and the sister gives the laws here to teleopers behave any way they want. Now, that won't go away, that's my obligation and right to say, it's an eclectic conflict of interest this law that allows illegal base stations to be placed in cultural goods in the centre of Zagreb, so you can go and see who doesn't have a useful license where teleopers have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia because of what they do whatever they want. They don't do it in Germany, they don't do it in Austria, they don't do it in Sweden, but in Croatia they can. That's why they have twice as much profit in the Republic of Croatia because they don't need a building permit. And this double-dog bro-sec wants to push through, so I gave my colleagues and colleagues the amendment that you needed a building permit on the cultural good together with... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202757	Thank you. I would like a little intervention, and then a colleague, Milorad Batinić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202758	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate. Namely, in the original of the law. 76. "The Minister of Culture may order special protection measures to be taken in the event of the occurrence or declaration of exceptional circumstances in order to protect cultural goods." Now it's an article. 17th amending Art. In 76, it speaks a little bit more about St. 1. It means that the initiative is precisely for a change, for the addition of this article. In 76, he caused an earthquake in the city of Zagreb, and it would be less or less controversial, except for St. 4. which is controversial to us in the part where the Ministry of Culture in this part of the law, so we read it, I wish that we were wrong, assumes the responsibility, or assumes the authority, the authority of another ministry, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the basis of the Construction Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and other laws that define construction, reconstruction and reconstruction. Now, we're going to make an amendment in a way to delete the word "and refurbishment" in section 4, because it's acceptable and it's complemented, and the reason is the earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area. And it wouldn't be that much or less controversial, it would go under the radar, even though it went under the radar, I don't know in what way, in a strange way, the Ministry of Construction and how that word of restoration was found in this text of the law at all. In fact, if it hadn't been for the earthquake, we wouldn't have changed the law in that part. And I wouldn't want the Renovation Act is fully ready to agree on government coordination, today unfortunately it still hasn't worked out, today is still a slow day, and at the end of last week according to the information that I received online, it was more or less agreed, that this week your ministry and another ministry would have something controversial in the bill. We are investing this amendment for reasons because we believe that the Ministry of Culture, in addition to all the problems it is dealing with, does not need any more procedures and reconstruction processes. There is a much more teamed-up ministry for this, more specialised in that section regarding the legislation it covers. That's one reason. The second reason is the interest of the HNS, the interest of the citizens of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area that the Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb comes as soon as possible to these benches, to discuss and to finally start rebuilding. That's the main reason we're making the amendment. At this point we have no arguments unless you consider our amendment or agree to the coordination, this other law at this point we do not have enough arguments that we can support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202759	And we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you were the first to report, please, then colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202760	I'm the first one to mean it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202761	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so you're the first one, so colleague Maras is all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202762	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Batinić is... Art. 238. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In his presentation on the final name of the club, Mr Batinić disagreed with this bill and that part of the law we are discussing is taking over from the Ministry of Construction, and on the other hand he protestes and rightly protestes what the Law on Reconstruction for all citizens of the City of Zagreb is not in the process, but he spends taxpayers' money. Why didn't they solve it at the government? They're part of a coalition partner here, or HDZ doesn't need them anymore, so let's get it over with, let's call the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202763	Thank you. Okay, slow down, you're getting notices of course because you've abused the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202764	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Batinić spoke off topic and mentioned a whole new moment that we didn't know about here, which is that HDZ hitched the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb. So that's right here, colleague Batinic, who was part of the ruling majority telling Croatian citizens that HDZ had stepped down the law through the Minister of Culture, the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, and that is the information people need to hear and worry about him. However, he's likely to threaten to leave the government now, so here's the HDZ coming to itself very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202765	Thank you. Thank you. So, you according to the article. I give a warning in 239. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202766	Okay, I'm ready and I get a warning from you. Namely, I can't allow it, Art. He was injured in 238. A colleague of Maras creates and puts some words in my mouth that I didn't say. I think I was very concise, but what my colleague Maras is saying is I didn't say it, maybe I said it one way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202767	Okay. You have also abused the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article. I'm giving you a warning in 239. Continuing, SDP Representatives' Club final, colleague Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202768	I felt the need to finally report after these scandalous statements by counterpart Batinic, which I warn the public. Even now, in his injury to the Rules of Procedure, he confirmed essentially that he said in his own right that HDZ had stopped the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb. So, two months after the earthquake, HDZ stopped the Law on the Reconstruction of the Law and doesn't want to help tens of thousands of our citizens, but keeps Bandic's back, their most loyal coalition partner whose HDZ corruption enjoys, even the HNS is a small baby for him. HDZ enjoys the corruption of Milan Bandic and wants to enjoy it and therefore there is no law on the City of Zagreb and therefore the mayor of Bandic is still in his position. Here, tell your HDZ colleagues, does he have your support in the city hall? If not, the assembly has no majority, we go to the city hall elections, so let's see what the citizens of the City of Zagreb say. But no, HDZ wants to enjoy the corruption of Milan Bandic still. Plenkovic is afraid of the elections in Zagreb because he knows that the citizens of the City of Zagreb would punish what he does not want to pass the Earthquake and recovery law and because citizens themselves are restoring their facilities, spending their money, and the state is not behind them. So tell me, ma'am. Minister, here's one basic and simple piece of information. Do you know that Mayor Bandic has suspended funding for the cultural programme? ... Well, I won't say that to him. I'll say that to you who support him. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] He's your choice. He's your choice, ma'am. Minister. Your hands in the congregation are holding him. Your Prgomet HDZ is holding him. He's your friend. ... No, it's not mine, it's not my lady, you wouldn't be a minister, and you wouldn't be laughing so cute if he didn't have eight chips, 10 tokens in HS, you'd be in my election a long time ago. Minister. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Are you proud of what Bandic has chosen you as minister? Are you proud of what supports you? Tell me, come on out, I'm Mrs. Devereaux. Minister of Culture and I am proud because the corrupt mayor of the City of Zagreb has chosen me as Minister of Culture and you cannot escape from it, you can laugh as much as you want and what Bulj tells you about the brothers, it doesn't even matter. So that, with what I'm talking about right now, doesn't matter at all. You have been chosen by the corrupt hands of Milan Bandić and are unable to say here in HS that as culture minister you disagree with the decision of the Mayor of Zagreb who suspended all cultural programs in the City of Zagreb. You're not ashamed of yourself, ma'am. Minister? Which is why you don't say it, stand up. You are, you should be the authority in culture in the Republic of Croatia, but you listen to Bandic instead of listening to what you say and supporting him and it's not funny, ma'am. Minister. People don't think that's funny. It is a shame, it is a shame that HDZ continues to support Mayor Bandic and that Prime Minister Plenkovic is afraid to break up co-operation with Bandic, afraid to break co-operation with Bandic, because he knows that after the elections, he will be able to enjoy the corrupt support of Mayor Bandic and that nothing will change after the election in the City of Zagreb. The only chance to change something in the Republic of Croatia to remove Bandic and Plenkovic is the only chance because otherwise everything will remain the same. And these attempts by counterpart Batinic to warn, though at the end of the term, it is a swan song, unfortunately he had to think about it much earlier, now he was singing like a swan, but in two months he will no longer have the opportunity to sing here. So it is saddened that he did not say this before and what made it possible for HDZ and Bandic to destroy the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb for 2 years. It's sad and you should have reacted differently and you're probably sorry now, but unfortunately it's too late. So on the other hand, Madam Minister, fence yourself from Bandic, it will be much more effective for you than all of what you just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202769	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202770	My dear colleague, I appeal to Article 238, because you are misbehaving with Minister Koržinek Obuljen because in all possible ways you are trying to insult the executive authority and my party, which we cannot allow. The way you act, the members of your party, the president of your party, it's beyond any normal communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202771	Thank you. You've also abused the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning. And to the end of Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek. He's got 20 minutes on his behalf. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who have supported this law in the debate, whether they give us any suggestions on possible improvements or considerations on the whole of the law. In one part of your debate really referred to the text of this law, in one part it may have gone a little wider, but so it is. I would eventually like to refer to a few points that I think are important to say about them and these debates in the high home we attend, but also because of our citizens. First of all, as regards the government's conduct in the crisis situations that were at stake here, and I will specifically talk about the earthquake in Zagreb, given that we refer to it in part and in the proposed changes and additions. What leads us as Government in all our actions is responsibility, care for our citizens and their rights and the help we can give them. The interest is I am sure that here I am speaking on behalf of all of us, on behalf of all parties represented in the assembly, that, as far as the reconstruction process is concerned, all procedures can be launched as soon as possible, but they should be launched on their behalf by one part of the Government and I would say on behalf of the HDZ and on behalf of our coalition partners in the past month and a half, especially one number of resolutions do not stop working on it. So on the one hand, the assessment and the list of damages began with a project to produce documentation for both the EU and World Bank funds, which included primarily the Ministry of Construction, but also other resolution ministries, so hospitals and schools and other public-purpose buildings were also injured, so the government has created teams that are rapidly preparing documentation that will provide a prerequisite for the withdrawal of funds from which the reconstruction will be financed. The Ministry of Construction has also made the first framework assessment, made by the minister, by means of between EUR 3 billion and EUR 10 billion, so it is not something that can neither be realised in a month, nor there are those resources, it is clear to all, and this message should be sent, that the reconstruction of Zagreb will take a long time. What is the government's priority, and what we are now working on to help local self-government units that obviously have neither the strength nor the resources to actually do this renovation, especially the immediate recovery, are going to take place as soon as possible. I will note, therefore, that a question has been asked about what has been done by the Ministry of Culture, that I have brought orders on the list of damages on April 10th for fixed, April 27th for mobile, what is very important for our citizens, in agreement and coordination with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, we have brought guidelines for the restoration of chimneys, which is a priority topic for all citizens of the City of Zagreb, and these other topics concerning chimneys are not really topics for the government but for the local self-government unit. In any case, we work coordinatedly, we work responsibly, we work to ensure that, in this difficult situation, additional funding to help our citizens and, as in the Covid crisis, we put health and our citizens first, and in this earthquake crisis, we put citizens in the first place and reject any insinuation of any politicisation on this topic that is of crucial importance to citizens who have lost their homes or temporarily cannot enter them. Let me now go back to some of the topics that were presented in the debate. I'll take my turn. I won't tell you who I'm answering to. As far as the questions of the Law on construction and construction permits for simple buildings are concerned, it is not governed by this law, it is governed by the Construction Act. So, that law can be amended, we only regulate this law when it's a simple structure, which is the level of conservation documentation, when the building permit, which is the level of building documentation, etc., so it's not the subject of this law, nor can it be changed by this law whether or not it should be for some type of construction in the Republic of Croatia building permit. As far as questions are concerned, there have been several comments on the ISKB system, so the information system of cultural heritage, building permits, e-registration, I think that this law really does make these changes and supplement as small as possible, bring a serious step forward and that it will be seen by the conservation service's actions to speed up the procedures. I think that on behalf of the SDP Club, Djujic spoke several times about the need to pass a whole law, we are aware of it, this law has been in force for 20 years, it has been revolutionary at that point, we have to admit on the subject of monumental rents, there are a number of scientific articles in international magazines as a model that many countries have taken over, but through these changes indeed this institute and many others have changed, and certainly it is an ambition for us in the next term to bring the entire Cultural Heritage Act, we think it is time. There have also been changes in circumstances, many new funding opportunities have been opened through European funds and through other means, so I agree that this should be done. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be back shortly to unify all registers, e-Registers, etc. I'll just remind you that in this House, in our term of office, we've passed the law on archives, libraries, museums. So 3 laws plus these changes and additions that the SKB also regulates, the information system of cultural heritage. In fact, they allow for the first time that the complete system of cultural heritage in Croatia is adequately available and, then, I must mention that the ministry also implements a project of digitalisation of cultural heritage, 80 million kunas worth, which will match the data of all the storage and digitalisation systems of cultural heritage. I will also refer to the question of the GLAS Club that we have not done anything for cultural heritage, so I will mention, 3 laws, archives, museums, heritage system, launched European financing, created and SKB, I will not understand the observation that we would have done something wrong with those changes when you and I supported us here, when, after 100 years of unresolved catastra treatment, if the sub-urbi city, and at -1 archaeological site, we found a legal solution to start and manage these archaeological sites. We've started making management plans, I'm going to point out here, you say some in your discussions, we're invisible, we've brought the first time and the energy guidelines, for the energy restoration of cultural heritage, so today anyone who goes to restore cultural well-being can do it in a way that achieves energy savings. Here were the words about castles, houses, the conclusion of the government is mandatory ministry, it was made for the first time for the north of Croatia a complete catalogue with all conservative guidelines for castles and cuisines. The funds are insufficient and we know that they are not insufficient now or last year or before 10. Croatia is rich in cultural heritage. Without alternative means and sources of funding, whether they are the EU, monumental rents, some other models, participation of owners, it is illusory to expect that we will restore such a rich heritage at the speed we would all like. As far as the post-war renewal issue is concerned, as quickly as I could have answered in that one minute, I don't think it's really the time, but I would have directed everyone to look again, there are data on how much Croatia invested in the post-war reconstruction, there were only one of these projects. As far as this specific article is concerned about the natural disasters that my colleague Batinić was talking about, so I don't see any cohesion because when the whole law is passed, lex specialis for Zagreb, he will refer to Zagreb and he will derivate a whole series of procedures, procedures, etc. However, we do, when we arrange the handling of an elementary accident, for example, Tomorrow it can only happen, I mean a flood that will flood a castle or a church and it seemed to us that, since we have now done what we did in Zagreb and gave our hand to the city's office and helped to make sure that, as soon as possible, the damages are recorded, that in such a way that the extension of the scope of this law can actually determine the patterns of action for any elemental accident, hoping, of course, that such elemental disasters will be as little as possible, there may be an earthquake, there may be a fire, anything that destroys cultural good, or damages it to that extent, that emergency measures should be imposed and that recovery must be carried out. As far as I'm concerned, let's just see if I missed anything else. There was a question about both the articles and the conduct of the Ministry of Culture, I'll just confirm one more time. We formed, given that the City Hall has its capacities, which it has, humanely, we also pulled some conservatives from other parts of Croatia, we formed 15 teams at this time. They're speeding up the list of damages on cultural goods. I'll repeat, I expect that we will have this job done in mid-May for all individual cultural goods. The whole of Zagreb, a cultural and historical whole, you talked about, there are over 19,000 buildings, of course, not all individually protected cultural goods. 600 of them are individually protected, and the building of this High House and many buildings on Mark's Square, Gornji, Lower City, we have established a methodology of the list of damages, we have agreed with UNESCO and international organisations, we have also hired international consultants to assist us in this whole process of reconstruction. I would say in the end that with these amendments and additions to the laws in this part of our actions, we again want to send a message that the Government is there, that in crisis situations it reacts, that it is not a Parliament of the City of Zagreb, or the City Council of Sinj, which may at some point have been done in this debate, this is a parliament where we adopt laws and standards that will apply to all situations that can happen in the Republic of Croatia and I believe that in these months and a half of the earthquake we have shown that we are responsible for the citizens of the City of Zagreb and that we are not politicising situations that are not for politicisation and believe that the government is unique, and that is the key message that is related to the earthquake of our citizens we want to send. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202773	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202774	Ma'am. Minister, here you are and have completed your debate with this government is unique, the government is acting unitedly. You said what your ministry was doing on the earthquake, and you've been stressing all along in coordination with the Department of Civil Engineering doing this, doing what we're doing, we're unique, new, normal, etc. However, you did not answer our serious accusations. So, counterpart Batinic said that the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, which was prepared by the Ministry of Construction, led by his party colleague, so from the HNS portfolio, had passed the narrow cabinet of the Government and that the law was practically over and should be brought to HS, but that it was stalled by your ministry and these are serious accusations. So, if you didn't listen well, your colleague Batinić here on behalf of the HNS Club said that, basically, the HDZ through your ministry blocked the debate on this law in this high house and that is the issue of HS and the public, not the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb, or the City Council of Sinj, I ask you to answer us if it is true and has given your ministry stalled that law? Why isn't he in discussion at HS yet? Those are serious charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202775	Thank you very much. The reply of the Honorable Minister Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202776	Mr. Representative, that's not true at all. That's not true at all. So, the law is made and speeded up, and it's done. We are all aware that the law must be in accordance, and while, while all the applicable laws are in force and if you did not understand my debate correctly, it went in this direction, and the current legal framework and the Ministry of Culture provides a framework in which it lists damage, prepares costs, prepares projects etc. The construction ministry forms teams, starts collecting damages, prepares documentation for the World Bank, prepares documentation for European funds. And the rest, the Ministry of State Property made a register, listed everything, so every ministry works in its own district. It's the same way JLS has to do, and the government has also helped to accommodate those people who need accommodation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202777	Thank you. Thank you very much. A colleague, Djujic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202778	He's been injured. 238 on the deviation from the usual rules in HS. So the minister told me if I didn't get something right. I understood it all well, but I realized that your colleague Batinić said that your ministry had obstructed it, so you should not have spoken to me but to him, but I am glad for me and for the Croatian public that you gave us the answer to the question that your colleague Batinić clearly did not speak the correct information then. Here, that's it. Thank you very much. But I got it all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202779	Comrade Djujic, you are aware that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I will give you a warning about it. The next replica is, colleague Maras, please don't get it from the bench. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202780	Minister, Art. 13 of these changes, and art. 61st Law, 61b. is the fact that it states that simple buildings in the cultural good area do not require building permits for simple buildings. You're exactly saying it's under the Construction Act, I'm gonna amend the Construction Act, but most of it because of teleopers to suit them, they didn't do it. So here only and most favours the teleopers who built the base stations without the necessary permits, without building permits, and this way you will legalize them, on cultural goods. Well, I don't think it's you, being at a culturally good base station. Go through, you'll see, here on Klis, for example, you'll see in the city, in the city center, the base stations set up wherever they want. All I'm asking is that teleopers on the cultural good act like countries where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202781	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras. Comrade Maras, so you can talk, we don't have the same... You have a word. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, here I would remind the minister that she did not answer my question whether she supports the decision of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb to suspend all cultural programmes, cultural programs in the City of Zagreb, and thus defacto stops the scene in the City of Zagreb? Is that basically HDZ policy? If it isn't HDZ policy, why are the Bandics still in town? And why are they still counting on him when making decisions in HS, and he still needs to make important decisions in HS, and budget rebalancing and disbanding parliaments? So he's their favorite partner. So, I'm curious, does it support that decision and why it doesn't react? It does not make it clear and loud that it does not agree and that HDZ does not stand behind it, and after that they do react, to give up Bandic in the city's assembly and in the HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202783	The reply of the respected Minister Koržinek Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202784	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I have to paraphrase the prime minister who often tells you from this bench that he's not in the assembly, I'm not a representative in the assembly. What HDZ supports in its cultural policy as far as artists are concerned is what it did at the Ministry of Culture, which is that we have provided all the software for all the events in the Republic of Croatia, we have provided them, paid them, and made a decision that even when they were cancelled or delayed we allow payments when they go towards independent artists. It's HZD policy, it's our cultural policy and it's our commitment. And you Zagreb-related questions refer to Zagreb and the city of Zagreb and the cultural leaders and those who have made that decision, I cannot really influence it. I have shown in my work what HDZ policy is in relation to culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202785	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202786	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, Minister. To understand it may happen that all of these coalition partners who hold or are responsible for different resolutions come into a particular conflict, but what must not happen is that the Construction Act which is sublimed, all of the Croatian tradition in construction and profession comes into conflict with this law either with this law, or with the law that my colleague Batinić mentioned, is the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. I don't think that's supposed to happen. And with this about this picture of you when you said at one point, the government should not be interested in chimneys in the city of Zagreb, it should be very interested. It was this earthquake that showed all the weakness that occurs when the Construction Act is not applied, when the waist is not respected, and when situations like this occur. We can notice that in the city of Zagreb the most damage was caused by chimneys, and that is why it is important that all the resolutions involved, including this law, respect the profession and bring the best solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202787	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202788	Mr. Representative, thank you for this comment. I'll tell you why I mentioned chimneys, there's been an earthquake, there's a lot of damage from chimneys, citizens have to renovate chimneys quickly. We, as the Ministry of Culture in cooperation with the City Institute, give clear, unambiguous guidelines on how to do this quickly, without taking out the necessary permits in Zagreb as a whole in order to restore that citizens can get heating without having to go through the usual procedure, so that's what we do. Every decision we make yesterday, the day before yesterday, tomorrow or three days from this case, will be that citizens can get that minimum protection aid as soon as possible so that they can return to their homes, so I mentioned the chimneys. You have on our pages these guidelines for chimneys, they're very useful and they've accelerated the procedure very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202789	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MP Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202790	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. You kind of denied what I said from the pay phone. So if that's the case, then by some conclusion, you'll accept the amendment of the HNS Club because if you don't accept the amendment of the HNS Club, then you're practically not only convincing me, but everyone here in the Parliament what you said was true. Here's a useful occasion, the message I got last week we all agreed on, meetings for two and four hours, so that this week two ministers can have their dilemmas again, I'm passing messages, regardless now. I say, nothing needs to be done quickly, things should be checked well, but they would not raise tensions around this part, they would not have submitted an amendment if it weren't for the citizens of the city of Zagreb, the surrounding area. And you, unless you accept the amendment, have neither convinced me nor the Croatian citizens that this is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202791	Answer, Honorable Minister Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202792	Thank you. I'll just repeat that we agree all the laws in the usual procedure. It's true last week I think Friday was the 1st of May we spent 4.5 or I mean 5 hours at the Department of Construction and we all work really fast and fast, it's a complex regulation. It's not just a question of the Ministry of Culture there's a whole series of resolutions and a matter of funding and coordination with local self-government. On the one hand, the law includes the cultural and historical whole of the city of Zagreb, and I can say that we have more or less of our actions to agree on, there is also the issue of ownership of other counties, the issue of co-financing, it is in everyone's interest to pass the law as soon as possible. It is equally in the interest of everyone to make the law unequivocal, clear to be generally accepted by the profession, by all stakeholders and to be enforceable. However, what I said today in the debate on behalf of everyone and while there is no full law we are speeding up doing everything we can and need under existing laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202793	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202794	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, Mr Batinić read the message, but he did not refer to exactly what he was referring to, and in this way he brought it in, I would say in error all together if we knew what they were talking about. This is not a place where the Minister and Mr Batinic are talking, but listen to Croatian citizens and it would be correct to say which message he means, who told him that the minister is obstructing the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202795	My colleague, Maras, and you and I know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a heads-up. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202796	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. This law will define where certain cultural goods, archaeological sites, etc. are located, which is good and what we from HSS welcome. However, what is a problem is that it is part of private property, private particles of the garden are located in potential archaeological sites and part of the citizens... which the Ministry of Culture has entered into grantshops with a note to restrict certain use of its own assets from agrotechnical measures, for example. not more than 15cm orally, etc. Most of them, in such circumstances, are interested in selling then these particles and there have already been writing, and I have personally sent a letter asking you to read if you want to buy that property, citizens are willing to cut off part of that particle or sell the whole particle to the Ministry of Culture. You've referred me to the Nova Gradiška Museum, the Vinkovci Museum, the Ship Museum they don't have the means to handle it on their own. I think the Ministry of Culture could solve it and it should be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202797	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202798	Thank you. I'm sorry that this subject is coming up without you opening it up in the debate. The issue of property legal issues, the boundaries of protected cultural and historical units, are indeed one very, very complex topic. We are aware that sometimes citizens, if we can even say so, become victims of having an archaeological find, what we do is try to do archaeological research as soon as possible, then it can be preserved, and then it can be further exploited in different ways. If it is something that is very valuable, it can be shown interest in the first purchase of any unit of local self-government or the Republic of Croatia. I'd just say, on the one hand, we're very happy as a people, as a country, as a culture that we have this rich cultural heritage, and we're not always ready to include all of our resources and material and others to maintain it, but maybe we're also the victim of that wealth that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202799	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202800	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, it is good that in your final speech you have explained many things, it is good that you have said what steps the Government has taken as they happened, it is good that you stressed that this is a law that is passed because of exceptional circumstances, and perhaps you should further explain what is the technique of passing laws in the Croatian Government for those who do not know how to make it clear to them. And if, by chance, the Government proposes some law that, because of its specificity, dictates some obligation of some other law, that it will be settled in transitional and final terms, and I don't think there's any need for us to collect any political points in this assembly. Surely the Government will not pass a law that will be contrary to the interests of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, and I think that this is how we should discuss here responsibly. And to claim that something like this can only be said by those who do not know what the technique is, how much coordination is finally and the narrow cabinet passes the law before it is found at the discussion in HS i.e. before the government brings it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202801	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this subject, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. The next amendment is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 941. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Miro Bulj, MP Branko Bačić, the Croatian Representatives' Club and Liberal Democrats. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Ivica Poljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202803	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Appreciable representatives of amendments to the amendments to the Mira Bulja amendment, the amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The place of the law governing the issue of construction permits is the Construction Act with which the provision proposed by the amendment is harmonised, the amendment proposes to provide for the establishment of a building permit and in those cases where it is not necessary under the regulation governing and building it. However, cases in which a building permit is issued cannot be regulated by a special law but only to further regulate the setting of specific conditions for the issue of a building permit in the section of a particular public legal body, in this case specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods. Determination of specific conditions in the case of noise, electromagnetic radiation, invisible spectrum or other adverse environmental emissions in the process of issuing a building permit, it is not within the scope of the Ministry of Culture and therefore the proposed amendment cannot be accepted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202804	The applicant for the amendment, please, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202805	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government, when we talk about cultural goods, we have a base station on the fortress in Klis today, and you're giving this law the opportunity to base stations, teleopers are eligible, set up wherever they want and for cultural good. As far as the Construction Act is concerned, I've put the bill on the table so that the base stations and antenna pillars can be placed with a building permit. I've been rejected twice by this majority because you're hitting teleopers because the brother is the head of a cultural body agency, and the sister is a minister. Do not favor teleopers for the damage of cultural goods. The biggest teleoper's profit is in the Republic of Croatia. So do you know what it looks like to be in Dubrovnik on the walls of a base station as huge as in Klis on St. It's a duo in the bell tower. You made it possible, at the church of Lady Sinjska, in Sibenik Cathedral, in Zadar. So why are you doing this, why are you using this law to allow teleoperators to set up base stations in cultural goods as willless as they are without a building permit. Where did you get that right? Em, which has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, em, which you as the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia enjoy. I ask for a vote on this amendment, and if you accept this, do not accept the amendment then it is indeed the high treason of Croatian cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202806	Thank you very much. The next amendment is Agent Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202807	The amendment of the esteemed representative, Mr Branko Bačić, shall be accepted in a modified form in such a way as to add a new paragraph 1 to Article 7 or Article 49(2) beyond the words ‘Cultural Minister’, shall be added as follows: ‘in accordance with the provisions of the Maritime Code’. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202808	Declaration by the applicant of the amendment, the honourable representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you, Mr. Secretary-General of State, for agreeing with this supplement, which, in addition to my amendment, still adds to the Maritime Code. Namely, this amendment should also say that all archaeologists investigating the submarine will be able to explore the cultural goods at the bottom of the sea after this law for the first time the bottom of the epicontinental belt below the protected ecological fishing belt. More than a message to allow this amendment to archaeologists we send a clear message to all politicians in Croatia who say that the protected ecological fishing belt is strange to the beak. This shows clearly that Croatia has and benefits as a state, has its sovereign rights in the protected ecological fishing band and the same politicians who insist on saying that ZER is strange to the beak, that I am not referring anything to the UN pages or the Assembly of the International Convention for the Law of the Sea. Croatia is also on the list of countries that have declared IGP in the world, an exclusive economic belt. Even as the ecological fishing band in its constituents is protected, in its content the same economic belt best tells the fact that on the pages of the General Assembly of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of the UN is our protected ecological fishing band not even led as a protected ecological fishing band but as an exclusive economic belt. The only one on the Adriatic. No other State has declared any belt including the Republic of Italy which would belt or zone or anything else in that Convention contained I thank the government for this, and I accept the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202810	Do you accept the amendment? Thank you very much. And the third amendment is the Club of HNS Representatives Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202811	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202812	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202813	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 941, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Bulj representative Bačić Branko, the Club of HNS-liberal Democrats Representatives. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. The government accepted the amendment of the HNS-liberal Democrats' Club of Representatives and in the amended form of amendments by MP Branko Bačić, which both agreed and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. And now we will vote on the amendment of the Bulja MPs that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has been rejected, has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 100 for, 11 abstentions, 9 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202814	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 942 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an added explanation? Yeah. Dear Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202815	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. So, I would also like to remind you that on 1 January 2019, a package of 6 pension laws included this Law on Mandatory Pension Funds was fully regulated by a pension system which is three-stage in the Republic of Croatia, so we are talking about a system of generation solidarity, then individual capitalised savings II pillar and voluntary pension savings III pillar. We have done all this to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system, but also the suitability of pensions both present and future pensioners. What's very important at first to mention is that pensions are safe, they're coming and coming in on time. It is particularly important to highlight a series of measures that have improved the capitalised system, i.e. the pension pillar, such as further reduction of administrative costs and fees, liberalisation of pension funds investments, and also strengthening investment in improving financial literacy, etc. We have opted for further strengthening and development of the II pension pillar, and all to increase the amount of pensions to members of pension funds. By improving the capitalised system, we also contribute to economic growth and the development of the capital markets, but also to labour markets. It is indisputable that in the battery phase, the second pillar has received excellent results and the data show that pension funds are doing well and will play a significant role in the capital market, as they already have, but also for future pensions to be made from the 2nd pension pillar. Since our commitment, as I have already said, is further strengthening the three-stage pension system because we believe that only in such a way can a sustainable and appropriate pension system be provided, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the HS to accept this Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, with the Final Proposal of the Law before you and for the following reasons. As you know, this law provides for the establishment and operation of compulsory pension funds, as part of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, the establishment and operation of pension societies for the management of compulsory pension funds, the operations of REGOS depositaries or the Central Insurance Register and supervision of their operations. In doing so, it is very important to highlight the role of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) which is an independent and supervisory body and is overseeing the financial market, financial services and legal and physical persons who provide such services as it implies and control the operations of a company that manages the mandatory pension funds. What I must especially remind myself of is that four companies are operating in the Republic of Croatia today for the management of mandatory pension funds, which are Allianz, Erste, Raiffeisen and PBZ Croatia Insurance. It is important to note that there are currently more than 2 million personal account members, namely 2 million and 27 thousand, which is an increase of nearly 80,000 members compared to the same period last year. Also, as you know, there are three categories of pension funds, A, B and C. with regard to life, depending on the investment strategy or, or the limits of investment of the fund. Thus, category A funds are risky compared to the other two with expected highest yields, they are suitable for first-time insurance companies, i.e. new insurance companies. Category B funds are moderately risky, funds are suitable for mid-life insurance, but are also the oldest funds currently in which the largest, large majority of insurance companies of different age groups are 1,9 million members of that B-category. While category C funds are low-risk funds with slightly lower expected yields and are suitable for older-age insurance or funds, they are funds in which citizens are located just before retirement. So it's legally prescribed that 5. Before retirement, these insurance companies must be necessarily and legally in category C. In line with the increase in the number of members, the net assets that increased at the end of the first quarter of this year were 108.63 billion kuna and that is the increase of 6.23 billion kuna compared to the previous year and 6.08% per year, respectively. The domestic market for pension funds since the start of the introduction of a three-stage pension system, which I remind you was in 2002, records stable and competitive contributions, with an average annual yield of all three categories exceeding 5%, and when we look at it segmented by categories, then we see that the average yield for A is 8.16%, for B category is 5.67%, and for category C is 5.89%. When we talk about the business of pension funds, we must look to the specific circumstances currently in place in the Republic of Croatia, which occurred as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19 disease. In this regard, there have also been some changes in the market where pension funds have lost some of the value, but not in all categories. Category C funds remained in positive spectrum, which is extremely important when we talk about the category of fund from which citizens, as I have already said, retire. Thus, MIREKS or a performance indicator of all mandatory pension funds, which is public, shows that category A in the last 12 months has recorded a minus 0.55%, category B +1.49% and category C +2.17%. The category A and B peace funds had slightly greater fluctuations, but in the long run they have time to compensate for short-term losses in these extraordinary circumstances that hit the whole world, not just the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, it is necessary, in particular, to take into account that long-term investors with an investment horizon of 30 to 40 years are long-term investors. This also shows that the current negative circumstances will have a relatively minor impact on the final value of investment funds. In particular, it should be mentioned that the investment of compulsory pension funds and their work is necessary, that we should not view it as a sprint or as a 100-metre race but as a 40-year marathon. This is why it is important to constantly highlight exactly the long-term horizon and long-term investment. We are aware of the moment in which we are all in place, which is why changes and additions to this law ensure timely treatment of HANFA in the event of special circumstances, which means events or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which endangers the life and health of citizens, property of greater value, significantly disrupts the environment, disrupts economic activity or causes significant economic damage, which is precisely the situation with COVID-19. Therefore, from the above mentioned circumstances, it is proposed to extend the spectrum of allowed investment of pension funds to and from the CNB and the European Central Bank. It is also about the safest investment which carries minimal risks, and may be useful and necessary for pension funds because it is safer to deposit more amounts with the CNB in any case. In addition, the possibility of pension funds to borrow money from third parties is expanded in the total amount of 5% of the net value of the fund’s assets through repo transactions and repurchase and repurchase transactions, as well as lending programmes. Borrowing can be no longer than 5 years. in the case of loans from the CNB or the ECB of the European Central Bank or for a period of not more than 3 months if we are talking about third parties. In addition, HANFAs are given the authority to increase pension funds by its decision to borrow third party money. Such a decision can be made only as an exception to that rule, and due to the occurrence of specific circumstances where the limit may increase to a maximum of 15% of the net assets, the net value of the fund's assets, taking into account the proportionality and need of any specific situation and of all the participants involved. It is also authorised by HANFI to make a decision temporarily allowing overruns of investment of the assets of compulsory pension funds as a result of special circumstances. Such a decision may be taken for a period of no more than one year and its duration in an exceptional case may be extended as long as such circumstances persist or the consequences of such circumstances persist. This measure has a temporary character that acts on all pension societies equally. What I must also mention is that the amendments to and complement the infringements of the law and the follow-up to all of the above-mentioned adoption of this law are part of the measures that seek to enable the speedy and adequate treatment of HANFE in the emerging special circumstances caused by the Covida-19 epidemic. It is also necessary to point out once again that pension funds are long-term investors and that in this way we must observe them in the 30 to 40-year horizon and that the impact of market shocks is expected to be neutralised over time. Following all of this, it is important to adopt this law by an urgent procedure in order to minimise the possible negative effects of specific circumstances and maintain the stability of business of economic operators and to propose, too, what I must specifically mention is that we accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, which is a nomotechnical nature, because it gives rise to a statement and an exception is prescribed. The exception of what is proposed is the entry into force of this law on the first day of the day of publication in the National Journal. Here, so much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202816	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first one's a respected attorney, Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202817	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As part of the reform of the pension system, Prime Minister Plenkovic's government has improved the system of generation solidarity. The first pillar is the system of individual capitalised savings, the second pillar and the third pillar of voluntary pension savings. Because today we're talking about the second pillar of what the government has improved by.../incomprehensible/... changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202818	Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202819	Thank you. Dear Mrs Maximchuk, what I must especially point out is that in the context of the reform of the pension system we have corrected the generational inequality that actually led to the birth of people by '62. The year and the year after '62. the years with the same conditions, the same internship had a different pension between 700 and 1,000 kuna depending on how much income they had during their lives. We corrected this generational inequality and these laws, it was a six-law package as you remember it came into force in 1.1.2019. What we have also improved within the second pillar is that the reduced benefits to pension funds, entry, exit, management fee in the final year by 2030 will mean that 2 billion, a billion and 300 million kunas remain more in the accounts of the users. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202820	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202821	Thank you very much. So we and in this law as well as in other laws so-called. We have in the crowns that provision that the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System, or any ministry, will, within 2 years of the date of entry into force of this law, carry out the compensation for the impact assessment of this law. We are absolutely aware that these are extraordinary circumstances, circumstances that we do not recognize, nor do we recognize the world, nor do we know how long it will last. What will be a criterion for you, some of the basic elements of the basis for you to do that bill's impact assessment, or on which you will be guided, which will be the elements, will it be something that we will do for, about the same problem for all the countries that are EU members? Don't let Mr. Shucker whisper. It's this one, but are we going to do that, are you going to do that or are you going to do some specific things? It's some newspaper, I suppose you're also preparing for that paper so you can try to answer something a little bit on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202822	Thank you. Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202823	Dear Mrs. Mrak Taritaš, thank you for asking, so everything will be in accordance with the law and according to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Law on fiscal responsibility and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202824	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202825	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State you mentioned in your presentation about 80,000 more newly enrolled in various pension funds, whether it is Group A, B or C, I am interested in how many of these 80,000 young people are and where the fund, where pension funds have been included, and I am asking you for the reason that young people are most often employed because of insufficient information, are referred to as being recommended by some of the funds by the employer. Very few have information that the fund is doing and where to get involved, and with the aim of, as you said, investing in the long term, a marathon, so that after the end of that marathon, they will not be left without the means because their pension would not be followed by the increase in living costs that we in HSS are explicitly sensitive to because the poorest part of the population is unfortunately the largest part of the pensioners so that we don't bring young people into this situation to be poor at the end of the marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202826	Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202827	Dear Mr Vlaovic, I must first of all mention the direction of this government, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, as well as the implementing institutions to financial literacy. As you know, mandatory pension funds under this law have an obligation also, a certain portion of the funds to be allocated for financial literacy. Why am I telling you this? Because you mentioned the brides. Namely, the data for which it is publicly available and which we have often communicated and in this House of higher education is that more than 90% of people entering the labour market do not choose a mandatory pension fund. The desire is for all of us, and here I must appeal and fully to the whole society precisely in raising the level of financial literacy that all indeed, and especially those young They choose their pension fund and its category on their own. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202828	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202829	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, every third pensioner in the Republic of Croatia lives below the poverty line. The pensions are small and therefore the biggest cause is a small amount of contributions to the pension fund, I'm talking about pillar I. Almost half of that amount is settled from tax revenues and I agree with you when you say it's II. In fact, one marathon that needs to run for 40 years, and in this sense, we could also call this exercise marathon the law you're proposing today, and it's about investing pension funds to fertilise that capital, however, I should also watch out for nutrition. We've asked here several times in the Parliament in the debate, and of course, now that the crisis has come, it's hard to talk about. Where the ratio between the payment in column I and paragraph II is to be set The column, when in the future he will be able to change to be II. The column could really become a marathon really in the future and allow all pensioners to retire decently?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202830	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202831	Thank you, Your Honor. As I have already stated, pensions are safe, their payout goes on time, so it will remain and beyond. What I particularly must stress is that in the term of this government, led by Prime Minister Plenkovic, all pensions grew by 12%, and that those lowest pensions received by as many as 250 thousand of our citizens grew by 15%. Also, the average pension in the Republic of Croatia for March 2012 amounted to slightly more than 2800 kuna, while the average pension for people who had 40 and over years of internships was 4664 kuna, which was a share in the average salary of almost 70%. So, the appeal from this place, that it's extremely important that all of us continue to insist that people stay on the labour market as long as possible. Because the longer the labour market stays, the bigger the pension, the higher the pension. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202832	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202833	Thank you very much. Ma'am. State Secretary, perhaps you should say that this law will not only technically determine certain things but it also stabilises the tightened terms of the financial market, here I am primarily referring to the foreign and binding market, and when we talk about tightening relations and if they will calm down with this law, it has a significant impact on future financing, both countries, both citizens and businessmen. This law may be behind these few important things to look a little wider and I can't touch HANFA again. I am again pleased to see that the importance of HANFA here, although some in one period of Croatian financial history have tried to disabling HANFA, and I think that now that you look here at the importance of HANFA in controlling and giving licenses for certain jobs, then you should clearly point out that HANFAs should be given greater importance and that we should give the leaders of HANFAs a completely different position, not the official position they unfortunately have, in which some have brought them. In 2012 we could change the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202834	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202835	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. So, I think that eventually this crisis will also actually show how well-designed, robust, well-supervised, well-supervised and efficient the system of mandatory pension funds is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202836	Now we're going to the clubs. The first was to be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and should have spoken to the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, and will then, on behalf of the Living Wall Club, change Croatia, as I understand it, share the time with the respected representative Sabolek and MP Lovrinović. Or just a respected representative of Sabolek, I don't know. Okay. Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202837	... pensioners are the poorest in the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] How many thousands of people can't survive retirement, they have to dig through garbage and buy bottles so they can survive. You know when the most expensive bottles come together? During your military parade, you invest in enormous sums of money. When they all leave, part of them say, then we're the happiest. Let's get the bottles first. I'll never forget a picture like that. She slipped into my memory like the bloodiest wound. Remember, poverty is not a desire but a consequence. The result of lack of understanding and will is the least measure of human dignity, and as such, it is the most painful and bloodiest wound. How can they be satisfied when they dig through the trash, eat in the soup kitchen, live with blocked accounts, freeze and watch this picture daily, and every year during the winter months we read how, unfortunately, someone froze. The fact is that the reform of the system to the pensioners that it had just taken HDZ away by introducing II. It puts pensioners down, that it has reduced pensions to pensioners and that they are the only ones who will profit from it, unfortunately, from various funds. And as if you don't have the shame, you're still, and now with this law, you're handing the funds and the banks again, and to the benefit of the pensioners. The law goes in the opposite direction of what should be done at this point, which is that the second pension column helps the state rather than the other way around. This would mean that, for a certain period of time, as the exceptional circumstances persist, payments to the second pension column are suspended and they are directed into the first pension column, which would significantly reduce the budget deficit, significantly reduce the need for government borrowing and significantly mitigate public debt growth, scandalously. I'll comment on the articles. In the case of an art. 1. The government, at the expense of the state, adopts such an emergency law that takes care of compulsory pension funds rather than pass a law which would solve the problem of the state at the expense of compulsory pension funds. It is impossible to find any economic logic in this proposal. On the contrary, we will be thinking about the influence of private stakeholders on government and parliament decisions, using the current situation to avoid serious debates. In the case of an art. 2. opening the possibility of compulsory pension funds being owed to third parties is essentially contrary to the idea of compulsory pension funds. It's crazy that mandatory pension funds can be owed to the CNB, and the state can't. In the case of an art. 3., and this article gives too much discretion to the powers of HANFA, and it is suggested that compulsory pension funds are expected to increase the share of government property bonds with the aim of financing the state by further purchasing government bonds. Mr. Shuker, I'd like to ask if I can say it all the way. So, this is a pathological situation known earlier, a key flaw in mandatory pension funds, and now it's getting more intense. The state will borrow from compulsory pension funds the money it has just given up and pay fees, interest rates, increase public debt, and then there will likely be a rise of interest from the government bond which will increase the total cost of the state, but which is such a paradoxical and fall in the value of the assets of compulsory pension funds. Mandatory pension funds, of course, are not overly concerned about the value of the assets because the state uses laws that go in their favor, scandalously. In the case of an art. 4., penalties for offences are ridiculous in relation to the net profit of the company in 2019. It was over 150 million kuna, scandalous. In the case of an art. 5. Preserve that impact assessment will be carried out 2.g. After the law is passed, it speaks of the government's incredible irresponsibility, the law is passed without any projections of the influence of the law, which is insane. The urgency of the procedure seems to be aggravating the circumstances of any serious debate on the effects of the law, so it is better that there is no projection that would probably easily be questioned, scandalous. The second pension pillar is a hoax, left by all EU members, and he only lives in the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia, where the poorest pensioners live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202838	The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202839	Dear citizens, I am speaking to you and sending clear messages on the grounds of this bill's proposal. What is behind this bill? The state will need between 45 billion and 65 billion kuna to repair the costs of this crown crisis, helping workers who are jobless, entrepreneurs, etc., etc. How does she want to do that? There's no money, no kuna in the budget. You see, that's why here the proposal for this law that it is now giving extends the HANFA's powers as a supervisory regulatory body so that it can give compulsory pension funds from the second pillar permission to be in this situation in debt to the CNB from 5% to 15% in relation to the size of their assets. This short term, dear citizens, means that in the coming weeks and months mandatory pension pillars, second pillar funds can be owed from 5 to 15 billion kuna compared to their assets. Dear citizens, there are four mandatory pension funds, all in the hands of foreign banks. Therefore, all of you who are in the second pension column there have no savings and the Croatian pension system in the second pillar is privatized, it is out of Croatian control, meaning ours. What am I trying to say here? Here is the introduction of data that compulsory pension funds are operating positively. That's not true. Since the start of the coronary crisis, on average, all pension funds that have had about 110 billion kuna lost about 10 billion kuna, dear citizens, have you been informed of this by your mandatory pension funds? I doubt it. Mandatory pension funds lost in this whole Agrokor story 801 million kuna because I asked a representative question, and you're not informed about it either. So, what's the background here, the strategy, next. The only one is, the Republic of Europe has a second pension stake, no one else. This is an operation to save and retain compulsory pension funds only in the Republic of Croatia, so that they continue to be the RS chief financiers. So the next one is logic. So the model is next. The peace funds will be in debt, for example. For 15 billion kuna at the CNB, they will receive money, they will give the CNB state bonds equivalent to 15 billion kuna, and then compulsory pension funds will buy a new series of bonds from the state for 15 billion kuna, and thus dear citizens will increasingly control the political government, the Parliament, the government and hold them in their hands. Would you like that, my fellow citizens? So you see that the banks sold, insurance companies, the pension system is privatized, here I'm telling you the truth. The economic team of party experts Let's change Croatia you see revealing what is behind this. Who's supposed to be doing this? Well, this is what my people's banks have to do. Therefore, you see banks no one mentions, so the real institutions that could do this is the Croatian Post Bank, HBOR, Croatian Bank and, of course, give the business banks others to do so. The banks in their portfolio have about 50 billion kuna bonds, they're not mentioned you see. So this is an exclusive job to give the pension system space to survive, to keep all of us going, especially retired people in your hand to determine politics in Croatia, and we never will. So our proposal is to change Croatia, do these operations through banks. Secondly, let's change the CNB Act I asked for, let's let the CNB directly as England did a month ago, directly buy from the Republic of Croatia bonds at 0%, and therefore, dear citizens see that we have concrete, clear solutions. But on the other hand, we see that the CNB is becoming a growing printing press of money without cover, you see now everyone is silent. Smart in the head, dear citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202840	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202841	Dear vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. There's another law before us that might be called the Coronation Law. The Croatian Parliament has adopted a solid number of such laws for the past two months, or better said amendments and additions that we sow under our legislation. Most of these laws contain an impact assessment obligation in the future, and this will be an important job for the next term of the Parliament. It seems to us that it would be best to make a special schedule with the crown laws and in time to make a serious analysis of what we have brought. Otherwise, we can easily forget about them and keep the changes we have made to the shortcut permanent. Everyone says we're going to live in one new reality and we're going to live for sure, nothing more behind this coronary virus or the first stage of it, or whatever we call it, it's not going to be the same. And we'll have to be prepared. Why am I actually saying that? We've been passing laws for two months with two basic motivations, fear and speed. None of these things are God-knows-what guarantees we haven't made a mistake. So, under this fear that the coronary virus sown that we don't know who it is, or what consequences it can have, how long it can last, that was one motive. And another motive to make something quick, according to what we knew at that moment. We actually, let's be honest, we don't know how, but even when this crisis is going to end, we don't even know when it all goes through what the conclusions will be. There's no previous solution that we can call upon because already some experience has passed, we don't have that solution, we don't have the whole world, and we're actually groping in the dark, deciding from case to case. We are inclined to do so and it seems to me that through a series of laws we see it, even if we are perhaps excessively restrictive on the one hand, but on the other hand we are questioning some fundamental position of democracy and human rights systems. It was very interesting yesterday's statement by Minister Davor Bozinovic saying that in the case of a second wave of crowns, measures should not be so restrictive, which actually says that we are constantly adapting to the situation and that we do not have a safe recipe for how to behave. That's why we need to be very serious, and we need to be very careful what we sow through what we've done. The crown laws while our fear was great eyes and whether we had made any imbalances or damage. One of the crown laws that we will need to deal with in the future is the one that we are changing and supplementing today, which is the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. This law provides for 6 articles, 6 amendments and additions to be made immediately after publication in the NN. It's common that it's always eight days, but when it comes to this, I call it the Coronal Laws, then that argument that we need an emergency we kind of accept and we think it's okay. The 5th article is the one I have given and the replica of the distinguished State Secretary, which I was saying at the outset, it is that within two years an impact assessment of this law must be carried out and this will be extremely important. I am absolutely sure that some of the crown laws and something that we have brought may prove to be actually good that we should have done so, but something that we will need to be careful and we will need a good analysis, it will be the responsibility of the future Parliament and the future government. 4. is the adaptation of infringements, those who are key articles are 1, 2 and 3 and in our opinion the emphasis is on the 3rd article. It has already been introduced into the law by a well-known definition of special circumstances that involve events or a certain state, etc., which I have already said, we have inserted into a whole series of other laws since the start of the epidemic and this crisis. As a first step, we extend the range of allowed investment of pension funds and to deposits with the CNB and the European Central Bank. In the very context of this amendment, the example of investment in the higher issue of government bonds and the security of deposit of higher amounts to the CNB is cited. If I read well, and I think yes, the key intention of this law is to open up the possibility of providing additional liquidity to the state, including pension funds in a rather unpredictable situation waiting for us. Such an intention is read even more clearly from the following second article of this Act, which prescribes two possible cases of debt of pension funds in third parties with a deadline of 5 g. where it is debted either by the CNB or by the European Central Bank. This article continues, and gives HANFA the power to lift the debt limit of funds up to 15% of the total value of the assets. This is to be addressed, as I have already said in our opinion, the key third article, which gives HANFA the power to literally derrogate art in a certain way. 125th to 134th of the law. What are these articles prescribing? They prescribe very detailed what the assets of pension funds can consist of, or in what proportions they can invest in. The principle common to all these articles of the law is the principle of security, prudence and caution. I think we all need to stand there together for a moment and especially emphasize what is important in these times, which is that we do not forget security, prudence and caution. This, however, is nothing and cannot be anyone's investment market play, but these are ours, and in particular the assets of future, future generations' pensions. This amendment paves the way for the funds and the HANFA to change the required shares and investment ratios. We have nothing against it in principle. We're dealing with very serious institutions here, from the funds themselves through HANFA to the CNB. But when it comes to laws like this, I always want to point out, and I'm going to stress, security, prudence and caution because in this unknown situation, which we are afraid of the virus, we are not reacting in a panic. I don't mean that anything exclusive to us in the Republic, I mean the whole world that's actually struggling with a new, new, new epidemic, a new one, and in that fear they're always a little too big-eyed. It's like I said, this is a law that regulates the work of very serious institutions. That's four big funds that big banks are behind. The ones we have, we don't have any other banks, we have the ones we have. The HANFA also stands for the indirect CNB or business with the CNB and the European Central Bank. HANFA's posts are public and will be particularly interesting when this law applies. What he will bring remains to be seen. The increase in the liquidity of the state from the funds itself is one question, the increased transfer of money from funds to the state, perhaps to increase the investment of funds on the domestic stock market, all of which will be seen in the days to come. The provision for the law to come into force at the same time was in all other laws, to me it may already be something waiting around the corner that we do not know. We at the GLAS Club or the Civil-Liberal Alliance will support this law, but we have a need, I need to stress and warn about two key things. The first is that we really lead to this principle of security, prudence and caution in taking care of it and taking seriously the need to analyse and assess its effects as well as for all the other Corona laws. After that, perhaps some of the things that have entered the crown of the law prove that we should have done it before, that the crown should not have forced us to do it, and perhaps something can be seen that we may have been even too careful, that in some things we may have been conservative, that perhaps we should have been in some things more liberal, and perhaps we can conclude that it is not the best solution. Therefore, as I said, we will support this, and for some other parliament and some other government will be a serious business ahead of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202842	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ma'am. Secretary of State, Mr. Head of HANFA, many colleagues and colleagues. I'm honestly preparing myself and collecting data in my head for this debate today that is expected to be a very heated debate here, that many of those who have talked about why the government not like this, why the CNB not like this, why not like this, that today will say something about this. Because look, we're talking about changing the law today where at this point those who have 110 billion per asset, we're allowing a new way of placing funds. On the other hand, what I'm reading from this law, which is more significant, is that the government, after measures to help the economy, managed to do the most important thing, which is that the complete financial sector in the Republic of Croatia brought one table to the table and that it simply sought from different models of financial potential in the Republic of Croatia to the maximum. And that's just a fact. Because the government, Prime Minister, Vice President and Minister of Finance, failed to put all of them at the table, had they not been able to convince them of the gravity of the situation, likely, that such an agreement would not have occurred. Be assured. Why? Because everyone selfishly guards their position, everyone doesn't want to expose himself selfishly, and the only one who has to be exposed is the government. But the biggest thing is that the government recognizes the potential of its financial market and wants to make the most of it. And colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you, this law weighs 16 and a half billion kuna, 16 and a half billion kuna, which compulsory pension funds can either be placed by purchasing bonds from the Republic of Croatia or by intervention by loans to the economy. And those are the only two facts, no third facts. And that should be said clearly here, and none of it happened by chance because look, somebody's going to say, they should have gone out in debt and whether it should be like this. Because, look, some of them were attacking why CNB didn't participate in... processes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that the amendments to this law by CNB do two things, it is one that a quality collateral, which is the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, are taken from mandatory pension funds as some kind of guarantee for the loan they will receive, and on the other hand, they thus stabilise the bond market of the Republic of Croatia. Because if these bonds start to be traded uncontrollably, on these bonds we won't lose anything, but anyone who goes into debt after that, whether to raise a loan to the bank, whether the state is going to issue bonds and whether the citizens are going to raise a loan, everything, everyone's going to pay more. And that's why this operation has to be looked at that way. And it is good that, after relaxing part of the reserve and thus increasing the liquidity of business banks, after agreeing with the European Central Bank, that it will receive 2 billion euros to stabilise the exchange rate, it has also decided to buy or take bonds from pension funds, additional to the Croatian economy and the Croatian state to provide 16.5 billion funds. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, next week we'll probably have budget rebalances. And we'll see on both the income and the expenditure side what this crown crisis has brought, above all, to public finances. But, colleagues and colleagues, don't skip the financial plans of extra budget users. So there's HAC, there's Croatian roads, there's railways, there's HZZO. Now, look, when you get it all together, so when you get one consolidated balance sheet of the state budget, then you'll see how much money it takes to finance it all. Did Croatian businessmen, after the government has made a decision on 3250 kuna, practically receive these money, not only get these money but also to psychologically send a message to all Croatian entrepreneurs, do not send people to the Stock Exchange, try to keep them, we do not know how long this will take, but let us be stronger in the beginning tomorrow when the situation is normalized as much as possible. The government has secured that liquidity from its own reserves. But now comes much higher costs and the logical thing that the government should legislatively prepare to come up with new, fresh money. It's just a fact. Now, all those who gave the lesson that one way or another should make an observation. What's the matter if the funds? Yeah, and I have to say it. It is not for the sake of the Croatian public, for future Croatian pensioners. Not necessarily pension funds lost 10 billion. Their assets have been reduced by maybe a billion, 500 billion kuna to stock values, but these are shares of Croatian companies that are all representative companies, which have acquired circumstances due to the coronaryvirus, etc., their stock value has a little submerged, but tomorrow that value will grow and be greater than that, so that loss, in fact, decrease, so I say, property, should not be seen as such at all. That's because a colleague before that said sensationally that by 10 billion incomes were reduced. So, colleagues and colleagues, this law should just be watched... how the government reacts spotlessly to the situation and how the government wants to simply advance some of the things that will come to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance minister made it clear that he expects it to need between 65 billion kuna and 75 billion kuna for funding, which is the budget, which has been reprogrammed by the commitments made to the previous years. Well, look, on the financial market, the international market is already slow. The question is how and under what conditions Croatia will be in charge. The minister is probably thinking about it, but he's also very much testing, and he's very much making up the story with domestic financial institutions. I was here about a month and a half ago saying about the Insurance Act that all the financial potential of Croatia needs to be united to get out of this crisis as easily and as easy as possible. Because look, when you look at this law, what does it actually say? He only says the possibility of borrowing pension funds from the CNB and the European Central Bank to be extended to 5 years. It also empowers the regulator who controls the work of mandatory pension funds to increase their debt from 5% to 15% of their capital. And the third thing, which is also very important, that the pension funds of their assets, according to the existing law, had to be kept at commercial banks, according to the amendments to this law that these funds could be held by central banks or by the European Central Bank, thus making these funds much safer and more stable. 'Cause look, you in one financial market disorder don't know what kind of bank, what kind of place it's gonna be and what could happen. So this third thing, it should be seen as a very important security element. One very important thing. And it only says how much one of the eyes of the technical law, the simple law thought of very much in itself. And again, I'm going to say, to HANFA we've put together this colleague who sits there a long time ago in 2006 with the fact that she's growing, but in 2012, some of those HANFAs have been reduced to usually bureaucratic, so to speak, bureaucratic office, and now look how much we've changed financially back a month and a half where the main control role of HANFA is. So when you take how much of the non-banking financial sector at this time, it is in the jurisdiction of the HANFA and when you take that Croatia's going towards the Eurozone CNB has got one completely different function and since both investments and Croatian citizens and businessmen will go in one other direction, which is this non-banking financial sector, then the role of the HANFA is very important. The role of the HANFA that will protect property, above all, Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen. Because if the regulator responds in time, eventually, HANFA first recommended that insurance companies and I don't know who doesn't pay off profits this year because you can't ask for some incentives and something, while paying off the profits, so that's what she saw in her thinking as some potential insurance companies and that non-financial sector tomorrow for funding and the economy, and also for state funding. So, one law if we're going to really watch it and watch it, only one cube in the mosaic of good things that the government has done in this crown crisis to save the Croatian economy and to start or reboot whatever you want, after the measures are a little less relaxed are as high-quality and as best as possible because don't tell your colleagues and colleagues that out of these 16.5 billion kunas can not end a billion and a half or two billion in the projects of certain businessmen if the pension funds estimate that these funds are needed there. That's why this is another good government move made in time. All those who yelled and told the CNB not to do this, not that, here's the CNB's layoffs, after the interventions to save the course, after the agreement with the European Central Bank on the preservation of the exchange rate, another intervention, but I say only help finance the stability of the state, and when the state is stable and when the state is cheaply in debt then so will the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202844	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202845	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, it doesn't make sense to repeat everything. Therefore, the HNS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. First of all, we've heard a lot of suggestions from this pay phone, and they can come down to a lot of wishes, a lot of good intentions, and we haven't had a number of times, either, and who's going to give more. I'm not saying that for everything, honor of exceptions, but many times it's been thought about how to share and how to give as much money to citizens, to companies, and I've never said that before and down in the building of INAs, I haven't really heard from where, I haven't heard it specifically from and how. I should, I would agree, I should, help absolutely, the government recognized it, we here all worked together on it personally and each MP gave each individual concrete suggestions and within the framework of some possibilities. This is exactly one of those things that we've been doing so far where we've been sort of finding a certain asset, colleague Shuker has now explained very well on the example of the CNB how we can finance this emerging situation is just coming up. This has been an intervention so far, this has been a ceasefire, and now we need to take and rebuild and clean everything from the beginning. I believe it will go much faster, I believe it will go much easier than the previous crisis, but that country must play its part. That's why I've said it more than once, my colleague Schucker has mentioned out-of- budget users and their plans, and I've mentioned it more than once that you should now not stop with investments but vice versa, run everything that's planned for the next three years to restart, for what you don't need some documentation, the license now goes. If we plan to rebuild for the next two years, pave the 100km of highways don't wait two years to do it in the next three months and there's no traffic anyway. Why? It's just that we're both in projections and funding that we can secure, and we didn't throw the money in the well and give someone just like that, but something remains, added value, something remains that we would do anyway. And let's try something we had planned for the next two years to do in the next six months or run. How, why, again, the question of where the money came from for all this. ...the users can be in debt, the state too, and I think that this right here is actually what we're doing, and we're increasing the borrowing limit against third parties from 5 to 15%, etc. I don't know how many billion let's nationalize it, I don't know what. Let's make better use of that, and that's what we said when we talked about last year's pension reform. Let's make as much use of it as possible for citizens who are owners and who are the users to get as much money as possible for their investments in these funds. I believe that at a minimum risk as well as here, good control standards and processes as they are intended to be would have just done. So, not to repeat now everything that we have so far changed here, I think that this is exactly what needs to be pointed out to the citizens, just one of the reasons why we're going to hear all of this, what we're doing, what we're planning to do from the release of contributions, the delaying of contributions, the giving of grants, and just now we're going to go, and HMAG needs to go, and HBOR, I saw that he's even doing something, and now we just need as much money as possible, and we need everything to work. And it is now the biggest challenge for us to take advantage of and maximum... how much we can keep everything working and to increase and use this crisis to increase efficiency, quality and the state and public sector itself, but above all, the whole economy in the global and how much... So once again, the HNS club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202846	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. The first was to be a respected representative of Sasa Djujic, gone, losing his right to debate. So she will speak to a respected representative of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202847	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President of HS, Your Honors Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Zigman. Here is the opportunity indeed to once again confirm that the Government has responded in time just as a series of current laws we have passed in the emergency procedure and this is how we will very much help all together, starting with the budget itself, the budget users and all those who depend heavily on the resources of the state budget, but also on the economy because we see that a lot has actually been done within a very short period of time, within a month. And what I have repeatedly stressed is that the government has just reacted very quickly, that all institutions reacted very quickly, that the employees and entrepreneurs of the funds they applied for, which is over 500,000, we are talking about 500 000 people, have received funds within a very short period of time that have been approved through these laws, and all that is actually done through these laws, and their duration is 3 months with the possibility of extension, but for that too, the sources from which it is all expensive to finance. The public must know that if the economy has stopped yes, here it has been helped in a way that is 3.250,00 or 4,000,00 kn per employee, but the public must know that there should be a payment of contributions, and these contributions are then financed by both health care professionals, so all persons in school, scientists, police officers, customs officers, etc. So there are no magical invisible assets stored somewhere, and that didn't come from circulation actually paying or paying contributions and taxes. Therefore, the whole system, and we say, is very unpredictable in which time something will change, so when it will work out the entire economic system, when tourism will stand on, on its feet, how much will the losses of all of it be. So this is the way in which a very high quality model was found from both the existing funds that exist, so through voluntary pension funds and regulations that this way gives additional and responsibility and authority to the Croatian agency for HANFA, so for the supervision of financial services and in this way very responsible must deal with assets that will not disappear in this way, but is still the property of each individual that pays into the funds. In this way, as counterpart Shuker said, it further allows the total liquidity to increase to more than 16 billion kuna, and that is then that stability and security of the system that in this way will indeed be able, within a certain time, to do all that is necessary for the functioning of a single country, indeed and to soak up. And when you look only at the business of voluntary pension funds then and how much property, that she was with the end of 2019. 112 billion kuna, that is a huge potential and that in that period, if well looked at, the yields of the A, B or C fund were from 5.43 to 13.2%, which suggests that the assets had increased by more than 14% since the end of the two and the beginning of 2019, respectively. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202848	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Steve Culey, gone, lost his right to speak, and will then speak as the next respected representative, Martin Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202849	The Honorable Chairman, Vice President of the Assembly, respected secretary of state with his associates. This is one in a series of laws that are passed to regulate and adapt to these extraordinary circumstances of the coronary virus. Naturally, pension funds are one huge financial potential and the government is thinking and reaching out to these financial instruments to make society work. Rarely, such laws as the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds so affect all layers of Croatian society or any other society affected by the Pension Insurance Act. Here, in the first row of the amendment of this law, reads this financial potential, reads the need for stronger control by the State Regulatory Agency, which I keep right and good so that any fractures do not occur. As regards the reforms themselves, or the entire system of adjustment in pension, pension systems, citizenship or regiments, it is difficult to follow what the ministry plans can through the plan of financial literacy, which is also very, very necessary, and I think it still needs to be potential, especially for young people, because you probably all had opportunities to talk when these young people come to the labour market to simply ask or to, with employers or with their loved ones, where they are provided, but on the other hand do not have a rational decision because they do not have enough information about it. Even through the education system itself, it wouldn't be a bad idea to strengthen that literacy. In the part that doesn't regulate this law, and I need to say, I think that this should be regulated by the Labour Act to enable more employers to work, in this way the fund would be filled, and individually for those people who have some additional jobs, it would create certain security so that if we were free market, if we were to run out of work, that they could, when and now we compare those who worked on the market for over 40 years, that their pensions are even bigger than those who worked briefly. As far as all these funds are concerned, the consequence of our lives in one rigid communist system is that people are under-the-counter because they've always been thought about, they devote themselves to these things. Croatia has chosen this time and this way it has chosen. It's good that these funds are stable, it's good that these funds are controlled, hope that these extraordinary circumstances will be as little as possible and that what happens next, and those pensioners who will go into retirement, that their pensions will grow bigger and bigger. This is important for the stability of the economy, it is important for social stability, it is important for economic and political stability. I believe that, here, the government is in all things, although these are extraordinary circumstances, so we have no experience of being extraordinary and acting, it's adapted to the state, in the sense of economic fixation of the situation, and in the sense of defending people from such a monster as the pandemic, and because of just such behaviour and leadership of the Republic of Croatia, we don't have any more power, let's say those fears that got dragged into people and the thing goes your time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202850	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202851	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I want to say in these five minutes on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds because I believe that this law is and I feel it as a law of certain possibilities that have been made available to us, meaning, the financial part and the government, but also to the funds, and I think at this point, we need laws that allow us to be able to do so. So, recalling the time of the first case of coronaryvirus in Croatia 25.2., from then on, just over 70 days of our reflections, individual, family and social change has changed, and today we are certainly all more ready for much less than we thought at that moment until that date, when we thought something would go past us and not be hit in the way that hit us, and then all the countries of the whole world. Simply, a situation that was certainly not planned when the budget was passed, nor when the budgets of all the economies were made individually, each in his family for this year 2020, we are probably congratulating her all the best, however, she is not who we wanted. And this law obviously gives us some opportunity to react at certain times. That marked these 70 days? So I think the mood of the citizens also clearly shows that the citizens understood what this government was doing, which is primarily to maintain stability. Stability and the political system itself, the stability of society, individually every family and man, health, the struggle for the health of each individual, and then, of course, what is very important in every life, these are the finances, the finances of the state, and then the finances of each individual. And those measures went parallel, so i.e. Continuing from the first day we faced this coronary virus until today when the measures that will be taken during this 5th month are being prepared. Let's remember the measure at the 3rd month, March, then in April and now, I say, in May. Do we know more today than we knew in March, surely yes. Do we know anything more about this virus, probably a lot more? We will likely find out at times ahead of us and much more that we do not know today. So, looking at the behavior of each of us in person, I believe that that, the beginning where we all wanted to contribute to the community, that this situation is easier and the best way to go, a little bit, how certain stories have started to appear in the political space, that's a little bit of anger, today we've heard, otherwise from all of the last 10 days by some opposition MPs, the worse-selected words, mostly difamation or negativity, and even here, and from one advocate that everything that's done is actually scandalous, so this law, as far as I've managed to hear from it, is scandalous. It's not scandalous, it can and can contribute to the future to be at least close to what we thought we could be, and that's the least we can do, stable, so we can pay off everything we have to pay off neatly. Unfortunately, in this time, we have also had to pay the salaries of employees working in private companies as a state. And it became like something normal and something expected and something that should happen regardless of the time. No, it's an extraordinary situation, and they gave these government measures something that we could look back a little bit now and say, it was good. Let's look at the number of unemployed at the Bureau, compared to what we once had, I remember, in 2011, over 400 grand, today 156 grand. We could have had half a million like Austria. Over half a million unemployed. Are we gonna have that at 9:00? I mean, I'm not the one who's gonna diversify and say it's gonna be okay. I come from the island, and I know how I feel today and how I felt 60 days ago, and I believe that now we have some optimism, and we believe that we are ready for everything that we haven't been prepared for in the past years when tourism grew 5 and 10% more every year, so we're unhappy, now we're ready for 30% and 40% of what we can get from that segment of the country at all, or let's say the economy, to somehow pass this situation. So a lot of what's written here and the possibilities that have been given through this law I support because I think we're going to need just that. I remember the minister's statement after all this started when he said clearly all the game, everything is possible and we'll all use whatever we can to keep this country stable, to keep the financial system stable and the banks, but also the state budget and local budgets, and on this congratulation, I did to him in the current circumstances as well as to the prime minister and the entire government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202852	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, and let's change Croatia, the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202853	Dear citizens. I keep saying that I'm only talking to you, and you're asking me why there are no MPs. So I'm not interested in them, you know, they listen to their party bosses, so I'm talking to you in the interest because, you know, until we got a few of us to the HANFA Parliament, the CNB, the monetary policy, the II pension column nobody was discussing, so you need to hear what's behind this proposal. What's this about? So the proposal is for this ruling coalition to come to Parliament with a bill that allows pension funds from the II pension pillar to be in debt with the CNB of as much as 5% to 15% of the value of their assets. It means 5 to 15 billion kuna in translation. So wait, please, is this the usual retirement fund business in the world to do something like this? It's not. They can do that, but they're not the main agents and participants. So how do some other countries work to save, say, their economies and their citizens in the midst of the crown crisis? So here we are from the party Change Croatia you know that we speak professionally with arguments, let's take the example of Great Britain. A month ago, she passed a law in her parliament that the British state could be in debt with the English central bank of the English central bank, up to £200 billion so that they could buy their central bank directly from the state. You see, that's what we consider a forbidden, incestuous relationship anyway. But what's the catch here, dear citizens? So the state could, so I expected a bill that would allow the Croatian state to issue government bonds and directly sell them to a single bank in a certain amount while this system crisis is going on. What percentage could be owed to the Croatian State, say, if it needs 20, 30 billion kuna? 0%. But you see here these representatives of the ruling coalition, if they don't want us with 0% they want to earn, who, the mandatory pension funds they have 4 and they're all in the hands of foreign banks. So these parties that so far rocked the Croatians, as you know, dear citizens, have been behind it for years. They sold all the banks, let the second pension column take over completely to the party, and that's why I'm saying that the second pension column is privatized. And not only that, you see he's in losses, he's in losses. The exact information that they've recorded the loss over the past month, a month and a half of about 10 billion kuna, that they've lost 801 million kunas on the Agreocor stocks, and then they say that's nothing, that's petty compared to the size of our assets. Then here we hear him say, well you know she needs to use mandatory pension funds, the second pillar they have is full of money, they have property. They don't even have money, they have money miserable. All their assets of 80 billion kunas are government bonds, and dear citizens are documents that are debt states, so she had papers. Therefore, the property you have there in the second pension column is not savings, they lie to you for years, they assure you is not savings. Listen to the experts talking about it. They want to save the mandatory pension funds that have been established so far the only ones who have earned it on fees and commissions of more than 8 billion kuna. So, respected citizens, I could put a lot more arguments in favor of this, and I'm telling you, from this pay phone, that it's high time that this nadal system that works against Croatia, which exhausts citizens, the economy that threw us on our knees, nothing here is going to stabilize. This government wants elections tomorrow. Why? Because as they manage the fear of this crisis, the virus is what they want to capitalize on. They've forced another three times five more times that fear into the bones of the citizens. So can I change Croatia for you tomorrow? Oh, I can't, so we're already deep into a recession without waiting for information, the debt will be the state, the strong fall in GDP, and therefore we change this unbearable situation with honest and professional people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202854	The next club of representatives is finally respected representative Ivan Shuker, club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202855	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. For the sake of truth and for future Croatian pensioners, therefore, the property of compulsory pension funds at 3.5 is 110 billion and 854 million, and when it comes to hearing the truth then we are not in the assembly. And it's not true that mandatory pension funds have lost over the past 10 billion kunas, they're simply facts. Why am I saying that? Well, because in these difficult situations, every one of us, no matter what political goals he has, must not play with the feelings of the security of Croatian citizens. It's a simple fact. So, if that were true, then the first to react, we should react to HANFA and we should react to the ministry. The second thing is not true that the Croatian state, through the Parliament, does not have the ability to control mandatory pension funds through the Parliamentary Finance Committee. So once a year they report to us, another thing, HANFA reports to us, one of the most important things about the work of HANFA is control and mandatory pension funds. So any representative can either head people of mandatory pension funds or the head man of the HANFA ask what he's interested in for the truth. 'Cause coming here to hit on and say that someone's lost 10 billion a month is very dangerous. The other thing, let's do that story about the CNB, I said, I may be one of the few MPs, if I should be banging on the CNB, then I should be banging, because while I was Minister of Finance, the situation, though, but it doesn't matter, however, simply as a responsible man I can't accept that someone says the CNB can do something, but it won't. So do you think the Prime Minister and the finance minister wouldn't agree with the CNB directly on funding, if they could. Here's information from fellow Zigman that the German Constitutional Court has issued a ban on the next 3 months borrowing the German state in their.../incomprehensible/... at the Bundesbank, so to their central bank. If the German Constitutional Court has made such a decision, and they are a member of the Eurozone, and we are the ones who claim to enter the Eurozone, and we have to stick to the rules, then whoever gave us the right to say, don't do it, do this. So wouldn't it be simpler for the Minister of Finance and the Government's representative to sit down with Governor Vujčić, agree, listen, old man, give us 20 billion kuna, if the interest is like this, it'll be like that, but it'll have to go to a combination of this. However, when we talk about maintaining pension funds, colleagues and colleagues, pension funds had income in January 564 million, in February 569, in March 574 and in April, logically, because it was the payment of those 3 250 kuna and many salaries fell and some people ended up in the stock market, so their income was reduced to 447 thousand kuna. And now this loan that the CNBs take, they take with the CNB, they owe whatever you want, and they buy government bonds, so we've ordered them to invest that much and that much money in the securities of the Republic of Croatia, they can't invest in anything else. If they want to make money for their customers, and these are future pensioners, then they have to buy bonds. They're practically only taking money early, buying bonds, and that loan is going to come right out of these revenues. Well, their annual income is about six billion kuna. Practically, in 2.5 years of their regular incomes, they return a loan on which they will have a certain profit. Now the question is, is it better, now, this lie should be eliminated, it's not anyone's funds from foreign banks, it's funds owned by Croatian citizens because it's the savings of Croatian citizens. Every citizen in, has, is kept, a special record of what has a stake that participates in... the funds, therefore, if the mandatory pension funds invest in bonds, on these bonds, will ultimately be the contribution of Croatian citizens to their account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are facts, and it's true, and we just can't afford to let ourselves, no matter how much sometimes, because of politics, because of this, we can't afford to spread misinformation, so ultimately, we Parliamentarians are here asking mandatory pension funds to invest money, to inform their potential members, which is II. A pillar of retirement, what their rights are and what they can accomplish. Therefore, this is a good move by the government, the Ministry of Finance and the CNB and the Ministry of Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202856	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Majda Buric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202857	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of HS, Honorable parliamentary representative Peric and respected parliamentary representatives of Boris and Šuker, can even greet you individually since we remain very few. So, thanks to everyone for the debate and what I have to sublime is that the aim of this law, which you have already mentioned, is that it's a stabilisation of public finances, a stabilisation of the value of government bonds, as well as the possibility of increasing liquidity to about 16 billion kuna. What I particularly want to point out once again is the fees, fees that we have reduced within the reform of the pension system, both entry and exit and control, which specifically means that by 2030, all of us who have an account in II will be in personal accounts. The pension rate remains around billions and 300 million kunas higher, which automatically means higher pensions for members of II. Retirement pillar. Also today, mandatory pension funds have paid 60 million kunas, redistributing all future pensioners who are members of II. The pension pillar, and also, is about the fees I was talking about. We also mentioned the financial literacy, which is very much to be worked on, and I would like to mention in this sense that the Ministry of Labour through Regos, or the Central Insurance Register, is implementing a project of MICs, or the Peace Centres, which will continue to be revived this year, and they are designed in fact to be a unique place where a person, regardless of whether she is employed or a future pensioner who will enter into retirement in a certain period, will receive absolutely all the information about the system of generational solidarity and about the system of individual capitalised savings and MICs will first be opened in the 4 largest Croatian cities, so Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Zagreb, and that is one of the species that we, as the Ministry of Labour, will influence raising financial literacy to one higher level. I know that financial literacy is a great deal of work for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, issued every year in February of the financial literacy bulletin, and I know that there is a lot of work in the UMFO, or mandatory pension funds, so they have great workshops conducted by Dr. Lucic and Barbić and what I mean to say in this sense is that in any case we need to keep going and appeal to the whole society as much as it really matters. It also mentions incentives to preserve jobs that are also being implemented as an economic measure through the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, and to preserve workers in employment due to this root crisis. This government provided 8.5 billion kuna for about half a million of our citizens to have the opportunity to gain, for the March month, it was an incentive of 3250 kuna, and in April and May it will be 4,000 kuna incentives. What needs to be mentioned in particular, which is already Mrs. Crescent's. Peric and pointed out, that at that amount, at 3250 and 4000 kuna respectively, come and contribute, so when we talk about it, then the country actually provides about 5,000 kuna, because so far the first pension column in which we pay 15% is paid almost 300 million kuna, when we talk about this support for the preservation of jobs, and in the second pension column relating to 5% of the contributions is paid nearly 100 million kuna. Also, I deny the untruths, not to tell lies that speak about losses, which the respected Dr. Lovrinović pointed out, if I'm not mistaken, so it's a complete misinformation, it's not true that mandatory pension funds lost 10 billion kuna, but the truth is that the amount was significantly, significantly smaller and that the crisis time we're in, so back in 2, 3 months, was moving in figures of about a billion, a billion and a half kuna. However, when we talk about the C category, C category where all people who have 5 years to retirement are legally required to be in that category has been in recent times, since the crisis has been growing by about 200 million kuna, and MIREX shows that only A category notes a slight drop from -0.55% and once again reminds me that in any case, the work of mandatory pension funds and their investments must not be seen as a sprint or a 100-metre race, but as a 40-year marathon. Why are we talking about 40 years? Because we all strive precisely for people, for people to stay on the labour market as long as possible, for the longer they work because, by doing so, the pension will be higher, which shows indicators of 70% of the share in the average salary, if we stay on the labour market for 40 and more years. Anyway, thank you all once again and that'll be all for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202858	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202859	Thank you, ma'am. Buric. Here's what I'd like to read for the public one more time about what we got as representatives and as members of the Committee on Finance, which is the result of the business of mandatory pension funds, where it's nice to say that net pension contributions have been paid in II. In 2019, they amounted to 6.7 billion kuna, while the payments from II were. The pillars are 1.2 billion kuna. Mandatory pension funds in 2019 earned their members 8.9 billion kuna, meaning that the total payment is 8.2% higher than the previous year. So that's the exact data that can confirm and whoever controls them, and primarily, here's HANFA, and all that's happening is exactly the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202860	Thank you very much. Then we would conclude the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, Thursday, 7 May at 9.30, and the first item will be the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. I wish you a pleasant rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-06-0.u202861	Final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 942, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 111 for and 1 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. I welcome you all. We're going back to work. Today we have four points on schedule, and we start with: - The proposal for a decision to appoint Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Law on State's Attorney's Office. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Justice gave a preliminary opinion on this proposal for a decision. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is the respected Drazen Bosnjakovic, minister of justice. Here you go.
