ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9659	The Honorable President, since the vote is on the way, and at first, you have amendments to the Law on Local Elections. I would ask for a break on behalf of the MOST Club and not for us to consult among ourselves, I would ask a group of ruling, ruling majority representatives to consult among themselves. Because what we can see for the last few years is starting to look like a circus. So, it's being announced as a reform all the time, there's going to be a reform, and as long as that reform comes and goes through the government, e-consultation and parliament doesn't stay even R from the reform, the type, I don't know, we now have a reform on local elections, on local and regional self-government. The situation in which the minister of the administration announces that it will be a huge reform eventually spreads through the ashes. Why? Because representatives of the ruling majority of parliamentary deputies say no, we will not be so much in reform. Nothing happens. You're going back to the deputy chief, and it was very concretely possible to act. At a specific level, you could cut into 130 municipalities, at a specific level, you could cut the ears with one move, you left it behind. At a concrete level, here's a proposal, instead of allowing 20% of all salary revenues to be spent, you could have put them to 15% of all incomes, so you would have reduced the number of earrings, one move, then it wouldn't have happened that Mr. Žavrnja would not, at the moment he stopped being, behaving a duty in the county or in his municipality, end up immediately in a state-owned company. It wouldn't have happened if Scissor from Omis had just ended up in a state facility. It would not have happened that Commissioner Runovic would have ended up in a state-run company as soon as he lost the election. The town of Malmo has 300,000 inhabitants and 100 employees, the town of Split 180,000 employees and 500 employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9660	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? No, I don't. Then we'll move on right away. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9661	I insist on taking a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9662	Well, I'll read you an article. 293.b. if you don't know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9663	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9664	Therefore, in the event of a request for a break, in accordance with the provision of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The President may approve the Rules of Procedure for a period of up to 5 minutes. "It can be approved and it does not have to be approved." That's what we agreed when we agreed to the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9665	Well, here, I would only ask you to reconsider whether in the record, it says in the Rules of Procedure that "you can and you don't have to", okay. But I think it really takes a break. The chance that they change the decision may exist even though it is difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9666	Comrade Petrov, come on, please, well, you said, you said what you had, people listened to you, and they would probably ask for a break to consult because you're calling now for others to consult, I didn't feel it caused much excitement, so then I moved on. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9667	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, I am also seeking a 10-minute break in support of my colleague Petrov. In fact, the fact is that any crisis is of course not only a crisis but also an opportunity. The fact is, too, that we announced everyone in pre-election time, including members of the ruling coalition of certain reforms, is the fact that we were presented here a few days ago with one wish, a list of beautiful wishes from the Ministry of Administration that predicted that, as you yourself said as a ruling coalition, a reform of the reconstruction and better organisation of local administrations and regional regional self-government. So what happened in the meantime are amendments that really all went back to the beginning. And what we talked about, about these modest savings, about some 100 million kuna a year, or 500 thousand kunas in the City of Zagreb, has been reduced again. And all those who believed that at least some reform had started, i.e. they should send a clear message to the public that unfortunately the coalition is complex in a way that will not be able to implement serious reforms because this shows that the government is forced to make concessions and that the government is forced to do things that do not lead to reforms but to one ordinary status quo in maintenance and that Croatia will continue to hyperther and stagnate in the next 3.5 years. I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9668	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9816	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Rada Boric, who will hold the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9817	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. One of the topics the Government of the Republic of Croatia refused to deal with in the past and this term is the topic of mental health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so in 2020, which will prove to be one of the most stressful and difficult years for a large part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, we entered without a National Strategy to improve mental health. Let me remind you that even before the pandemic of Covid was bound by the world, there was a clear prediction of the world health organization that depression by 2030 would be the most severe chronic disease in the world. So that was before the crown, and the crown has seriously threatened mental health around the world. To avoid confusion, it was at the very beginning of the pandemic that the threat and mental health were clear. In addition, after the 2003 SARS epidemic, studies showed a rise in suicide by as much as 30% in the years following the epidemic, PTSD growth, depression and anxiety disorders were recorded. So we knew what we could expect. Already the first studies in the early spring talked about the clear negative effects of the pandemic on the mental health of the population, increased anxiety, the rate of depression, the rate of OCP. The deterioration was seen in those who had previously suffered, but also in a population that had no mental disorder until then. Further development of the pandemic has shown that as many as 20% of Covid patients develop images of mental disorders. The extended duration of the pandemic, uncertainty, concern for their own health, as well as the health of the nearest, losses and deaths in the family and the surrounding environment are factors that cause psychological disturbances and sustain them and deepen them everywhere in the world. According to current estimates, even 10-15% of the population as a permanent reminder of the pandemic will have chronic and permanently impaired mental health. It is a particularly worrying survey conducted, i.e. Research at the University of Rijeka. According to the results, we have a significant increase in depression and anxiety among young people, but also a double frequency of suicidal thoughts. The recent unfortunate death of a doctor who has been treating Covid patients since the spring, the loudest and most tragic in a series of alarms that have long been ringing at the alarm, and we don't have a strategy, which the government has, however, passed, yet Plenkovic promises since 2016. We're pulverizing into a new epidemic where we'll be saved from the crown, but also from the incompetent government and the Command might save the vaccine, for the one that follows us, for depression and suicide, the vaccines are gone. And that's why we're calling on the government, Minister Beros and Staff to start actively taking care of the mental health of the population. A clear plan and strategy for the next period should be adopted, focusing on 3 clear objectives. Prevention of mental illness involving mental health experts and within the Staff itself, mental health experts within the Scientific Council, school psychologists, supportive groups in the population. We also need increased availability of professional assistance and support, development of psychiatry in the community, teams within schools, health homes, universities. The availability of psychiatrists and mental health professionals outside hospitals, the development of mobile teams, the availability of psychotherapy, care for chronically ill patients who must not belong to the exclusive family environment. And finally, care and struggle with the Stigmo. Talk about mental health, stop ignoring the fact that mental health is an elemental part of health. We need policy-positive discrimination of mental patients, for example. employment. And finally, the policy of deinstitutionalizing psychiatry by modeling Scandinavian models. We need to start worrying about the mental health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9818	Thank you. Mr Kresimir Ackar will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9991	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected fellow MPs. The topic I want to talk about today is the role of breeders and teachers in the educational system in these challenging times of the moment. I will speak from several perspectives that determine me personally and professionally, the perspective of politicians, the perspective of former educational staff and the perspective of parents. With all due respect to people who today carry the greatest burden of their profession, which is what healthcare professionals want to remind themselves of another group of workers who are dealing with the demanding moments of the present situation by caring for our youngest, which are teachers and educators. Both children and we learn about the new situation in which the world has found itself, adapt to new circumstances, and try to maintain stability at all levels. One of the key conditions for maintaining the stability of the present time, but also for the future, is to care for children and their health in the broadest sense of the word. Taking care of children, their health and education would not be possible if there were no key people in the educational system, educational workers, educators, teachers and professional associates in our kindergartens and schools. They're here every day, in school and kindergarten, occasionally on the line, and then again in direct work with our children. And they were forced to adapt their work to new circumstances. Physical closeness with a small child replace physical distance, find new ways to create a safe potential and healthy environment in the educational group or classroom. Aware of their importance, the Ministry of Science and Education has joined amendments to the Regulation on Progress and this is one of the concrete moves aimed at improving their position in society. By listening to the profession, anonymous reports that have often been misused and have had a negative impact on the reputation of our teachers and teachers. Many preschool studies have shown the importance of a child’s educator for cognitive, social, and emotional development. If so in non-pandemic times, then we can only assume the importance of the role of educators and teachers in these new pandemic circumstances. We have long known that kindergartens are not just institutions where children are kept while parents are working because preschool is a social investment thaton the one hand harmonizes the professional and private commitment of parents, and on the other hand, quality prepares children for a further education system, and prevents social exclusion of children and families. Educational workers have been shown not only to cope with different challenges but also to learn and adapt. It is a great help to parents, but also to the community and society in general. In doing so, we must not forget that they too are different, that they may be in a risky group, that they are concerned about their health or family health. Nevertheless, everyday there are, in kindergarten, in school and daily provide children with what is most important and necessary for their development, it is a common game with peers, learning, communication and understanding. As for the current situation on today, we have about 1.4 covid of positive employees, and about 0.47% of positive covid students. Today, the C-model course is performed in all secondary schools throughout Croatia, and the higher classes of primary schools in Varazdinska, Istria, Međimurje and the Primorje-Gorski County crossed the line. And that's why from this place at the time of the near end of this demanding school and pedagogical year, I would like to thank all the educational staff at their work, their care for children, for their efforts to neutralize the pandemic consequences as much as possible. I believe in commitment, professional responsibility and motivation of those who have chosen an interest in working with children and children regardless of the challenges they face as a profession or perhaps because of the challenges they face and who are willing to address. That the government also recognized their extraordinary efforts and the work showed an increase in salaries to educators from 1.1.2021 out of 4% despite GDP decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u9992	Thank you, too. We're moving on to taking a position on behalf of the club of MPs and independent representatives, and when we're done with this part, we'll be checking the council room for ten minutes, so you know more or less what's next. The first is Mr. STipo Mlinarić on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10046	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. We often forget how many needy and left behind in our society who do not only have basic provisions of life but rarely have a roof over their heads. Who cares about them? Few, but I dare say no one cares about them so devotedly, tirelessly, and lovingly as volunteers of the Association “Cap of Goodness. ” On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the draft which we mark on December 19th this year in today's presentation of the position of the club Homeland Movement I will read a letter from one of the volunteers of this valuable association whose founder is Pater Cvek. He often used to say, “We went and go to those who no longer go.” There are many earthquake stories on the road “Cape of goodness”, for example, one of our protégé who lives alone who is poor in health and who has no one but his sister who lives in distant Australia, who he has not seen or heard for 20 years because of spending and great moisture in his apartment was to go to a home for the elderly and powerless. By learning it through tears he spoke, but this is my home. At that time, I returned the words of Cardinal Kuharic, never leaving home without grief or country. And a recent case, our protégé, after being healed in a mental hospital, could go home, expecting joy in his eyes, the doctor was not surprised by his grief that he had to leave the hospital, humbly begging him to stay in the hospital, for at least another week. He said I only have one often miserable meal in my kitchen, so I'm hungry, and I have three meals at the hospital. In fundamental human rights, the first right is the right to life, and the second right is the right to dignity. Many who die, who are without their own, end up knowing where and often only by some count. Another example, an old mother in the center of Zagreb for weeks watched the helpless corpse of a dead son fall apart until neighbors reported that the apartment felt uncomfortable smells and then the authorities broke into the apartment and found an immeasurable mother hungry and broken by pain and suffering. The “Cap of goodness” thanks to her helpers has managed to build a tomb for her protégés who have no one, so our protégés are bathed with dignity, we escort them and sign their names on the tombstone. Those names will read with us when he who judges us all according to our deeds comes. We know you have good salaries, we know you have many diplomas, we know you can speak a lot of even other people's languages, but do you have what's most sacred, most powerful, and most beautiful as a man, and that's love. Do you have love? For love of evil laws does not confess; they block her way; love breaks them. Love loves every brother of man, and mankind despises. Love does not feed and bear witness to great sweet talk but rather feeds and testifies by its works. Love does not care for itself but cares for those he loves. Love doesn't care about its ego because it doesn't have an ego. Love doesn't doubt victory. Therefore, the "Cap of Goodness" requirements for powerless, tortured hunger, sickness and freezing are most urgent to adopt the provisions of the laws guaranteeing, first three meals a day, second water, electricity and heating, third records of all the endangered and powerless and their circumcision and protection, fourth of every homeless person staying in a closed and warm, fifth regular monitoring of the implementation of those activities because the medical manuals of the Croatian Medical Assembly warns clearly that "A poor diet is being developed in stages. In the first stage there is a change in the level of nutrients in the blood and tissues, followed by changes in enzyme levels and then the symptoms of disease and death occur. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10047	Thank you, Mr. Mlinaric. I mean, it's an interesting and difficult subject, but I have to interrupt. [[Intruder Mlinarić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr. Predrag Štromar to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10145	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, we have witnessed floods of epic proportions that hit the village of Kokorići in the area of Vrgorec, and so far this area has been known to affect floods, but these proportions are not remembered by locals. A hundred people from their homes can only boat to and from them. A dozen houses will need a complete renovation, in some places water is deep over 7 meters. Many houses, garages, greenhouses are flooded, one-year plantations of numerous cultures have been destroyed, real damage has yet to be determined for many years. Unfortunately, the extent of the damage to this region of valuable people who for generations of life of agricultural production will be known only when the water is fully withdrawn, it is time for the state, as in previous cases, to take responsibility and commitment to help. No one can be forgotten without any compensation. After the water is withdrawn and the damages are summed up, it is only then that we all have a great deal to do, help and mitigate the consequences of this disaster. We expect the government to bring emergency measures to help the population as soon as possible in order to take care of the injured families during this short period and preserve some of their assets. It is also necessary to adopt a long-term recovery plan that should be started immediately after the water is withdrawn and allows access to damaged facilities. But what will only solve the problem of floods in the long term in this area is the construction of a system of deforestation, which is within the authority of Croatian waters. They say an environmental impact study has been commissioned, and for a project worth around 100 million kuna, money from EU funds will be sought. But we have to keep in mind that people can't wait. The aid and recovery needs to be started immediately and what may be more important, although we know it is difficult to predict and control natural disasters in the future, so I expect Croatian waters to make an assessment of the risks of potentially floodous areas in order to at least partially prevent such situations in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10146	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10176	Thank you President, fellow MPs and MPs. Today, in a free speech, I will comment on this indescribable ease of existence within the HDZ and parliamentary majority, these 76 people who breathe and who vote as if they were one body, as if they were all part of a single Borg. They rebel when they get their corrupt labels and say there's no way they'll let that happen, on the other hand they obediently and transparently refused to set up an investigative commission. They say that the request was too broadly drawn up, that it wanted to determine what was wrong with the system, would represent almost one new anti-corruption strategy as if we were not good at what we have now, not only if it is not good but it stands out soon, and the new one in preparation is not even close. What actually moved me to say is two information available from the media, so I wonder if it's living in some parallel reality? The first information is that USKOK gave up the requirement to Nadana Vidosevic after 7 years. The trial took away 39 million kunas worth of property which, according to the expert's initial opinion and findings, was thought to have been illegally acquired. It turns out that we can't trust the findings and opinions of the witches not only when the artists sign off on Tomislav Sauche, but also when they're artificially worth 26 real estate and 444 art, and only their value weighs slightly more than 15 million kuna. It turns out that witches can't count their entry and exit accounts, so the total disproportionate amount of only 9 million kunas. I say everything because neither will it be taken away because of the practice that when the benefit is obtained by a criminal act greater than disproportionately, then this disproportionate in practice is not taken away. Indeed, with the system absolutely everything is fine. Another example is the fact that USKOK has given up the art of 5 million kunas believed to have been hidden in Goran Puklin's trunk by Dragan Kovacevic, it is the state's attorney's wife, so the prosecutor who wrote the indictment against Agrokor. It is logical to accept the interpretation of the state's attorneyship in order to double the cost of the artisan, so that the bills in that art should be destroyed, and the damage would be of greater benefit. But what concerns us is that they're willing to pay that amount of skill that's twice as much, so the defense is willing to pay 10 million kuna to prove that everyone involved in the Janaf affair is innocent. No one wonders where a state prosecutor's wife got 10 million kuna for one of these. Indeed, with the system, we are absolutely fine. It can be concluded that with the system everything works if you are part of that system because it is clearly governed by the rule “no borg against the Borg. ” The same DORH, the same USKOK, did not even consider the possibility to launch an investigation against those ministers who wrote the Agrokor Act and were members of a so-called so-called "Arcoor Law". borg groups, stakeholders, illegal groups, not informal ones as he often likes to be called a government. This same USKOK, DORH or any other body does not consider that anything was controversial with those ministers who came and ate at the time of the first lockdown, drank at the same club Dragan Kovacevic where the accounts were not made, but during the same time, some state inspections closed down our businessmen and their catering facilities. It's the state of affairs it is today. And in vain, they call upon their muscles and tell us out of opposition that we attack them unfoundedly, that all our attempts are in vain to prove something that should be proved to belong, so your resistance is in vain. No. It's not the ones who watched "Star Wars" who knew what the fate of the Borg was like there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10177	Thank you, too. And now by 13, we're almost at the polls for today, up to 13 and 45 minutes followed by the city hall. Thank you. I'll see you at 13.45. It's 1:00 P.M. Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic will be the position of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10193	Your Honor. Today I will talk about the Croatian Post Office, the Croatian Post Office with which many citizens have been having problems lately. The word says Croatian, the word assumes ours, so this example of HP and its functioning or its failure can be seen as a metaphor of the functioning of state institutions in this crisis situation. The first thing a person can notice when entering HP is that the number of counters and the number of employees he sees there is certainly not equal to the number of people who will be available to him in terms of providing him with the requested service. You see counters there, you see people think you're calculating quickly in your head because you're in a hurry forever, you think I'll do it now. But no, they're not here to be at your disposal. They have their own jobs. Another thing a man will notice when he enters HP is the new digital system, those monitors that reveal to you who you are, and people will naively think that it makes it easier for him to access that same clerk the same counter. But then when you count that three men are in front of you in your line A, all of a sudden you'll get into your row C, and then B person, and you'll realize that you don't know anything, so the number in front of you will disappear, so you'll immediately get in line and you'll wish for that good old line where we've all been standing in the tail and where you could know exactly when you'll get your turn. Digitalization hasn't helped in every situation, and it's expensively paid. But now allow me, after these opening remarks, to come up with a key problem that is why I'm talking about HP today. We could read various media inscriptions and we could see on various social networks that many of our citizens are very concerned and revolved about what is happening to HP. Their packages didn't arrive or didn't arrive in time, they couldn't trace them, their business died, and all the objections that were sent were serious and on the spot. But let me draw attention to one thing that has not yet been highlighted, which is my personal experience and which is a serious problem. Namely, I was one of those Croatian citizens who didn't get their package on time. I sent an angry inquiry to whoever was supposed to send this package thinking he had overlooked doing the same to find out that the package was actually sent in time. Because we worked on transparency and introduced a system called Track&Trace that we can check where our shipment is, began to follow the picturesque journey of his package to discover that after 10 days he had not moved from place. But after that, two days later, I discover that he arrived and I get a message from HP that he is in a central post office in Branimir, not as usual in my home mail. Well I think maybe they delivered wrongly, I can leave as many citizens go risking their health at the post office instead of having these packages delivered to their home doors as it should be, to get to their package. And where do we come up with the key problem of what's going on and what hasn't been articulated yet? I find that my package has been sleeping there for three days or so, and I have to pay for the three kuna pension. Of course, three swears to me, because I'm privileged and fortunately not so much a problem, but I'm meant to pay for my pension because I didn't get the package in time because it was a HP mistake, not me who didn't pick up that same package when I was supposed to. So here I ask the question, how many of our citizens have been suspended in this procedure not delivering packages in the given deadlines that are traditionally known to be wrinkled in December, but we are not traditionally preparing for the same situation, and where will all this money end? Will the competent institutions that will receive the funding reports Post submit a report to Croatian citizens who have been forced to pay their packages for what they are not responsible for? And that's why HP may be a metaphor for the functioning of state institutions. You will make mistakes, and their costs and their consequences will be borne by the Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u10194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u19185	Let's go to the next point, it's: - Selection, appointments and resolutions; I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, appointments and administrative affairs, the distinguished representative, Nada Murganic, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u19186	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here is just one brief report from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, which was adopted by the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member and deputy member of the Management Board for the Development of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, appointed as a member of Marko Pavić and Deputy Member Marin Lerotić. Just perhaps one little clarification, this was sent on request from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of the Management Board and the Executive Working Group for the development of a national development strategy, and this decision was to be taken again since 28 September 2017 for the purpose of changing the members of the decision, and it is related to the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament of 22 July 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u19187	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions for this point. Here, with this we've exhausted all the points of the agenda and I'm concluding this fourth session of HS. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and continue with the work of the new 5th session of the Croatian Parliament. The first item will be the Proposal for a decision to adopt a Council Decision on a system of EU own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU EURATO. Thank you. Have a nice, good night. Session completed at 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u21795	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID card, second reading, P.Z. No. 13. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Pavić, the promoter did not accept it, so we must vote on the amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we are going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs, 124 for, and 1 abstentions were voted, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card was passed. Report on the implementation of the HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 is submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 33 abstentions and 17 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working body. The conclusion was also proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, however, it is essential to vote on it, this one, because this proposal has been accepted, and the SDP has asked for this report to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22346	Thank you, Mr. President. Before voting on this proposal on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I would like to ask a brief pause, among other things, to emphasise once again the importance and need of the establishment of this investigation committee. As I was saying during the debate about him last week, there is an interesting parallel between Croatia and Germany. In Germany, a major scandal took place this year, potentially deeply corrupt, involving both German government president and finance minister. In the German Bundestag, the opposition proposed the establishment of an investigative committee on the case and regardless of whether the case was already being conducted, the majority did not object and the Bundestag established in Germany an investigative commission to examine, among other things, whether there was an impact on the media, whether there was leaks of information, whether there was political pressure on the bodies that needed to investigate this process. The Bundestag can, the Croatian Parliament can't. And that's exactly what we've been looking for in this proposal to set up this investigation committee. To carry out the procedure, to determine whether there is pressure on the bodies to conduct an independent investigation, whether there is leaks of information. Or the fact that Mr. Kovacevic, when he got the tip, threw his cell phone into the Sava, just a case, not a rule. Unfortunately, ruling doesn't want that. Unfortunately, by ruling neither do we want to try to see in Croatia whether our legislative process, or our regulations that should apply to research and conduct investigations, improves Why, I leave it to everyone [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to personally conclude. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22347	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? My colleague Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22348	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to actually comment on why this investigative commission is important. In particular, when we launched this initiative and began in the Assembly to talk about problems within the judiciary, problems within investigations and problems, in fact the inability to detect and sanction corruption within the system itself, we began to see people from the judiciary, but also other systems connected and we began to get very clear evidence that referred to ways of manipulating cases and assigning cases which in many cases did not follow the rule of automatic and random allocation of the case. For this reason, I will repeat one of the words of one of the judges who came to us, which is that you managed to establish an investigative commission, we could come to speak because it would be our duty and we wouldn't have to hide behind the anonymity that has been imposed on us because if we report corruption or suspicion of illegality we are sanctioned within the collectives. If an investigative committee were allowed all of what we know we could say publicly, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would know that and that would trigger an avalanche among all those honest judges in Croatia who want to change things within the system and point to irregularities. And I answered that, precisely because you said that the reason for an investigative commission that would allow such things to come out, that's why HDZ didn't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22349	A colleague of Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22350	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break to further explain why we cannot accept this commission at the Representatives' Club. So we said that it is contrary to the law on investigating committees, that it is part of this commission and the issues to be explored and the objectives to be achieved are general, that this commission would in fact be a working group for amending laws defining the conduct of criminal proceedings in the Republic of Croatia. So far, HS has always set up investigative committees with a specific goal, not one general commission. We too were open and open to such a commission. Now, my colleague Grbin has made it clear that this commission would be able to investigate how and how Mr Kovacevic learned that he was being conducted against the reconnaissance and to throw his cell phone into the Sava, which is what he should have said, that this commission was being investigated by Janaf. However, the law makes such an approach impossible because no investigative commission can be established for the issues for which the court proceedings have been opened. If we don't agree with that, we change the law, but as long as the law is like this, we can't approach it. And the second thing, we asked and we suggested that the presidents of HS' working bodies, and very interestingly these working bodies were chaired by representatives of the opposition except for Mr. Vukas, no one called the thematic session at which the session could ask all the answers to the questions that this commission would ask, so it could be done simply not to be done, it would be difficult to deal with first of all with this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22351	Thank you very much. We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22352	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238. A Rules of Procedure because it offends the intelligence of our MPs in the assembly. If HDZ really wanted to support the establishment of an investigative commission, then he would have sent one single amendment or more to whom he would try to correct the content. But that wasn't the problem. You don't want to investigate corruption, and that's the only reason why you're against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22353	Thank you very much. You know for yourself that insulting intelligence does not stand in art. 238, so we'll give you a warning because this was a replica. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22354	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm calling in an article. 238 for the reason that a colleague insulted opposition representatives who are at the head of the committee not to convene meetings by calling them in such a way that they would not work. I will say that specifically the Environment Committee does not have a thematic session after four times on the agenda we had citizens' proposals to discuss at the the thematic session on the model of waste management and waste management centres because your majority of them crashes every agenda when... /
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22355	Comrade Bencic, your time is up. I've excluded you from getting a warning, it wasn't an insult to the MPs but just a finding, it's really not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22356	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here I am going to connect to my colleague Bencic. I don't think she's hurt her rules of procedure, but it's up to you to assess. But speaking of Rules of Procedure, isn't it said that during the special working conditions during the operation of the coronary pandemic, we cannot have thematic sessions of individual committees. I don't know if a single thematic session was held by Mr. Bačić, but I don't think so. So please explain whether there are any specific rules depending on the occasion or how HDZ fits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22357	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreshković, it is not true that there were no thematic sessions, even one thematic session of a club of representatives was held under certain measures of course, but they were maintained, but this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure so I will have to give you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22358	I'm sorry my question is, which is exactly what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22359	Please sit down. You can't behave like this. You're getting a warning. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22360	Mr. Bacic injured Rule 238, but also several other articles. Namely, it calls for working bodies, and it has not told the Croatian public that the anti-corruption council that I am president of has not yet been established because we do not have outside members, we cannot call a thematic session on the subject of this corruption which we witness daily by HDZ and the ruling, and also no investigative committee or any parliamentary body has powers An investigative committee. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, fellow Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22361	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grumo, but this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He asked for a thin one, he made his arguments that were not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it well and you get a warning too. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22362	My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238th, where he says to us parliamentary deputies not to trim our committee of our parliamentary representatives to influence the independent bodies of politicians. So di archi and banči rather than through the judicial bodies where the judiciary affects because the godfather's relationship in the Croatian judiciary, let's say Sheparović godfather Bačićev,... /The speakers speak at the same time./... and we are authorized, this Assembly. Dismiss us if you behave like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u22363	Comrade Bulj, please receive a warning you have also misused the Rules of Procedure. Now let's go to the vote of the motion for a decision on the establishment... /The Intruder doesn't understand. No, you've already had a break, just one break, when we change the Rules of Procedure to tomorrow. Let us therefore vote on a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine interference, disabling or other illicit influences on independent investigations (including the stage of reconnaissance) and the processing of cases of corruption, organised and economic crime. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs voted, 52 were in favour, 76 against therefore no decision was taken as proposed by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u24393	Dear President HS. About this topic... it is about the most important topic in 2020. Unfortunately, Croatia has not been coping with this biggest crisis since the Homeland War. I must stress here that it was not mentioned in the debate that Croatia is the worst in the EU and the worst in Europe in the economic situation or the economic crisis caused by the coronary epidemic. We're not the last ones we've ever been to the last, but we're the worst. Furthermore, the incidence of the crown virus in Croatia is among the highest in the world. Therefore, the Civil Protection Centre and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are obviously not able to cope with this situation at all, nor is Croatia being taken care of in an adequate way when we talk about health care. These are things that Croatian citizens need to know, so we are currently the worst, worst in Europe and in the health situation and in the economic situation. And I have not heard from the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, of the ruling in general, that something will change in this regard. So the situation doesn't change. And here I have to point out one more thing that is not related to this agenda point, which is the item of the agenda that will be in our extraordinary session, if we have waited a few decades to declare the IGP I think we could have a nice discussion in peace, regardless of what Italians who are clearly mentors of Andrej Plenkovic in Europe insist on a quick declaration, we could have discussed it peacefully in a regular session, for example. in the 1st month, not running in front of the ore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u24394	Okay. Is there another club on the way? If not then, it puts forward a proposal for a conclusion on the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the Civil Protection Staff not supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 49 were in favour, 76 against therefore no conclusion was reached, as proposed by the Bridge's Club of Representatives. The proposal of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030 is proposed by the Government, the debate is closed. On the basis of Art. 11 I am voting on the proposal of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030. Please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs voted, all voted in favour, and thus the National Strategic Framework against Cancer was adopted by 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25357	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, I'm looking for a break to reconsider the importance of this interpretation. The escape from reality will not make this reality any better, nor more beautiful, and it is disastrous for Croatian citizens at the moment for the number of infected and sick and the number of hospitalized, unfortunately and by the number of deceased. The debate led to small hours of night in which it showed that the government had no answer to any of the key questions and problems raised by the opposition and not only opposition but also medical profession, healthcare professionals, health workers, our top scientists and epidemiologists. What we're looking for is to take responsibility. Unfortunately, neither after the discussion in HS nor the government showed that they were willing to change direction. And this has nothing to do with the matter of political reckoning within the Parliament itself anymore, nothing to do with the desire of the opposition to show its knowledge and muscles. It has to do with the desire to protect the national interest and rights of Croatian citizens to what you are instructed in your programme, and you cannot prove it in practice, which is safety. This time we talk about the safety of life, security and the right to health care, which is not adequately secured not only by the covid but also by the patients and those who need quality health care, which unfortunately does not exist in the system. And she's gone because we didn't make good use of the summer to prepare the system for what we knew in the early spring that she was waiting for us in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25358	And my colleague Hrelja, you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25359	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break in which everyone should reconsider what will be written in the encyclopaedia of the Croatian Lexicographic Institute in connection with the events this year, whether it will be in this encyclopedia that records all the historical facts of the Croatian people, that we have a breakdown of the health system, that the headquarters is difficult or in no way dealing with this covid crisis, that we have terrible debts in the health system, and that we are also thinking about abolishing the preventive dental this protection where a billion and 200 million and all new initiatives that go to harm citizens are saved. So let us examine ourselves and our own conscience whether we function well as a society, whether it is justified to panic among citizens, whether it is justified, whether it is justified, whether it is justified and whether it will happen in the Encyclopedia that we are in the 5th month, that in the 5th month, the Government of the Republic of Croatia declared victory over the Crown. Please imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25360	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If not, in accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia on special circumstances caused by the coronary virus is refused. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Who's restrained? So it refuses, that's the conclusion. Who's restrained? And who's against it? A total of 125 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were against, 49 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. This is what we've exhausted the vote for today. Now we're going to take a break from 15 minutes, so until 11.25, and we're going to start discussing the final draft amending and supplementing the House Loan Subsidisation Act. At one o’clock or 13 o’clock are free speeches, and as I announced tomorrow we continue our work. I'm just asking the committees to hold their sessions. Thank you very much. It's 11:12 p.m. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, second reading, P.Z. No. 64. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by Agent Davor Find. The promoter didn't accept it, so we have to vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the membership law in tourist communities. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? A total of 127 MPs and deputies voted, 112 for, 3 abstentions and 12 against, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25695	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:32 AM]] The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. It is an emergency procedure and it means that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? With us is the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property, Mr. Darko Horvat, who will give us this final bill, please. It's about Bill No. 86.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25696	Thank you, Honorable Vice President HS, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. One of the key challenges of young people and families today is resolving the housing issue. It is not news that young families, especially in the beginning of their business activities, have the best facilities to start a family and start quality life in the family or partner community, while lacking financial resources, lack of financial resources prevents the choice of housing solutions with which they would be satisfied. Before I briefly explain these changes, I would like to remind you that this is just one of the programmes to support the resolution of the housing issue of young people in the implementation of the APN public institutions, the Agency for Socially Encouraged City of Dubrovnik, the Agency for Socially Encouraged City of Koprivnica, the Agency for the Socially Encouraged Apartment of the City of Rijeka and the Public Institution of the City of Varazdin. Anyone in the beauty of helping to resolve housing issues can find some opportunities. Socially encouraged housing shall be carried out by building apartments or residential buildings organised in such a way as to achieve a meaningful use of public and other means of covering the cost of the return of those funds, enabling the sale of apartments with a ring payment on more affordable terms than interest and payment deadlines, and enabling the rental of built-in apartments with the possibility of buying-in of the same. One of the legislative tools to help young people was introduced in 2011. By adopting the Law on subsidisation and the State guarantee of housing loans published in the National Journal of the European Union No. 31 of 2011 This started with the implementation of measures to help citizens to meet the possibilities of this legislative framework, as well as their wishes. Subsidisation of housing loans taken by citizens at business banks for the purpose of resolving the housing issue has been carried out. As a result of the sudden loss of income, citizens would not be able to repay those housing loans. The law had a period of validity until 31 December 2012 and unfortunately is not extended. A half of the total amount of the instalment or annuity of the loan was subsidized in the first 4g. Payments. The grant of loans to citizens could have been requested in accordance with the published ads in April 2011 and March 2012. During the year 2011 1462 applications were granted and in 2012 791. After the expiry of this law, citizens continued to show significant interest in supporting the settlement of the housing issue through subsidisation of housing loans. The Government therefore considered the possibility and needs and adopted the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, and adopted and published them with the support of HS 2017, which continued the subsidy programme in a slightly amended form. It entered into force on 15 July 2017 and experienced certain amendments in 2018 and 19. The law was passed for the purpose of encouraging the demographic restoration of society, urban regeneration of the settlement, and reducing the emigration of young families. The law prescribes helping citizens resolve housing issues by buying an apartment or a house or building a house by subsidising a housing loan. During 2017 the funds secured in the state budget are subsidized half of the total amount of the payment or annuity of the loan in the first 4g. payments for housing loans granted to subsidisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Subsidisation was carried out in a way that took place in the first 5 years. pay part of a monthly meal or annuity depending on the development index in which the city or municipality of the applicant is located on the day of publication of the public call. In particular, as from 2018. the subsidisation for residential credit is 5.g. and ranged from 30 to 51% of annuity depending on the index of development of a particular municipality or city. An application for subsidisation of residential loans shall be submitted by citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who meet the conditions for obtaining a residence credit with a credit institution, i.e. banks not older than 45 years and whose spouse or non-marriage partner, life partner or informal life partner does not own an apartment, or house or which owns only one apartment or house, which he sells for the purchase of a larger apartment or a larger house. In the event that the applicant or family member of his or her family has established a disability greater than 50% of the physical damage, the credit subsidy period shall be extended by 2 years. For the purpose of fostering demographic recovery, the loan subsidy period is further extended by 2 years for each live birth, or adopted child, if that child is born or adopted during the loan subsidisation period. The law was adjusted over time, so today the duration of the subsidy is extended by 1 year for each minor member of the household at the time of the conclusion of the subsidisation contract. Therefore, subsidisation per child, a member of the applicant’s household, is further extended, which has not been completed in 18 years at the time of the conclusion of the subsidisation contract. The subsidisation of credit is granted for the purchase of an apartment or house, i.e. the construction of a house with a valid building act, i.e. with a valid instrument for the use of an apartment or house. The price of real estate taken as maximum for the calculation is 1500 euros in kuna equivalent to the average exchange rate of the CNB per square metre of the net useful area of the apartment or house. The highest amount of credit that can be considered for subsidisation is 100 000 euros in kuna equivalent to the CNB average exchange rate on the date of payment of the loan and whose repayments are not less than 15 years. The funds for law enforcement shall be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation and operational implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the APN. The decision to grant a loan subsidisation shall take the APN after the decision and documentation submitted to it by the selected credit institution has shown that the conditions laid down for that purpose have been met by law. The previous implementation of the law in 2017 adopted 2399 requests, of those received, approved 2299, which means that we rejected 100 applications. In the most developed 8th group of units of local self-government, 66.28% of the approved requirements were realised, in the 7th total of 11.83, in Group 10.49, in Group 3.78, in the 4th total 4.39%, in the 3rd total 1.98, in Group 0.95 and in the 1st group of development only 0.3% of the approved requirements. In 2018, 3033 applications were received, and 2944 contracts were granted, and 89 were rejected or cancelled or those contracts were terminated. According to the 2018 Development Index in the 8th group, 56% of the approved requirements were realised, in 7. 12.65, at 6. 13.22, five o'clock. 5.42, four o'clock. Six-six, three o'clock. 2.62, at 2. One-two-two and one-two. 0.98% of all approved applications. In units of local self-government with a lower development index, there was an increase in the number of applications. In the 1st group from 7 to 29 approved requests, which is an increase of 266%, in the 2nd group from 20 to 48 approved requests, which is an increase of 71%, in the 3rd group from 47 to 78 approved requests, which is an increase of 32%. In the 4th group from 102 to 204 approved requests, which is a 56% increase, while in the 8th group, the number of requirements realised decreased by 15%. In 2019 4260 requests were received, 4150 of them were granted, and 110 were rejected, cancelled or the contract was terminated. The 2019 statistics show that the average age of those receiving subsidies is 33 years and the average monthly war or annuity is 385 euros, which is 2890 kuna, of which the monthly subsidy is 130 euros or 975 kuna. Furthermore, the average amount of the subsidised loan is 69 500 euros or 521 250 kuna, which will pay the average of 21 years. In 2019, the average nominal annual interest rate is 2.4%, which is half a percentage point lower than 2018 and almost 1 percentage point lower than 2017. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the In the second round in the autumn of the 9th month, 4561 requests were received, 4235 were granted, 4235 loans or requests were granted while other requests were either in addition or would be rejected. Therefore, in the period from September 2017 to the end of 2020, this measure of housing has been taken care of, or more than 17,000 families who have secured their home in the process, and more than 2,400 children have been born in those families using subsidised interest or war, thus achieving the right to additional subsidisation of an additional 2nd g. It is nice to see that from September 2019 since this measure or this concept applies until June 2020. in families benefiting from the subsidy, more than 5700 children who are not older than 18 years of age are reported, which additionally ensures subsidisation, in an additional one-year-old subsidisation. From September 2017 to 2020 In the context of the subsidy scheme, subsidies totalling EUR 250 million were paid to the total of EUR 471 million, EUR 362 less for the refund of the subsidies paid in accordance with Article 1(1) of the basic Regulation. 24th Law and, according to years in the following amounts, 2017 2 million 414 thousand kuna, in 2018 41 million 689 thousand kuna, in 2019. 73 million 794 thousand kuna, and so far in 2020 a total of 132 million 573 thousand kuna. The changes you have on your desk today were made in response to the existing citizens' interest in resolving the housing issue through a subsidized housing loan, which refers to the following. Regulation of the extension of the law until 31 December 2023. in which the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estates publishes public calls for each calendar year. It is not approved to subsidise loans to applicants who have obtained this right earlier, in order to ensure the effective use of State budget resources. The status of underage children approved for additional subsidisation as existing members of the household is defined. The period within which the borrower and members of the household are required to have a registered residence shall be adjusted. They shall also be arranged in cases where the payment of subsidies is not necessary, and they shall be extended to the sale of the apartment or house in the event of the construction of a larger house or the purchase of a larger apartment. For this purpose, in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, it is ensured in 2021. 263 million and 500 thousand kuna, of which 213 million and 500 thousand kuna for payment of subsidies from commitments incurred until 2021 and 50 million kuna for new subsidies to be granted in 2021. For 2022 and 2023. An additional 50 million kuna is secured per year. I have no doubt that the response will be excellent, and many families will find themselves in the implementation of this law, and today we announce the first next competition in the spring of 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25697	Thank you, too. No, no, don't leave, you have a lot of replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25698	Good afternoon. I have a question whether you're familiar with the fact that APN loans actually raise housing prices as warned by experts, CNB studies were published on this subject, and the governor himself confirmed it to us a few weeks ago. So when young families have such a short time to buy an apartment they have to agree to the higher price of the apartment, so, in fact, although we have to admit for some young families the only way to get to the apartment, the measure that tries to solve the problem is the potential problem. If you are already pushing these changes and supplementing the law, why at least the comments from the public debate that require much earlier publication of the deadline of the competition or that the subsidies may be requested throughout the year, that would at least reduce this effect of the bubble, so from the moment the apartment must be bought by all means, which actually suits the building capital, banks and real estate traders, and only to a lesser extent the families themselves who resolve their housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25699	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Ministers, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25700	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for your intervention. Yeah, and we're reading CNB's analysis, too, if that's the official position of the CNB at this point, I don't know. So the academic community is full of various articles that apostrophe or sign people who are or are not a profession. But what is a fact, as soon as some prices are subsidized, may be a little different than the market would be without subsidies, but is that a reason to end this measure, we are sure not, and we are sure that this measure will change the demographic image of the Republic if it continues to be implemented and I think that every one of these kunas invested by the state budget through such a measure is repeatedly returned to the state budget, and every one of these born or newborn children is the grace of every family that or which happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25701	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25702	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, above all congratulations on this scale, on this law. I think there's been a lot of anxiety for the last half of the year whether this measure will continue, so with the rebalancing itself where 50 million kuna has been allocated, and now by this urgent procedure we simply send one quality message to young people. Just two figures 17.661 young family who solved the housing issue this way and 2400 children, as you have mentioned, born on this measure, when we count more POS, I think they're excellent indicators why this measure is high quality. You have now circled a legislative framework, I think we should now look up and down to local levels and accept examples such as the Split-Dalmatia County project "Your Home" or in the town of Drnis or in the municipality of Klis where the land is being prepared for young families, I think you should now encourage local self-government to move into such a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25703	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25704	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP, thank you for your intervention. So, just one, only two words may have caused a little disagreement with me, so at no point in time, neither the prime minister nor the government doubted whether this measure was going further or not, we waited for the rebalancing, then the voting of the state budget, and here we are in the process of passing this law where we send a very clear message to the Croatian public. Without any threat, no one will be late anywhere, this measure goes to '21, '22. and in '23. All of you who are thinking right now, all of you who don't have complete documentation at this point won't be late because we're going to be in '21. And in '22. And in '23. This measure shall be taken until the funds are used.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25705	Thank you. Mr. Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25706	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, such as some of the above-mentioned analyses, show that this subsidy is i.e. State subsidies, state market interference, greatly contributed to higher real estate prices, making it much more difficult for young people today to actually come to real estate by linking it to the Implementing Law, which took place in 2017 with 2/3 of the salary. My question to you and to the government is when do you expect this government to stop interfering in the free market and leave Croatian citizens to live in peace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25707	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25708	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, honourable parliamentary representative for this intervention. In such a flat-rate rhetoric, rhetoric, therefore, even economists, especially we engineers don't like this story very much when you give us an exact extent to how much this measure of explicitity affects the price or growth of real estate. We'll be ready to make a working meeting with you and I'd say conflict two opinions and reflections. Until then, while you do not have these exact figures and read the press articles, allow us to base our analysis on public calls and negotiate what we have secured money for in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25709	Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25710	Dear Ministers, today we had a constructive discussion on the committee, which pointed to some illogicalities in this model of encouraging housing, or resolving the housing issue of young families. But the key question I didn't get an answer for, and here you didn't mention it was actually what about housing policy in the Republic of Croatia? This housing policy would then respond to many of these issues and which colleagues ask about the increase in real estate prices, but would be more clear on how JLS, states, and also citizens benefit from and resolve housing or how citizens will deal with it, and JLS and the state are supporting the resolution of this housing issue. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25711	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25712	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think in the course of the debate on the board I've been more than exact, although I agree with you, I haven't given you any concrete information. So, at last session of the government, we brought in one long-term strategic document of reconstruction of the housing fund by 2050, defined the passing times and sources of funding and the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Fire has helped us greatly in this, and at this point there is a commission that we have constructed, which will also give us guidelines in the segment of demographic policy, or create by the end of the next year a strategic document which will, in the form of a strategy, I am sure to pass a session of the government, and then come to the debate of the plenary session here at your assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25713	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25714	Thank you, Your Honor. The old Latin saying says "noble six omens" is a sign. The name of this law best shows what it is, about subsidising interest, not about the housing policy of the Republic of Croatia is the housing policy, as we have heard, Croatia still does not. This is an example of the law that proves that Croatia is doing everything wrong. First, we should have a strategy that has a clear plan and clear criteria to revitalise certain areas, how we will do democratic reconstruction. This law actually implements certain measures throughout the years, but measures that are only available to some. So far, we've had 17,000 users in all, and among them are people who should never be found here, like Commissioner Lovreæ ma'am. Nuic or former deputy director of Mr. Zunic. This law, unfortunately, does not make any progress in removing those irregularities in the way they are implemented by a quick finger, and on top of that, all in all, one bad and thoughtless policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25715	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25716	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians, thank you for your intervention. And I understand the political moment and ambitions because the elections are especially local to us, but these things are done through public debate. I would be happy and pleased if you as some here today were involved in a public debate and made some constructive suggestions since there were none on your part. I've heard your criticism, thank you for it, and as I just answered my colleague, so until the moment that some things, your dictionaries, don't create and idealize, are going to be the way we imagined it, because this law since 2011 gives results and has its purpose and purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25717	Thank you. Mr. Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25718	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Here I begin by welcoming these amendments and by supplementing the law, first of all, since this new deadline is now defined by 31 December 2023. which certainly guarantees everyone who intends to buy especially for young families or build a new house, that this program will continue. It would only be referred to briefly, you have already said yourself what people actually think about this law or about this measure is sufficiently said by the increase in the number of requests. So, if we look at 2.299 2017, and only this year is almost 8,000 of the demands. I also think that this measure encourages a new economic cycle especially when we talk about the construction sector. In view of this number of increased requirements, this has already been mentioned itself, as regards the budget provided for in 2021, will it be sufficient, especially when we talk about 2022, 2023 or its budget projections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25719	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25720	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. And I thank you for your intervention. We appreciate that this volume of resources will be sufficient. If the need arises, you know, we will have our own safe over the year and because of some other threats we have been fighting since 2020. and rebalancing and the possibility of needing these funds and upgrades. But what will happen in a year and a half or two years, so we will get a curve within which one number of requests will come out of the subsidy process, while the other will enter, so we appreciate that the number that will leave that volume of subsidized mass through the realization of the subsidy rights will also have additional resources available in that segment. So this 50 million isn't an ad act and a closed story, it's dynamic and it's certainly going to change over the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25721	Thank you. Mrs. Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25722	Thank you very much. Here's a respected minister from my side and from where I come from Slavonia we have nothing but praise for this law and this package of measures. I am also interested in what my colleague Bačić asked, I hear that in Split-Dalmatia as well as with us in Požega-Slavon County, many cities and municipalities have accepted an additional measure based on this programme or on the law, I wonder if you have any knowledge of the field, whether the other cities and municipalities have accepted and relied on this programme or the law that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25723	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25724	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. Thank you for the intervention. The response from the field is excellent, and what we are particularly pleased about in the past two years is the percentage, and I also tried to illustrate in my debate reading the figures in favour of transforming these credit arrangements towards rural areas of the Republic of Croatia because in the last two years more than 200% of the approved requirements go to municipalities and cities that are second, third or fourth-degree development, so it is analized that weighs the reality that the horror of these requirements is happening in Split, Rijeka, Osijek or Zagreb. We will not only through this law but also through other post mechanisms try to increase this percentage share from year to year, so very quickly we will come up with additional proposals to amend and supplement POS arrangements where this rural environment will be potentiated and I get my right place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25725	Thank you. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25726	Thank you. Dear Minister. Given that you come from a county that you know very well among the members of the Roma community, I don't know how much you know young people and the problem of young people when it comes to housing. The so-called ... we have a group of young people who don't want to study, who don't want to work and who don't want to perfect themselves, among them almost 2/3 and members of the Roma community. I know today doesn't apply to this very law, but we're talking about young people and their families. Do you have a future or can you come up with a program that could take care of the team as well as their family when it comes to housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25727	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25728	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. Yes, there are those who, at this point in the relationship between APN and financial institutions, cannot get credit to buy an apartment, build or buy a house, but through different models, and primarily through the rental, projects have already been designed today through which in different ways can be obtained by the time the young family is financially able to enter into a credit arrangement in housing units primarily through POS to be leased and that is a long number of years, and of which our idea today is to include paying that monthly rent in future purchase of that property. So, the methodology exists today, it is subject to changes and additions and since you appeal to the County of Međimurje and in the region itself such as the Međimurje County in which I agree is a high concentration of the Roma population and they are also in the segment of basic education and other aspects coming into contact as much as possible at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25729	Mr. Predrag Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25730	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. There's a lot of talk here about this increase in real estate prices. I read wherever I read it, and I only hear that the prices of real estate are rising in urban centres, nowhere else, and here's to this final extent just how it works in Varazdin County or Osijek-Baranja County, this model to rise prices. There are no real estate prices in Varazdin County, and 139 users, 95 houses are built or bought, just 44 apartments. Osijek-Baranja 374 users of it 134 apartments, 240 houses. I've never heard of house prices growing on the real estate market, and with this model over 33% or houses being built or houses being sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25731	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25732	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. You've been dealing with and following this subject for a while like many other parliamentary representatives here today. So I said already today I would not like to repeat myself once, so on the flat-rate statements I find it difficult to answer, and when they arrive from such flat-rate analyses then I am ready to sit at the table and based on the figures to talk and possibly modify the program or further change the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25733	Mrs. Martina Grman Kizavitt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25734	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. A few months ago, we passed the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb, so I wonder if you have any information on how many housing facilities are damaged in the earthquake and that they are under the APN loan and do you have any information on what is going on with these loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25735	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25736	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. Yes, it was about this subject and today's committee meeting, so we will have this information in writing and a report on APN's work very quickly, and I have committed myself to the chairman of the board and all the members of the board in the next ten days to submit a written, complete report to the APN for 2020. So it will be one of the data as an integral part of that report. If there is any need, here is colleague Stromar, so he will have the document in question at his disposal, so I assume that all MPs, or all MPs, will then be available.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25737	Mrs. Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25738	The Honorable Ministers. Indeed, I have no intention of bickering on such an important topic that is of the life interest of all our citizens, so in a constructive spirit I would like to warn myself, given the intensity of these amendments to the laws that are currently relevant to the announcement of the epidemic and the regulation of these special circumstances, that certain things have been skipped which are currently in the focus of our citizens and which prevent them from carrying out these applications to the APN. For example, a moratorium is needed to change credit performance once it enters the procedure and makes a pre-contract. Many of our citizens went into the process then the bank said the opa pandemic, so it was interrupted by them they had already given the capers and that's why they got killed, the state didn't take care of them. And secondly, this discrimination of children, one child a year who was born two months later, can be regulated somehow to encourage the creation of children in general, and not depending on when the approval for APN arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25739	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25740	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. I would almost underline and sign this replica of yours, and I agree with a lot of things, so these amendments and additions are just making it more clear that we would define and help people who are valorizing the request to decide whether the people who submitted the request submitted it in accordance with the regulation or rule, or if we have a situation where our children are just showing up as a situation of double use of the subsidy because the anomalies we have recognized, especially in this year, so in the third and the 9th months, they go in favour of some parents being very inspired in methods of avoiding a legal basis. And I agree fully with you so one of the priorities through demographic policy, and this law is also to ensure that young families are able to have children in their families. In what way will the valorized part of the subsidy be valorized on the basis of the newborn child, so the third time the thing already changes and we try to unify it so that here we agree completely with you through the debate to adjudicate that element and agree and say one high dose Consensus that we hit exactly as we almost wanted. [[Thank you, Mr. Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25741	Thank you. Let's watch our time. Thank you. Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25742	I thank the vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. Here's a quote from the first Croatian president when he said we'll have a country the way we created it, the way we want it. So here and here, we'll have as many young people as we give them a chance and give them a chance. We know that young people are actually a wealth of every country and we have to do everything possible to keep young people there, to have the right to work, to have the right to education, to have the right to housing because every country that does not have young people, who does not have young families, is in a serious crisis. And I think this is a great thing to help young people, I mean, first of all, a man and a woman because you said from that relationship that we had 2,400 children, and there was no question of where these people would be today. What I wanted to ask you is, what are the problems when a contract is signed so when it goes alone, and if there's a possibility that once a contract is concluded, it's a one-time deal for these young families 100,000 kuna. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25743	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25744	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. Yeah, I'm also in the opening part of it very explicitly said this is one of the measures of demographic policy. The first is a high-quality job where conditions are obtained in order to obtain credit and one day the loan could be returned. So the complementarity of the different measures in this demographic policy goes from resources to resources and I'm sure if we did that analysis there is no portfolio in this government, which has no contribution to the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia. The measure, whether it is possible to advance anything or to intervene in the construction sector at the time when it is going to be built or when shopping, depends primarily on the arrangements that we make with the banking system or with financial institutions, and much less on the desire and intention of us that create the rules of conduct at the time when the financial institution accepts or approves the request.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25745	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25746	Thank you. Dear Minister. You mentioned, and I want once again to highlight the possibility of people with disabilities and not only them but also families who in the joint household have persons with disabilities to further subsidize credit precisely because of disability. In this way, Mr. Minister, you also show as a resort, as well as the Government as a whole, that you give people with disabilities the hand of a partnership which is extremely important and that you allow people with disabilities to exercise their rights under equal conditions with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25747	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25748	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. Yes, you've taken good care of it, and the only thing I have left to read or repeat, if in the household, if anyone submits a request or in that joint household there is a person who has a physical impairment greater than 50% of the subsidy period is extended by two years and I think the measure is good. If there is any need for her possible correction and we are ready for that conversation, all in order to help those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25749	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. I gave this replica a year ago to your predecessor, Mr. Stromar, so I don't understand why the law doesn't state that he's a practically upgraded 2011 model. which lasted two years then and when 2,325 apartments were sold. The SDP's Government in 2013 This law didn't go on and on and on. The dark Tarritate who was then a minister did not continue with this law. How good is this law in six years of implementation, so 2011, 2012, 2017, 2018, 2019 and now, in six years, 20,000 apartments were sold in that model. If this is compared to the Encouragement Building Act, then in that model in 18 years, 2.5 times fewer apartments were sold. So all these remarks that say whether the model is good, whether it's good, whether it leads to an increase in the price of real estate are unnecessary because it's obvious that young people are interested in this model. And it is not true that I will later in the debate prove that he did not allow the increase of interest or the price of apartments. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25751	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25752	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. I agree with your intervention, all you've said is a fact. In my opening statement, I noted that the initiative started in 2011, that the first law that introduced such a methodology was published in NN No. 31 in 2011, that the law in question was valid or had two public calls in '11. And in '12, if the law had ceased to apply on December 31st, 2012 and now unrelated to who was then Minister or Prime Minister, I can only complain that this measure did not go into effect in '13, '14, 15. The effects I was sure would have been greater, but already these many so 2.253 made demands in those two years were a clear signal that the measure was also good and that it fell to fertile soil.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25753	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25754	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister. This proposal is an indication that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is having a responsibly considering the birth control measures that can help young families to resolve their housing issue or to resolve their first or appropriate family property under favourable conditions. I think it would be good to go out with housing policy programmes that will offer a solution for those families who are not creditworthy and also have to solve their housing issues, so am I curious to know what was going on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25755	Thank you very much. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25756	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. It was already mentioned here in a different arrangement and in a different rhetoric that something was done wrong, but I can confirm with your dictionary that we are doing it parallelly. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait for the strategic document, the strategic document will make the committee half next year in accordance with the objectives of the strategic document in question this model or other models that will be in force by then may change, but wait for some better time is not really necessary. The funds are provided in the budget, the methodology exists it is upgraded and crystallized year after year and what I am sure and this call in question we are preparing for the first half of the following year will have a large number of requests and interest will be great. And I am sure that a large number of young families in the first half of 2021 and without a strategic document, will provide their first real estate or a housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25757	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25758	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I disagree with you that automatic subsidies raise prices because the point of the subsidy is to lower prices, not to raise them. And what is quite clear is that the periodicity of this measure raises real estate prices, means that once or twice a year the tender reduces the bargaining power of customers because in order to achieve the measures they must then purchase real estate. And when you say that you saw it in the paper or that it's written in some... articles and that it's a question of whether it's the CNB's position, I answer you that you're wrong. This is the governor of the CNB when he defended the report for the past year he stood where you stand and confirmed that in the opinion of the CNB, this measure of yours raises the price of real estate. This means that young citizens who are creditworthy, as their colleague said, are doing the bear a favor because you help them buy the property cheaper, but this same property at a higher price. Thus, public money in a segment goes to the profits of banks and real estate sellers, so that at least if it were all year round, but without a competition it would continuously reduce this increase at least some measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25759	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25760	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. I appreciate and respect your disagreements with what I said, and you will give me the right not to agree with you. So what we read primarily in the press is one type's polemic, and what's the position of the CNB as an institution is the official position on that I'm willing to polymerize and work on that document as best possible. That some CNB employees in their so-called The scientific papers prejudge some things, I can agree with you in part. But the flat-rate first sentence is that this is the only measure that raises the price of real estate, not taking into account the processes that occur in EU countries, you cannot isolate Croatia from EU 27, so some things that are normal market processes that happen in 27 EU countries are also partly happening in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25761	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25762	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. In your opening statement, you touched the whole law, the importance of the law, what the law gives us. Relatively few of you have spoken about these six articles I dare say or are eight with a transitional and final to what these amendments and additions of the law apply. There's already been an opportunity in the House to talk about this, there's going to be a few more opportunities, because they're going to have to change, and what I'm interested in about this is next. One of the reasons why you are making changes and supplementing this law is the deadline in which you have to have a registered residence. We had a chance to see that the deadline in which a registered residence must have caused certain turbulences related to this law, so I wonder if you have done an analysis and determined how many cases there were really problems and how will you allow this amendment to happen in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25763	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25764	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. I'm sorry that you had your eye on only one change from six that further edits and explains to those who are doing the analysis in which they verify the application. I am sure that all six amendments and additions will give colleagues in APN the opportunity to make decisions faster and more uniformly, and those of the Polish situations that we have seen so far and on the basis of which these amendments have been made and have been complemented primarily by the subject of legal expertise, and I am ready at the moment when the legal services of the three institutions of the rightdoctor who will eventually intervene in these cases of the same controversy or the same conclusion are shared with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25765	Thank you very much. And the last replica Mr. Davor finds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25766	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister. I can in one hand agree with you that a complete rise in real estate prices is only due to subsidies. For example, in 2017, when the exemption of the first real estate tax was abolished and it probably contributed to the rise in the price of real estate, so when we look in this context more measures together, we can say that it is certain that one part of the subsidy goes to a rise in price precisely because of these subsidies, but one part of the subsidy goes to actually a rise in prices due to higher taxes than it used to be because if before it was a release to buy the first property then it was actually a spill from the hollow to empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25767	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25768	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, MP. I didn't understand the question if there is any, if this is just your review of the situation in question on the real estate market I can accept it, I can't agree with you. And legal or economic expertise on this subject has a variety of institutions. It is not only the CNB that has taken the right to analyse the real estate market, you have here and the Economic Institute and the Faculty of Economics and various other associations through the HGK that deals with these things, so I suggest and recommend that you read all these documents, and then I am ready for one coffee with you and a constructive debate of the conclusions of all these extensive analyses that have been made over the past few years, and the subject of interest was the real estate market in the area of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25769	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And does the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Marija Selak Rasupuc, who will speak in front of the Independent Lists Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25770	Your Honor, there's a little time, a few concrete remarks and a lot of suggestions, so I'm going to shorten the introduction, but I'd like to point out here at the beginning of two things. The first is that the right to a home is a fundamental human right, that our citizens leave Croatia because they cannot afford that home or make a living for the same home. The same way that citizens stay here and then enable the functioning of this system in general and the pension and health that depends mostly on our workforce, so we don't have to work out new laws on foreigners that will enable foreign labour imports because we don't own them are the ones that have that home. I think it's necessary to start demystifying some things. The truth is that many citizens have bought an apartment beyond this measure, the citizens will take anything they are offered. But also because they're in an uninvited situation. We must be aware that this sounds much better than is really a situation in practice. After the "Switzerland" case, we could see how many of our citizens did not read the fine print. It may not be their task, but surely our task as their elected representatives is to warn them of some contradictions or some petty letters or at least some real situation with some kind of support coming from governments that should make life easier for them. Let's say here when you hear it really sounds optimistic that you're going to get 50 or 30% of the first 5. subsidies on your loan to your apartment. No one thinks for more than five years. We live in that weather. But when you put it on paper and take the basic contradiction that is currently present and which urgently needs to be lifted, and it was part of the pre-election promise, it's a first real estate tax, then you'll realize that on about EUR 100,000 of credit and how much of your apartment you'll pay, which is the maximum subsidy that you'll get when you refuse that tax you'll first give it, let's say some EUR 3,000, this is a rough bill, so 3%. Now if you tell our citizens 90%, 97% of the apartment you have to pay, and you get 3% of the state no one would buy you that apartment, but when you say the first 5 years. The state subsidizes you 50 or 30% of your loan, because they think they're gonna get something big. A small number of our citizens puts a real bill on paper, but I repeat, it is our job to expose this real account to them before they engage in lending that they may not be sure they will be able to pay it off, just as if by doing so we were to encourage even stronger measures to facilitate their first real estate access. And now I'm going to move on to this concrete proposal to amend and supplement this law. Its intensity is to address the very conditions that we all witness, the conditions of the declared epidemic, and to generally address the special conditions that must really be regulated in order to make life easier for our citizens. In this regard, it is necessary to either add some new articles or open some of the existing laws which are not mentioned here, which at this particular moment, are making it impossible for our citizens to apply to the APN or to potentiate the area of uncertainty in which our citizens are present. In this sense, we will constructively highlight the next proposal for necessary and urgent measures to enable housing lending at this time of the crisis. So first, this moratorium is about changing credit capability once it's in the process and making a pre-contract. What's going on? Due to certain uncertainty and insufficient regulation of bank operations at the time of the crisis corporal, many cases in which citizens were previously declared creditworthy to then give the corporal and sign the pre-contract, and banks would subsequently change the terms of the contract or declare the same citizens incompetence. For example, if the spouses working in the same firm, so the banks were afraid that these citizens would be able to repay the loan, and they had already given them this credit capability which is why our citizens cashed in on those apartments and pulled out their credit ability. Who's gonna take care of them? Who, who, whom, whom they can ask the question of whom they answer? These are the measures needed in the amendments to the law if this law will apply to the current moment of the crown crisis. That's why what more opposition clubs here have highlighted, openness and sustainability of calls throughout the year. Just in addition to the amendments to Art. One, setting a new deadline. We currently know how difficult it is to collect documentation, the question is what is ahead of us, and the question is how many citizens will be able to access the institutions in which they need to get the specified documentation. Therefore, it is now more than ever necessary to make this call at least at this time of crisis if not permanently, open and permanent throughout the year. This is how citizens rush to bargain for apartments because of the uncertainty about when the call comes and they are in an invisible position compared to those who sell these apartments, and the state needs to protect their rights. Because of the uncertainty about the application process and the expectation of its approval, a more complete right of digitisation that allows the monitoring of its own application on the trail of the system of e-Citizens or at least the monitoring of postal packages, you know what happens to people? So some people, here they can actually read their problems, they sold, they handed over the documents at the 10th month they didn't get the answers. Do you think the sellers will be waiting for them? Well, salesmen can take that corporal when they come to mind because they've exceeded those contracts. When people hand over their documents, they need to know when their applications will be approved. It is the only thing that enables them to position properly on this ruthless and insecure real estate market. Then, that basic pre-election promise that I remind you of, abolishing the first real estate tax. Because what happens now? We actually have citizens who credit the state. This is paradoxical. You have an APN incentive measure, and then you have to pay the state and you give it first, the citizens of about 3,000 euros in order to give you state citizens a gradual monthly return of, say, EUR 150 per month, which is part of the credit rate it covers for you, and it will give you at that rate only a few years from now the 3,000 EUR you gave it in the beginning. So, if you're doing encouraging measures, then you can't take money to the citizens first, but at least in case of incentive measures, you have to abolish that tax, and of course it would be desirable that it doesn't exist in principle. Similarly, it is necessary to think of the equality of children and in this respect we will submit an amendment that this measure of 2 years applies to every child, regardless of which, under the age of 18, regardless of when it was born. Namely, because of the prior priorities of the necessary demographic revitalisation, it is necessary to treat all children equally, while the current practice represents an obvious discrimination against children who were born before the application and, as it is not known when the application will be. It is not a matter of measuring his age and whether he came 5 minutes before or after making a decision or conclusion but rather an equal member of a household who has equal rights as his brothers and sisters, present and future. We would also like to point out that the proposed amendments skip many, if not the key problems in the current bill that we have not opened. one needs an analysis of the real impact of the measures so far. We've heard a few times about the CNB's research, we've heard about how these measures might lead to a rise in real estate prices, we need analysis to see what we need to change. This does not have to be the only analysis of the CNBs, but it can also be taken into account, whether it is an individual or a whole system and offer other analyses. I'm saying, if in the end the state gives you about 3%, and if we hear real estate prices grow by 10, 20, and really dramatic, at least before this crisis, then we really need to put in a calculation, how much this measure helped, and how much did it take? So we need an analysis of the impact of the measures so far, and that's what we need to discuss in this House to see what we do next. It should be recalled that the loan subsidy is up to a maximum of 1500 euros, not taking into account the movement or inciting the potential actual expansion of the market prices that were present. It is also a questionable measure to promote debt slavery where it is insisted on a minimum of 15 years, where it is necessary to lend to the bank in order to obtain at all any subsidy, there is also a question of the fairness of the percentage of the financing of the development index, because in more developed areas and more credit.../incomprehensible/... and the higher cost of dwellings, the development index does not take that into account. And finally, additional measures and thoughtful strategies are needed to enable citizens to get home. Mostly, encouraging housing, we own a very small number of apartments, the state cannot regulate real estate prices, unlike many positive examples, such as Austria, Vienna, etc. Likewise, it is also necessary to regulate the rent of apartments, long-term rent of apartments, to allow our citizens to reach real estate or to live safely. Only a citizen who has the ability to meet the primary needs of life, and the roof above his head is certainly one of them. He is a free citizen who can actively participate in democratic society. The roof above is therefore a prerequisite for building a democratic society and facilitating its insurance should be a political priority for all elected citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25771	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Marko Milanović litre to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25772	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Most of the problems I'm going to cause you in this law I personally felt on my skin. In 2016 my wife and I were married after a long relationship, we were tenants at the time. During that period of our lives, we had serious conversations about going abroad. There are many reasons that have led us to such thinking, but the greatest reason was the financial uncertainty we had from month to month. We are not people who are afraid of work, the woman worked during the studies and successfully mastered. I took off from work right after I finished my studies. We had below the average salary for the city of Zagreb at the time, and it was not clear how the living standards of two people with a university cannot be better than what we had. However, we decided to stay in Croatia and fight here for our future. Later that year, we decided to settle the housing issue and set out in search of the apartment. It didn't make sense to pay rent when our loan war was just a little bit bigger. More expensive than sub-citizenship. Early next year, we found an apartment whose purchase could also financially endure and that met almost all our needs. We agreed on a price and gave the owner a truly symbolic corporal and set out to solve everything necessary for the housing loan. In the meantime, we learned that we are not creditworthy for the purchase of an apartment due to the new Executive Act, which took effect on 1 January 2017. The state gives subsidies to housing loans, real estate prices are wild, we're not credited because I recently changed my job and I didn't have six payment lists with the new employer. The owner of the apartment we've been looking for and found for almost a year has been getting better offers than we've agreed, but with all this bad news coming along one good thing, we find out that our family will be bigger for another member. But the problems were still present. We sat down with our families, presented our problems, soon thereafter moved to a family member’s apartment and sought a solution to the problem of creditworthiness. We didn't find it, but thanks to the very good will of the owner of the apartment who refused other offers and who was waiting for us to become creditworthy, we were able to buy an apartment at the agreed price. We were lucky, unlike a few of our friends who weren't so lucky. During that period, one of the main news was the subsidisation of housing loans conducted by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning headed by Minister Štromar at the time. On our wife's request if we're going to apply for subsidisation, I decided not to. We won't because the state never gives anything for free, ever, ever. What with this moment of time has proved true. These and these subsidies that the state interferes with in the market don't solve anyone's problems, they create them. As we could hear from Minister Horvat today, the proposal to amend the law and supplement the House Loan Subsidisation Act is the law, i.e. in an explanation, the Law on subsidisation of housing credits was adopted for the purpose of encouraging demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of the settlement and the reduction of the emigration of young families. This sentence summed up everything this law has failed to do since 2017. But let's start in order, April 27, 2017, the Prime Minister from his government disbanded three ministers. Two months later, the CNS Central Committee votes a future coalition with its new HDZ partners and in return receives two ministerial chairs. 9 June 2017 The new majority votes Blaženko Divjak as new Minister of Education and Science and Predrag Štromar as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. The work of the Minister of Happiness for us and our future generations can and should be forgotten, but unfortunately for us and for all young people in the Republic of Croatia, the legacy and consequences of former Minister Štromar and all his decisions are still felt. After the HNS took over the Ministry's bat, their master plan to subsidise housing loans was launched, after the time and analysis of the impact of these subsidies it is clear that the young did not profit or save such a so-called. Incentives, they're in a much worse situation than they were before the subsidy. The subsidy was designed as an incentive to cover part of the annuity to enable young people to resolve the housing situation. Croatian sovereigns agree that the housing situation of young people is one of the key problems that we need to address in order to keep them in Croatia, but these incentives have helped them more than they have helped. Subsidisation of residential loans led to an inflation of real estate prices, which meant that all those who bought apartments before the subsidy as we did were actually in the same situation, if not in a better financial situation than those who bought an apartment with a subsidy which their appearance on the market had disrupted real estate prices. The CNB analyses confirmed that this incentive increased the price of real estate on the market, and the link of this incentive to the proposed CNB regulation to banks which are required that housing loans do not exceed two-thirds of the average salary due to the provisions adopted by the amendments to the Implementing Law of 2017. They brought young people to Croatia before an impossible mission to obtain credit at all. All of this has contributed to Croatia's real estate being more unfavourable today than it was before the state was mixed into the market with subsidized housing loans. And I don't want to think about the situation of those who haven't met those conditions. Further failure and difficulties in young people's lives can be found in the abolition of the first real estate tax relief that took place in 2017. In such a decision, the purchase of an average apartment of 50m2 collected between 20 and 30,000 kuna. When asked about the abolition of this relief for young Finance Minister Zdravko Maric justified the move with the obligation to comply with European directives under which all real estate buyers should be in a level playing field, and according to current rules, the exemption applies only to people who buy old apartments, not to new ones who are burdened by VAT. Later that year, the minister justified the abolition of this relief with precisely these subsidies that dramatically made it worse for young people to secure a housing issue that did not contribute either to demographic recovery or to preventing the emigration of young people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When the subsidisation of housing loans started according to the Croatian DZS data, 47,352 persons moved from Croatia, almost 30% more than the previous year. The trend of departure continued in 2018 and 2019. In those three years, nearly 130,000 qualified young people left Croatia. The figures are difficult to visualize but imagine that in three years, the City of Rijeka has left the Republic of Croatia. Today we are still witnessing an exodus of young educated Croats and Croats who are looking for a better life for themselves and their future families. From this pay phone, please do not help young people, turn to an economy that will have a tax continuity, head, tail and economic development plan. Give up unnecessary burdens of national protectionism, unfair competitions of any kind and enable young people to live and work and create in the Republic of Croatia for the standard of living they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25773	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Spjic will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25774	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the government. The law on subsidising housing loans has been passed in order to encourage, three matters are the demographic reconstruction of society, urban regeneration of the settlement, reducing the emigration of young families and helping citizens. This amendment of the law extends the period of application until the end of 2023, further regulates certain provisions in order to reduce the possibility of abuse and provides the means necessary for the implementation of these subsidies over the coming years. Such a law certainly requires a country where demographic trends are a key problem that threatens the very foundations of survival itself. In fact, in the decade that ends, we lost as much as 10% of the population about half of the City of Zagreb. The number of students and young people generally and drastically falls, so on average with Italians, we become the oldest nation in the EU. Many experts warn that this negative wave will only slap us and shake us further and such a poorly structured economy. However, these votes do not come to those responsible, but they reach for ad hoc alibi solutions such as the Foreign Employment Act. The law itself is one of the better we have seen in recent years, and its operational implementation is quite effective. A family with one child who has been granted a loan receives a subsidy over six years, and if they get two more children during that period, the annuity subsidy period of between 30 and 51% is increased to as much as 10 years, which is an extremely large help in resolving the housing issue. The Hungarian model is considered one of the better in the EU where the third child is given full credit write-off, but only up to 220,000 kuna cca 30 000 euros, while our limit is 750,000 kuna and is ultimately bigger with us and help. In this way, a total of 17.661 families have received support for resolving the housing issue. The funds are secured for the extended application of Law 263.5 million kuna in 2021, then for an additional 50 million kuna in the coming years. Similar objectives, demographic recovery and balanced regional development also have a rural development programme that plans as much as 2.4 billion euros, waiting for more than 2 billion from EU funds and the rest of around 400m euros from taxpayers. By the end of 2018, as much as 59% were granted and 29% were already paid. The desert billions here are not the end, which is the autumn sign that we live in an extremely rich country, only bad governance of public goods has led us to the beginning of the EU, and unfortunately there is a strengthening of our position. According to the Government's State aid report for 2019, the Republic of Croatia is showing that it invests as much as 15 billion kuna on various state aids annually. In relation to this amount of housing support they look ridiculous, only 60th share of this amount. On the contrary, it still spends as much as 2 billion kuna on the promotion of shipbuilding, 8 times more than on encouraging housing loans. Ministers Ćoric and Maric, but the entire government has often boasted of several billion who are rehabilitating corruption and poor governance in Uljanic, and the only visible result is the unprecedented devastation of taxpayers' money is three hands in reserve if most of the coalition of brotherhood and unity is encrypted. The club's statement during the Krš-Padena interpretation, I quote, our economy is in collapse, and some would say we're dealing with a minister of the economy. So what do we do, aliens? They will learn into the annals of dirty political trade across the back of taxpayers and the welfare of future generations. Of these 15 billion kunas, nearly 7 billion kunas each year go to support in agriculture. Since the beginning of the decade, this support has increased from 3.6 billion kuna annually to that amount, and cumulatively over 40 billion kunas have been invested in support, while total agricultural production has dropped by 4 billion, from 21 to 17 billion kuna. Because 80% of the incentives come from EU funds does not mean that money could be invested without responsibility, for goals that must be realised. The Croatian economy needs such incentives to deal with other EU members. But the figures say a lot of it doesn't work in the state support system. The populist waste of funds from helicopters without a clear strategy, the country's re-industry, leads to occasional minor shifts, but not total economic recovery. All these desert billions available for the economic and demographic development of the Republic of Croatia, we can talk for hours, but the effects of these investments are devastating. They are defeating because billions cannot compensate for the negative effects of key causes of emigration and economic decline. The effects of corruption, nepotism, negative selections, the catastrophic management of public goods, inefficient justice and the suppression of entrepreneurship and foreign investment, as long as the ruling need the help of money counters to count the funds that they have come through corruption, no measures will help us stop the negative trends in the economy and demographics. To conclude, by entering the Eurozone, the interest rates on loans will fall drastically anyway, which is one of the key reasons why the government and the CNB advocate a hasty entry. If the underlying causes of the problems that are trying to solve this law, demographic renewal and the halting of emigration are solved, which are corruption and a fundamentally negative attitude towards entrepreneurship and investment, our young families will have the opportunity to secure their existence and pay off their housing loans and without support. Let's not forget that our young people go to countries where they don't offer subsidized loans, but a legal state and fair paying jobs. Without solving essential problems, certain shifts that will trigger will remain only Pir's victory in Croatia's fight against demographic dying. Without a strong real sector, dear Minister, no subsidy is helping us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25775	Thank you, too. You finished a little early, so you gave Mr. Ante Bačić a chance to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, and then we'll start with the club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25776	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. More aspects of how we can look and how we can look at exactly this urgent process of the final bill on subsidising housing loans, we can begin and look at sociological, what kind of society we find ourselves in when we see the very statistics of leaving our young people from family homes, which is devastating when compared to European averages. When we compare the statistics on how many of our citizens own real estate or want to own real estate, we know that in a society that is very focused on owning a house or apartment, more than on rent itself, and then we look at these last few years and the very number of citizens who have approached the exploitation of this measure by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we can also talk about the measures that have taken place for young people in the last two governments, i.e. This current and, of course, which is the continuation of the government from the former summons HS. When we count nearly 7 billion from such measures alone for the employment of young people, when we count the tax exemption of young people up to 25 years and the release of 50% of young people up to 30 years and all other measures, from agriculture and all other government resolutions, what the minister himself said, this is just one, one moment of the Ministry of Construction that meets with other incentives from other ministries that make up one whole of the incentives of young people today, especially during the period of this crisis that is ahead of us and all the difficulties that young people currently feel. It is clear to us that the purpose of this law is normal, and here we have heard in the replicas the very history of the passing of this law that he has been a follower since 2011. When it's 2.g. the measure has been current and how many families have, together now since 2017, taken advantage of this measure and resolved their only housing issue. We know that since 2017. It was a slightly different measure, so I asked myself what it would be like if we went back to those 50% not to look at the degree of development but to be true for the others, yet this way by degreeing between 30 and 50% we do a small difference between large cities and rural areas where we encourage young families to still rebuild and fix and build their home in rural areas where our plan is to return to the next decades. So now we have this form of law and normally in these last few years, and since the last amendments to this law, we have seen some illogicalness and about the application of the residence itself and about the small-time children and the exploitation and the additional measures and normally this law has corrected all of this, and this law has corrected all the difficulties that have been made when exploiting the ground itself. We know which citizens can take this opportunity, these are the signs of a person up to 45 years old. which are creditworthy, whose spouse or partner or life partner does not own an apartment, house and other + that addition to the house or apartment in a state of hygiene technical conditions of use. The excellent items that are definitely to be noted in this final proposal are what was inherited from previous amendments and complemented, this is also related to the established disability or person who is raising such a subsidised credit, but also to persons with disabilities in the household where this measure will be used where the disability is greater than 50% of the physical impairment, the date of subsidisation of such a loan is extended to 2.g. and something that we'll all normally agree on here, which is an additional loan subsidisation for 1.g. about children, especially children who are in the household, and are not older than 18. And what's good is what we've mentioned at the very beginning, and that's the extension of the loan subsidisation time by 2.g. for each newborn, live birth or adopted child. We know that this measure also applies to buildings of up to EUR 1,500 related to kuna equivalent per m2 and to loans of up to EUR 100,000, whose payment period cannot be shorter than 15 g. The Minister himself also mentioned the number of requests made since 2017. to date, but also the number of applications and good is this statistics that we did not see at the very beginning, and that is the average age of those who raise these loans in 33 years, the average subsidy is somewhere up to 1,000 kuna at the very beginning and the average rises somewhere at 60 thousand euros on an average of 20 years, which is a good indicator in which areas and for which this measure is just complicated and we see that if we see a quantity of 60 and a few thousand euros at 20 years. We can immediately assume that these are not exclusively apartments in large areas, in large cities such as Split, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka or here, perhaps more expensive, more expensive cities such as Dubrovnik. Some indicators, i.e. Some of the figures that are of great importance and for which I think we will unanimously support all of this proposal, this final proposal of the law is that in the past 4 years. 17.661 The young family thus resolved their housing issue and that 2,400 children were born or adopted during the duration of the measure. I'm going to get a little bit straight in the beginning, in the replica itself, well corrected by the minister, I said that our young families were enough, enough to expect this measure to be, it wasn't doubtful whether it would be, regardless of all the difficulties we face as a society, but here we are as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but here's the vote and the rebalance, but also the budget itself for 2021. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry have not doubted at any moment that they will continue with this measure and that in the rebalancing process we have already secured 50 million kuna and it is good, it is a guarantee at the very beginning in the introduction that the minister said that every year next year until the time of this law, which is 2023. that funds will be provided and that this is not in any way question at all. When we count the economic aspect ourselves and how many buildings have been in trouble since this covid crisis occurred, when we only take the aspect of damage to buildings in an earthquake in Zagreb and Zagreb County and the surrounding area where 40 thousand buildings and apartments are damaged, it is understandable why we are bringing this final proposal into emergency procedure. How much good will he bring, and what the minister himself said to us in the spring, when the competition over APN itself takes place to subsidize this type of credit itself, is that annually with about 4,000 loans subsidized, 4,000 loans that will relate either to the renovation or to the construction of houses and what we have opened up an additional topic, and I think that this will be an opportunity here and in individual discussions, and I believe we all come from different parts we have different examples, here we have something and mentioned that this has affected the real estate market, I would disagree. I come from the City of Split where this is the last thing that has affected the rapid increase in real estate prices, but I think we have excellent examples from our local self-government regarding our counties and cities that have launched a single project within the framework of the legislative framework that has enabled them to use a good part of the incentive and take-up in some way and in a concession of a certain type of land and thus resolving their housing issue. But I believe that in an individual debate, we will exchange examples from different parts of the Republic of Croatia. Just for the end, when we look at it again, the number of citizens' interests for this measure are increasing from year to year, but also the number of questions I believe that you have all received from our fellow citizens I believe that we will unanimously support this law when it comes to voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25777	Thank you, too. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,48 HOURS]] Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25779	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, I don't see any of the proposings, but I suppose there are as many colleagues and colleagues here after the break are in this assembly. We have before us amendments and additions to the House Loan Subsidies Act where the Proposer opted for an emergency procedure. It's not an emergency procedure, it's nothing unusual, and the emergency procedure is really acceptable in some things, but these changes and complements work and explain them by an emergency procedure then it's still an emergency procedure to explain further by the fact that it's due to the earthquake in Zagreb and because of the crisis caused by covid-19 it seems to me that it's actually just an explanation where the proposer decided to go in one reading somewhere through two readings. Likewise, the minister himself in his opening speech very little touched on the reason why these amendments were made and the amendments to the law, he touched much more on all other things and explained why this law is good, which are its results and everything else. So I would just like to say firstly that these amendments and additions work to extend the deadline until 31 December 2023, to further clarify the reason for the individual, in certain cases it does not approve the credit, in order to clarify the status of underage children, then the period in which applicants must have registered residences, you know that there have been an awful lot of reasons and everything else, and to explain cases where there is no need to repay credit or what cases in which no credit is returned. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law in a certain way are only cosmetics of what has been concluded through the implementation of the law that it is necessary to amend or what needs to be complemented. But now I would like to say a few words about the essence of what this law adopts, or what are the main elements of this law. The proposal was adopted each time, and the law was adopted in 2017, and then one amendment was 2018 and 2019. Three reasons, one reason is demographic reconstruction, the other is urban regeneration, the third is reduction and emigration. There's no single information that this law in those three elements actually made one step there, but it couldn't make a step. When you ask our citizens about how they would at all, whether they would decide before buying real estate or possibly if the state had rent apartments, take apartments for rent, and then in one time decide whether to turn it into a buy or not, they mainly respond to taking a lot more apartments for rent, and in order to make a much more rare decision to buy a real estate team more what is the situation in Croatia really is that we all together, so all Croatian citizens have a lot of real estate and young people have previously been through those surveys that were done there in 2014-2015. they decided much more often to use their resources for travel, for schooling, for some other things. So, of course, there was a poll in another time than to go shopping for their real estate. This law gives this possibility of subsidisation, which means it forces our young citizens to re-enter the loan and thus resolve their housing issue. There are three things that are extremely important to one family at all. The first thing is education, education, the second thing is business, so the economic conditions in which you can have a stable job and on which you can move forward, or the conditions under which you can simply change both the third and third things are really that you can quickly and easily solve your living issue. When it comes to a quick and easy solution to the housing issue, then one of the important things is that there is one stable housing policy. In Croatia, it does not exist. We do not have a policy of housing, we do not have a policy in which certain cities would have their own policies, such as, in some other countries, it has decided not to mention the name of Vienna, one long-term housing policy that is known precisely when and under what conditions you can rent apartments, you can easily change them, there is no city in Croatia, but there is no city at any state level that has no housing policy and it seems to me that this should be one of the things that should be taken into account. Since there are none, there is no housing policy, and then it was no wonder that one measure which has proved to be extremely good for years, which is that you are exempt from paying value added tax for the purchase of the first real estate that was a good measure, which has obtained results, at one point you decide to abolish. Now, in his election programme, the winning party, or HDZ, has said it will bring it back again. I'm very interested, and I was also the minister when he was there with his 5th reform asking when it would be, if it would be soon, and he said he would be, but he made sure he didn't say when it would be. It was an excellent measure, a continuous measure, a measure that never caused any disturbances in the real estate market but even more so. And now we have this measure with the subsidisation of housing credit which is, therefore, you have a number of those things where the bad light is shown and it has proved that not all the border conditions are controlled but that later when something is determined then it is done, but it is not the law, it has to be taken into account and it needs to be kept in constant care of it and it has caused a disturbance on the real estate market. At the beginning when the amendment was made to the law of 2018. Then I was one of the ones who said so maybe that... The measures in force cannot know too much about it and cannot talk about it. [[/The speaker is not understood because of a bad relationship.]] But there is now one experience because no matter how long the minister tried to say that there were not enough indicators, enough indicators could have been made by the agency. So, you need to take care of what it is, you need to talk to those who deal with real estate and see what the situation is. Equally, from the very beginning of the law, one fact has been pointed out, and that is to decide that the quickest finger, or to say, must be applied by then and then. So, they're crazy, they're crazy, they're crazy, they're the real estate market, they're the price of real estate, they're the ones who decided to subsidize and use the subsidy. So if there's something like that, then it should be that you can handle the demands all year long, and let's say they're quarterlyally processed and then they're quarterlyally said what's been processed and so on. So it's possible to do, now there's already some experience. I'm one of those who advocates and will always advocate that we have a fan in which someone will decide to buy a property, someone will decide to rent, someone will decide to go to POS, someone will decide, and I don't know how to work their own house, and then use certain credit lines, so we need to make everything possible. But with the excuse to go on a subsidy, and killing that measure that has shown great success for years, which is that you don't pay taxes on buying the first real estate, it just wasn't a good decision and it wasn't a good solution. And now, of course, when we have a certain experience, we're going back to the way it was. What clearly needs to be said once again, those measures which, therefore, this law has decided to subsidise, decided to help part of the citizens, the decision was political, and less was based on, based on some professional analysis, but now there is already a certain experience of what it is. But those 3 measures that are always said to be followed by this law are simply not achieved or can be achieved. ... Young people move out, no matter what they move out because they're looking for... [[/The speaker is not understood because of a bad relationship.]] This can't be a demographic measure, it's about like... [[/The speaker is not understood because of a bad relationship.]] urban regeneration is done by other measures, done continuously and... [[/The speaker is not understood because of a bad relationship.]] [[/The speaker is not understood because of a bad relationship.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25780	Thank you very much, thank you very much, ma'am. Dark-Taritash. The last 30 seconds were getting weaker, but I think you were clear, no matter what, the point was clear, but the weaker it got, the more technical relationships. Thank you very much. Can you hear me? Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25781	I would like to point out that the colleague did not exceed the time but later... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25782	No, no, no, no, no, I'm asking... Yeah, she switched her time at the end, yeah. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, yeah, you got it right now, Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25783	I thank the chairman. As far as the Green-Left bloc Club is concerned, Croatia does not have a housing policy and it does not have a document, which we have found that there is no document of residential policy, a housing strategy and that it is working on it but has no clear direction at all and no vision of where it is going and how to solve the housing issue for a large number of Croatian citizens. These amendments to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans are, in fact, extended by the programme of housing subsidies measures and provided additional budget money for the programme, for these measures. But let's start to determine one thing. According to the website, the European Commission's proverbially conservative right means that affordable housing is according to many human rights, so the right to affordable housing is shell law. This means that the state is obliged to make sure that people exercise that right. Almost the entire housing policy, if it can be called policy at all, is reduced to this measure, means subsidisation of housing loans, and that even means socially encouraging housing as one of the very praised programmes has fallen completely into the other. For example, according to the APN report in 2019. The state has provided a total of 90 million kuna for the insurance of the social promotional housing programme, meaning the popular POS. You know how much was spent that year? 9.9 million kuna, meaning 11% of the modest amount for POS was managed by APN in 2019. It's the same age as the director. V.D. The APN director was the famous director who said "I am ashamed not to have so much, I am ashamed to tell the prime minister at all how much I don't have" when it was discovered with the help of reporters that he bought for himself and his son an apartment for POS while more than 60 families were waiting on the social housing list for those apartments. So that's Croatia's housing policy. So out of 90 million kuna, 11% was spent, but that's why by 2020. 244 million kuna has been spent on this measure of subsidisation of housing loans according to the same APN data. So we made a conscious or unconscious twist in how we solved the housing issue. So what's the problem with this measure, the three are problems, first it's just for those so that the state helps to solve the housing issue by buying the property only to those who are raising credits in the bank, so that's just for those who are raising credits in the bank. If they're buying in any other way, the state isn't helping them. Secondly, it is a periodical measure because the tender is opened only once or twice a year and this leads to an increase in real estate prices or affects at least if there are other factors to increase real estate prices because the minister also said that these are some trends that are wider within the EU. I will remind you that last year the rise in real estate prices in Croatia was about 10, one of the largest in the entire EU, so I don't understand what this has to do with macroeconomic and other trends in the EU. So we have one of the biggest increases in real estate prices throughout the EU that year. And when someone says it's some kind of scientific debate, and the minister said CNB employees have a debate on whether it affects the rise in real estate prices, not having employees, but the CNB governor was here and I asked him when he was presenting a report on whether this measure affected the rise in real estate prices, which I repeat, is one of the largest in the EU. He said that, not CNB employees, not scientists, but the governor of the CNB, we can look at the footage if you don't believe it. The third thing, meaning only the credited younger citizens, under the age of 45, can use this measure, means all those young people, and Croatia is, by the preeminent number of young people, at the very top of the EU. All these young people who are not creditworthy to them are obviously not thinking of helping or caring for a housing issue, meaning these people cannot access this measure, so when talking about a large number of applications it is true, but what they should see is how many of those families that have registered from these 17,000 families who have applied to these measures would still resolve their housing issue and that there were no such measures. And what we need to ask ourselves is how many young people who stay in a parent home because they can't solve the housing issue, how much this absolute number of young people who can't solve it so far has been reduced because of this measure, that's how we should evaluate this measure. Because I will remind you of EUROSTAT Croatia is the worst country in the EU, the worst country since young people leave their parents' homes, and one of the main reasons for this is the inability to afford housing. So in Croatia, according to EUROSTAT, young people on average leave their parents' home at 31 at almost 32 years of age. Let us, for example, compare this with Sweden where they leave at 18.5 years of age, meaning that young people in Croatia leave their parents' home at the latest, not because they don't want to leave their homes but because they can't afford it. So we should look at it as the number decreases, how that age decreases if we want to evaluate the measures of our so-called apartment. policies. So according to that data, this measure is currently ineffective. If we look at demographic effects, I'd also like to see what that effect is on demographic policy. A colleague said the same thing on the Committee on Spatial Planning, so we at 17,000 families have 5,000 children, so not every third family has one child, we say that this is a demographic measure, not newborn children during this measure, but a total of 5,000 children in 17,000 families approved by the request. I don't understand are these demographic effects, and we see a huge problem with the rise in real estate prices and then the people we help buy cheaper real estate actually helping them collect these properties and then the public money goes to the profits of the banks and goes to the profits of those who build apartments, the most sellers, and they're mostly the ones who build new apartments. And then even in the light of the law by myself, I really don't understand what this has to do with the earthquake, what it has to do with the earthquake, what it has to do with these measures, because the earthquake has brought down existing properties and it needs to be restored, this same construction sector that won't even be enough to absorb everything that needs to be restored in the City of Zagreb in the area in some short time with public money. And here it is said that this construction sector should actually build new apartments that we will subsidize through housing loans. So at least this periodicity is measured to at least consider it, to be at least a whole year. For example, when there were significant tax reliefs on the purchase of the first real estate they were all year round and you had to do it only once or twice a year when the APN tender was going on, you could have done it at any time during the year and you would have achieved some kind of help from the state, so as a buyer you had bargaining power, and now you don't have because you can buy real estate if you want help from the state only while the APN tender is going on. The tax system in Croatia is such that it stimulates short-term rent for tourists instead of long-term rent for city residents. Ten times less paid by those who rent their apartments to tourists than those who mean ten times more paid by those who rent their apartments to residents, means the domestic population of these cities. Poorly regulated relationship between the tenant and the tenant, little contract, poor inspection capacity that checks it. It is a solution, a different tax framework and to build more public housing for rent. In fact, only about 2% of the total housing units in Croatia are owned and managed by local self-governments, and are given for rent while the European average is 15%, so there are seven times more public apartments for rent in other EU members than in Croatia in some cities and about 60% in Zagreb, so that we already need a better financial focus on better regulation of the markets in general on a different tax framework and more finance and housing policies that go to the construction of public apartments for rent in order to be those of the most vulnerable groups of young people who work too hard, who are not creditworthy, so that they have some kind of opportunity to afford human rights, to exercise their human right to affordable housing. Not to put most of this kind of public money into profit by banks and real estate sellers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25784	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I see that my predecessor has not announced, that after we determine today, we would have done these scheduled points, we would have discussed another point, and that is the Committee's report on selection, appointments and administrative affairs, and I am only informing you of that. And now we're going to continue, and on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marina Grmat Kizivat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25785	Thank you, Vice President. I'm extremely sorry the minister isn't here right now. I'll welcome his associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans with the final bill and only in search of real estate I studied so-called. The APN loans, or this law, I've put in for and against things related to this loan. I must admit that apart from a large number of people I know, who have been both for and against, here with these amendments and the additions of the law, I admit that it is brought overnight, that there is no necessary analytical basis that would benefit from the extension of this law. I must also stress the large number of irregularities that took place during this subsidy, so I must point out those who are also known to the media as Mr. Žunić, so the head of a municipality, so Ivan Pajic, etc., simply destroys the legitimacy of this law. Muttering, muttering, and nothing but bollocks. I must stress that there is no clear answer to the question of whether this law has led to an increase in the price of real estate, although I have been following real estate prices back a few years, I must say that from my point of view, yes, the prices of real estate have increased quite well, the prices of real estate have increased quite well. The consequence of the interest rate is that the interest rate, the truth, fell, but the price of the squares has risen greatly. If we consider that in Croatia, or in the city of Zagreb, one quarter of the population lives, today a new property, a new building of an apartment in Zagreb cannot be found below 1800 euros squares, which is huge for someone who has an average salary of the Republic of Croatia. You're saying it's a natal measure. I might agree with that, but maybe if you were to share birth benefits, maybe you'd do something about it. That it may increase wages, increase employment, give young people a permanent contract. It's a big problem for young people. Then maybe these people would have the same credit ability to raise a housing loan. This way, it still leaves the impression that this measure is only for the chosen ones. There's been an earthquake. It happened to us, too, Covid. I wonder what's going to happen. That's what I asked the minister in the replica with those whose properties are affected by the earthquake? Do they still pay credit because the bank doesn't ask if there was an earthquake. Covid, many will be out of work, possibly under that measure. Maybe, and maybe they didn't even have the opportunity to raise APN's credit. I was going to ask here and the minister if he might be familiar with the Pipek family case, so I'm going to ask his associate. In fact, it's a family whose house died in an earthquake. A 9-member family, of which, parents and daughters downstairs, and a son with four underage children and women upstairs. Their house died in an earthquake and they got a red mark. That's what I said in free speech. The system's set up for them, and it's a big one. They got a faulty system instead of a red, yellow label. Afterwards, they were shouting, coming, guessing that they would finally get a red mark so they could get paid rent by the government of the Republic of Croatia, then they told them it wasn't enough because they were late. They also wrote to the Ministry, Mr Horvatu mail, 17.9., the answer was never received. I asked 22.10, I didn't get an answer. At the time of the 27th, I had the same free speech on this subject, and then Mr. Jandrokovic sent an ambulance to the minister. And today, gentlemen of the ministry, when you arrived, I expected you to bring an answer, among other things. But I didn't get a day-to-day look at the mail, I didn't get an answer. So I wonder, we're making a new set of laws, we're passing a new law, we're extending the deadline, and we're not even able to honor what we've brought. We're not able to give people what they belong to. And it also happens with APN loans. So again, we're obviously only favoring the chosen because the APN affairs didn't come from this side of the assembly. Unfortunately, they came from this side. Are we going to be honest? So let's solve what people ask you about, what do they complain about when they don't have the right to something that belongs to them? I must stress that here I will leave the question to Minister Horvato again, personally, since you are not the answer, you from the ministry, gentlemen, brought me and I'm sorry, the minister can't know everything, he doesn't have to read the mail, he doesn't have to, and these people even came to the cover of some media newspaper, daily, they were on one television. The camera broke in, so, these one television houses in your ministry, they said they knew what it was about. We've been dealing with the number that 20 of such families, they're ready to welcome and said there's only eight of them. So if there's only eight of them, why haven't you solved it already? Then they promised to do it, it was last Thursday, it's Tuesday, it's not even a boo, there's no answer, there's no call, there's no new request, there's nothing. I'm interested in who works in this ministry, who works in this town of Zagreb that simply people can't do their job? And in the end, this law might have been good if some hadn't let go of it. As for the Pipek family, please solve this problem. And as for this law, maybe if some things were different, maybe my club would be 100% for this bill. Now I'm going to leave you fellow ministers a question, and I hope by the end of the day and by the end of this debate, he comes and I beg you on behalf of this family and the other 8 as you say to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25786	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the CNS and the Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. During the entire term in the past government, focus was on the housing of young people, both at the Ministry of Construction and me personally. Young people must be our priority, and it is vital that this measure continues to be made possible in the coming years. The State subsidized the 5th. the credit war of between 30 and 51% depending on the development index where the property is purchased or where the house is built. The subsidy period shall be extended for the 2nd year added to each newborn child for the duration of the subsidy. Last year, changes to the House Loan Subsidisation Act were also passed which extended the subsidy by an additional year for each child who had a child at the time of the credit application. In practice, this means that for a family who already has two children when applying subsidies instead of 5, it will take 7 years, and if they get another child, the subsidy will last a total of 9 years. It's about subsidized loans. But we have another good measure, which I see everyone is looking for, which is POS. When we add up those who now have a roof over their heads thanks to POS and subsidized loans, we come up with more than 25,000 young families. However, most POS apartments are currently being built for sale and too little for rent. My proposal is to continue with the measure of POS, but to build more apartments for rent. The habits of young people have changed. For various reasons now is not everyone's priority of buying real estate, primarily because they often change their place of residence because of work. The rental apartments are currently too small, and I appeal to go in the direction of providing funds for the construction of such apartments which will also be more favourable than those on the market. We are all aware that the pandemic of the coronary virus has left behind uncertainty in the financial sense and the negative consequences of the economy. However, young people need to be given a roof over their heads. Let's get back to this law. This must be a demographic measure. This is the demographic measure that gave the most results. More than 17,000 families solve their housing issues this way, with this law and another tens of thousands of young families will solve their housing issues, they will have a home above their heads thanks to changes to this law. There were little 2,500 children born, but the first entry into the living space was in 2018. We know how long it takes for a child to be born, we know that young people are planning, and out of these 4,500 in the last ore application, they will only reach their properties in January, February and March. More than 2,500 children are a good result as far as demographic measures are concerned. What is the help of young families? Only 2.15 total interest is included with all credit costs, up to some banks up to 3%. It's helpful if you have a war of 3,000 kuna and the state gives you 5, 7, 9 or 15 years. He pays 50% of that war, and that price of that war is so low interest? Surely it is a help, a great help and a great interest of young families in this law. You are not even aware of how many young families await the end of this debate and are awaiting a vote Friday whether to vote to amend this law. I recommend that we all pass this law unanimously because it is a quality law, a good, good way of resolving the housing issue of young people. The incentives are higher in the rural area, smaller in urban centres. And that's why this measure doesn't have that kind of pressure on real estate prices as they say. In the latest report, about 1,000 apartments of 4 and a half requests refer to urban centres. 42% is demands for houses and building houses, it certainly does not affect the growth of real estate because we have analysis that prices of houses do not rise. So you need to do the right analysis when talking about what affects the rise in real estate prices. Today we were said to interfere with this measure in the market. No, not at all. Before we interfere with the market, when the state itself builds apartments and makes favourable offers than when it subsidizes in this way. Everyone on the market is competitive and a man himself, a young family chooses where and which apartment will buy or buy a house or where they will go to build a house. This is an optimal measure in terms of market interference and this measure is the most liberal and we are making it impossible to do so almost to end corruption. Some cases, very rare cases, why? So because it doesn't decide the APN or the minister or secretary of state who gets, who won't get, gets anyone who has a pre-contract, contract and terms in the bank and needs to look at this law in this way and should continue to support it in the future. And as for one very, very important thing that's being said here today, and that's housing policy, last year at the Department of Construction we started making housing policies. In cooperation with a number of experts, it is safe to ask for studio work and a lot of time since we are only doing it for the first time, we have no foundations, we have made them, I expect from the ministry, the ministry and all those in charge to submit the first housing policy plan for the Republic of Croatia during this year in order to see what we need and how it is based on the real analysis. Part of that housing policy I'm sure, will be subsidized apartments, in this way as it is now done, I don't believe that ever again something big will change in this law, just based on some analysis, small individual changes. Once again, appeal to all, vote this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25788	Thank you very much, we are now going to individual debates and will first speak to the respected representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25789	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I'd like to look back at something that Minister Horvat has answered in my question, so in my replica. So, what is certainly to say at the outset, that this measure will certainly be the only way to reach its real estate but Minister Horvat with dissuasion related to the research that many here mention, so the joint research of the Croatian Economic Institute in Zagreb, Kunovac-Jilić from 2020, which therefore leads to an increase in the price of real estate, but this research has thus shown that the short deadlines and the unknown number of public calls in the calendar year, the price increases mechanisms. We'd actually say something that can be very easy and solved, so I'm going to propose it in front of the Workers' Front and the Amendment, but there's no will to solve it, so doing what's set up in a public debate as a framework that people have mentioned, means being deadlines all year round, or the deadlines being known, that it's not happening that those who buy an apartment have to buy an apartment and be forced to agree to the high price of the apartment. Customers are thus, in a way, valued. To raise the price of real estate, the governor of the National Bank here a few weeks ago when counterpart Tomaševic asked him that, he responded positively, so again it surprises Horvat's response, which reads "I don't know if this is the official position of the CNB", so it was confirmed, the governor confirmed that opinion. This is a bad measure, so it's potential for a problem that's supposed to go to work. We have high housing prices, then family subsidies are helped and in principle real estate prices rise again, so public money subsidies end up as profits for building capital and real estate sellers. However, "this is not necessary" as he responded to my reply, Minister Horvat, it is not necessary for subsidies to increase the price of real estate if we know that there is an increase in the price due to a short deadline for registration and an unknown number of public calls, relatively decisive things, yes, but there is no strength or will to face a settlement of the housing issue, so that this is not changed, nor is it intended to resolve the direct cause of price hikes, and these amendments and amendments of the law will not take into account the comments obviously from the public debate. I am not afraid of the problem, what customers get as a subsidy, and what the increase in real estate prices in practice leaves directly from the state budget of the seller may also be the intention of the one who proposed this law. In this way, the implementation of this measure favoured those to whom HDZ also favours very often, and this is a building capital, banks and real estate traders and only to a small extent young families, full of the mouth of young families who continue to carry the greatest part of the increased price of real estate, is also a cynical response that was born here, so over 2,000 children, with this help and with these subsidies, these are the same children who, according to statistics, European statistics official, EUROSTAT will be somewhere until the 30th year to their parents because we are first in Europe according to this statistics. So young people from 18 to 30 are living with their parents, right? So it's inadmissible and it's not a demographic measure, the four-member families here are pushing themselves into apartments in 55 m1, and we're here at the very top of the bad statistics in Europe, so there's a very small square of these families at their disposal, and there's an even more cynical explanation in the very changes and additions to the laws that not only mention COVID that would still be understood that young families want to move out than the earthquake, so I think if it's an earthquake, then we need to rebuild those houses and those apartments and not move people where this law actually confirms that it goes to the geneticisation and tourism of the city center, which is our pain, right, forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25790	Thank you, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Peovic, you say this law pleases builders, who, entrepreneurs? And what, that's a bad thing? If it encourages the wood industry, if it encourages ceramics, glass mills, car parkers, water heaters, is that a bad thing for you? But he, first of all, respected lady, encourages and pleases young people because for 100,000 euros if they raise credit, the state subsidises with 15 000 euros on average, on average, for 15 000 euros. If that's a bad measure for you, you say, so you're against the state helping the young family to start a family, which is one of the most priority demands young people have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25792	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25793	So, I didn't say that I was against the car parkers and the wood industry, I don't know where you heard it from my presentation, but I certainly said that it's bad that the subsidies that come from the state budget are directed at real estate and even the changes and additions, so when you talk about the need for earthquakes, the consequences of the earthquake are solved in this way and otherwise the real measure would be, if it's up to young families, it means state-subsidized construction and long-term even a lifetime rent, as we have in Berlin, Vienna, Dr. Europe, it's not necessary for you to be the owner of the apartment, it's important that you have a roof over your head and otherwise it's about a fundamental human right, so it's about a fundamental human need and here you don't even address people who are credit-involve, which is already mentioned, we't even the first of the pre-determination of the people who can't answer the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25794	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25795	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you haven't found one positive thing, not a nice word about this program, about this project. Ask 17,000 young families if they could use the program or not, I'm sure it is. Furthermore, how many employees get paid thanks to the construction industry that you say are some lenders and that they will take extra profits to themselves and not hire citizens, our citizens? The construction industry has been growing continuously not only because of this project for the past 3 years, but the construction industry has always drawn every country out of the crisis, so it needs to help the construction industry now so that in the future, when the crown passes, work in a quality and good way, fill the budget and all that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25796	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25797	Well, same as the previous answer, you hear things I didn't say. I don't know where you heard it, what's the problem, and at the very beginning of your exposure, I told many young people that this would be the only way to get to the loan, but this is the drowning hug, you people are creating a problem that you're going to solve. So subsidies raise real estate prices that you then resolve with subsidies. So socio-encouragement housing is a much better and simpler way to solve the housing issue for many, by the way, the workers' front has given an amendment where exactly these 50 million kunas are redistributed to socio-incentive housing, not only has the amendment been rejected, so neither has it entered the procedure but has been rejected because as a violation of Article. 38. The budget law has already been redistributed, we are now talking out of these 50 million kunas, so clearly they have not been redistributed and it is obvious that the ruling does not want to talk at all about what the problem is with these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25798	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25799	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the presentations on behalf of the clubs, I think it feels a certain consensus and that, however, with the possible disfavor of certain clubs that this measure may need to be extended or changed, in some way I still think that until the vote itself, by Friday, we will agree, however, that this is a unique measure that fits into a particular mosaic that currently the Government of the Republic is doing and about tax reform and what we have discussed recently and about local self-government itself, and now and about the sector of construction itself, each of us who has exhibited on behalf of the clubs but I believe now, that we will open a little more local perhaps debate through these individual discussions, each of which is from their own corner, from their own point of view, from their own example and most of what I have heard from your colleagues, you have focused exclusively on major cities, I come from another largest city in Croatia, which is the city of Split that has a very large city in Dubrovnik. relatively small and yet overpriced. So this measure, however good it is for a city in Split, is a question of how much it can help a family. Fortunately, when we look at a large number of our families, it has a certain property or land in its private possession and it saves the whole thing. When we look at only a particular family, even if it's two doctors from non-essential Valpova, Požega, Osijek and decide to live, we talk a lot about mobility, we don't have to talk about just international mobility, we can talk about mobility that someone from Slavonia wants to live in Dalmatia because he likes Dalmatia, wants to work there, maybe work to advance, a young family that has nothing to live in a city of Dubrovnik or a city of Split, when we look at only the price and life and housing if you don't have some prerequisites or if you don't already have a prepared apartment. This is a measure by the Ministry of Construction which has made a certain framework and assistance and when we see the amounts, on average the amount of loans, the years of repayment and the people who have raised, we see that, however, rural areas have raised these loans the most and that this is one measure where our decade-long goal is to bring young families back to rural areas, a little decentralisation of Croatia, not everything should take place in Split, Zagreb, Rijeka or Osijek. It is important to stress that these are not the only measures, it is important to point out that this measure may not be a major success in the city of Split, but with this measure, for example. The POS measure is more adequate perhaps for the city of Split and we may use it better, better or in some way. As far as the Split-Dalmatia County itself is concerned, here are these 4gs. Nearly 1,000 young families have settled their housing issues this way, but we have not stopped there. We know this is the main problem of Split and Split-Dalmatia County. That is why it is the Split-Dalmatia County itself, and what the Ministry of Civil Engineering needs to encourage our local environments to design along with this and their programs. That is why we have in Split-Dalmatia County the first way to co-finance and build and adapt houses called the project "Here is your home". We have among the first municipalities such as the Klis municipality, and here I have set an example from the Sibenik-Knin town of Drniš, which among the first to buy land or prepare their own land or redeploy state land, prepare the terrain, municipal infrastructure and give them a long-term lease with the possibility of buying out to young families. And with laws like this, with these local measures, I think we can achieve our goal in due course. Why is this measure good and why are all these measures that I mentioned, such as “Here is your home” and what is happening, for example. in the municipality of Klis good because we see a year-by-year rapid increase in interest and a rapid increase in demand from the local population and, and young families. So I'm definitely appealing this one more time here on my own behalf, and I also appealed on behalf of the club to send that clear message to our young families, to support this law, to support this measure and to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25800	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25801	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I think this is a good law, or good measure in terms of subsidizing housing loans, that it's not good for 4 years. Not more than 17,000 young families would solve their housing problems. At the same time, the state has been in the past 4 years. As in the next 3rd year. totalling more than 400 million kuna for subsidies, which says it directly helps solve housing problems. But here's what you mentioned to JLS, so I'm asking you whether JLS and County should also develop their own housing programs on their territory, in their own territory, whether through the assignment or subsidisation of the purchase of building land or building a house, apartment, buying an apartment or building an upgrade of the house itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25802	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25803	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Begonja, for this comment and replica. I deliberately mentioned local self-government. Here you are, the mayor of the city I mentioned, because here I am from Miljevac, so I know a little state from Sibenik-Knin County. Absolutely along with this whole framework that the state is working, with all the measures that the state is doing, local self-government must be there definitely more active and we see certain cities and municipalities that they are quite active according to that plan. So much land is owned by both municipalities and cities that I don't mention apartments of certain properties, not to mention state-owned land that isn't in office. Here through the Ministry of State Property now attached to the construction industry I think we should definitely make it available to JLS, make it easier for them to make it easier for them, and they must simply prepare and pitch it and give it to young families in order to keep them in their own regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25804	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25805	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, you pointed out that rural areas are suffering the most because of demographic decline, the worst image is in smaller places, in smaller municipalities. And this law provides for measures in which young families could build their homes, giving it a house or an apartment in such areas. So on the one hand, we have a proposal for measures to fix the situation in smaller rural areas, and on the other hand we hear criticism that precisely because of such measures, prices for squares, interest prices and so on, you can explain your position a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25806	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25807	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Striker. As for this measure and the whole history we've seen since 2011 to this day, it would have been great if it had lasted until 2011, if it hadn't been broken up and it had lasted until today. I think we would now have 40-50,000 young families who, in this way, have achieved their right to their home in the last decade. Unfortunately, she's been interrupted and everything we've been swearing to in recent years, and it's back our young people in rural areas, we stop moving, in some debates here on behalf of clubs, we've been based on big cities again, and I think as much as it is a measure for big cities, and I think as much as it is a measure for big cities, there's still a great emphasis on rural areas where with some loan that's here on average 60 000 euros, you can certainly claim your right to your home where we come from, maybe you can't buy probably even a garage place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25808	The next replica of MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25809	So here's one, I mean the affirmative question, a little conflict with your exposure means if you say a lot of families came out of the country, so in rural areas they don't have the possibility of starting a family, they don't have the possibility of buying an apartment, building a house, etc., but what there is as a problem here is more what the MPs pointed out, to raise the prices of apartments, real estate by this measure. Isn't it our goal to make real estate as cheap as possible? And is this the only model that we can provide young people with apartments and houses if we consider that there is socio-incentive housing? You mentioned that many young people can happily live with their parents because they have apartments, so they have socialism where 1/3 of the apartments were in the hands of people, or social housing. So we and Romanians are the highest signs on that private property scale over some real estate. So there are other models of socio-incentive housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25810	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25811	Thank you, Vice President. So like this, colleague Peovic, I believe that you consider the socialist model the best and that we should now share apartments here and I will not get into it, I just want to warn you that there are no more regimes, that there are no large combinations, that there are no large SORS, ORs, that can share apartments with our citizens and our young families, but that's why we are here. I didn't say what you mentioned about some kind of eviction, I mentioned only one example to the young family, for example. from Slavonia, fathers live in Split or Dubrovnik and which can cause difficulties. I believe and agree with you that this is not the only model, so I mentioned local self-government. We have here and the commissioners here from the Iotian region, from Cetinski, from Sibenik-Kninska, from all parts of Croatia, I believe that they and the Office for Demography and Youth but also from the Ministry, what I have appealed, will receive clear instructions and relief to make their countries available to young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25812	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure raised a respected representative, Peovic, in what way is he injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25813	Injury of Rules of Procedure, 238, in accordance with Art. In 238, it means disdaining the MP and, secondly, not holding the topic that was asked as a question. I'd like to pray that the MP and refrain from his grades and others to answer the question he was asked. There's something else that's been talked about here, nobody here has celebrated real existing socialism, that we understand each other, but I've talked about the model and that you're not even able to connect two data, which is why these people have these properties and where they come from. It's called a historical line, not some representation of real socialism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25814	Okay, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Bačić could also feel hurt now that you told him that he was unable to connect, etc., therefore, because he is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning and the next replica will be respected by MPs Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25815	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, you have expressed hope or optimism that this law will be voted unanimously on Friday, of course not because whatever good proposal comes from the ruling, for the opposition finds reasons, clearly not in the law itself, but simply because they oppose. If we say that this law needs to be passed for 5 years, it means that there is a great interest in these young people, it means that the law is well set and that the loan subsidy has achieved its purpose. If, together with POS and other measures, more than 20,000 young people will solve the housing issue, and if 5, 7 to 9 years and more have a 50% subsidized credit war, I think the role of the state here is extremely significant and positive. And just for the end, 2500 children, it's very cynical. Peovic characterised it by saying that they will live with their parents in these apartments for 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25816	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25817	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Murganić, for this replica, I agree with you, normally, there is an opposition to criticise, there is an opposition to maybe make some suggestions, we have not seen any specific proposals on this law, okay, it was. There will be a few amendments that the ministry will probably review and respond to but here, the main criticism and I am glad that you mentioned the number of children related to this measure born or adopted, the main criticism of this law that because of it is the increased price of the real estate market square in the Republic of Croatia, I absolutely disagree with it, it is nowhere near accurate, only when we look at the statistics of the last 15, 20 years, I repeat, I am looking at this from the territory of the city of Split and where I come from, I don't think this law is even guilty of why it has doubled or even more the price of apartments, for example. in the town of Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25818	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25819	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law itself and its model were before me, so I don't need to point out what kind of model it is in these short five minutes. What I would say is, this model was defined by law in 2011 at a time when there was a major crisis and when on the Croatian market there was a huge number of unsold apartments as a result of the then economic and financial crisis in the world, and in Croatia and then we came out with this law and immediately sold 2325 apartments there were and he should continue as this government is now doing, but when the SDP government came, she cut it off, she forgot, she put it in a drawer and there was no model. And it's a good thing that our government came back with this again. We often hear a comparison of this model to the POS model. I also respect the minister's efforts to encourage and build apartments in POS, but in what is the fundamental difference between this House Loan Subsidisation Act and POS's apartments? First, as the yearly view is in 6th year, so 2011 and 2012. when it stopped valid, so it wasn't continued, so in '17, '18, '19, '20, 6th. according to this model was sold these 17,700 which says here and those 2,325 which are not mentioned, a total of 20,000 apartments, 20,000 apartments in 6g. is 3,300 apartments per year on average. According to the POS, which started in 2002. According to the POS, 8,500 apartments were sold, let's say 900, maybe some new data, now I don't have, 900 divided by 18 is about 500, 500 apartments a year. Well, now that it's measured as acceptable, which is more attractive, I think that data speaks enough, but I don't want to say that we should stop with POS. What's another good thing about this law, this law is a classic example of One-Stop-Shop, One-Stop-Shop means that a young man, a family, a person comes into the banks and everything is settled. As long as this state in POS has to hire people, in the state administration, in APN, in local self-government, in a person who wants to identify himself and through this apartment buys, resolves his living issue. You come here to the bank and the system, the state works for you, there's no tour, there's no waste of time, there's nothing. At the end of the bank's report, you met the conditions and at that price, with such a subsidy, you got, got, got and solved the housing issue. As for the impact of this law on higher prices, the price of real estate in Croatia, in part, encourages an increase in prices. But let's just be a little bit more informed about the data, and we'll see to what extent and to what extent. So 2019. 41,000 apartments or houses have been sold in Croatia, these are official data from the State Statistics Office. In this model, 4,100 apartments were sold last year, in this model, 10% of all apartments in Croatia went through this model. Well, now, if 10% of the flats sold can define the price of all 100% of the apartments, then I'm not really with math. I say that it certainly gives its small contribution because it places apartments on the market under great conditions and investors recognize it, but it dramatically raises the price, because I don't agree with anyone, so he was the governor of the National Bank, so he was the governor of the National Bank even though he didn't say it at the end. So this model allows young people to borrow, remember, out of EUR 100,000 the state manages the apartment on their own cost, arranges the apartment completely, furniture, kitchen, the whole apartment equipment with this model because it's calculated that in one average JLS where it's over 40, about 40% of the war, and not 50% of what's in the most developed, but let's take an average of 40, so it's not 30, or 50, about 15,000 euros in the country, and I'm not saying if it gets one, two or three kids, then it increases another 2, and 4, so it's 6. So this law doesn't need to be done at all. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25820	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas, so there's gonna be a chance. He is the first respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25821	Here's my thanks and I'm glad you've agreed with the governor now that this measure is increasing. contributes to an increase in real estate prices. So now we're just arguing as much, but here I'm glad you admitted that because I've been warning about this for years, before I was a parliamentary agent and I don't care who brought the first such measure and such a model. What I can tell you is that there's been a major shift in housing policy under quotes because it's at 20. POS spent one billion kuna on the 8,500 apartments, and in the 4th year. With this measure, it is promised to spend the same amount as about a billion kuna. So the next year, when we get the new demands, we'll be able to pay off, if we don't get any new demands after that, about a billion kuna. So you gave up POS, but not POS for sale, what we're saying is that the whole of the EU, so they're not idiots, have 7 times the public housing fund for rent. Because that's what we finance construction, with this rent, new rental apartments. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25822	We have a response from the esteemed representative Bačić. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25823	Comrade Tomasevic, first of all, you should know that every state intervention on the market brings a disturbance on the market. There's no state in which the state doesn't intervene, and here the state intervenes, that's the first thing. The other thing, nobody's stopping JLS, you should know, she's a POS organizer, not a state. JLS determines POS, determines the list, defines, solves property legal relations together with APN then goes into realisation, that's another thing. And the third thing, where did you get the information that he didn't have, that he didn't have any apartments to rent? So look at the pages, enter the APN pages. Enter the pages... Of what? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Hire? ... So go to the APN pages and you'll see what, what, how many, how many, how many, how many possible rentals are open, but the fact is that young people, while we're talking, are waiting for this measure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] If you're against helping young people to, to solve their living issue, that's okay, that's your legitimate right, but we're not at it, in that position. We are in a position to help young people through this law and that is the best measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25824	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25825	I would like to thank the Vice President and the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. The opposition can say what it wants, but this model has an interest because it is an indicator of 17,000 apartments where 17,000 young families and 2,500 children were born. We have to do everything possible to get this law passed as soon as possible so that young people can go back to the competition so that they can create a roof over their heads. What I may have wanted to do here is to find, in addition to living care, opportunities to create new jobs, that young people who have a roof over their heads, have the right to work and have a decent life in ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25826	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25827	I thank my colleague Simičević. On this topic that we have already opened, which refers to whether the pos or better POS dilemma, this model is better, does not mean that POS should be rejected. However, I encourage POS, and as minister, we have taken new measures to facilitate the resolution of the POS. But you know what came out? You with POS, whether or not you want to, you getoize. And you, the man in POS, give him a location. This is where a man chooses his location. And that's one advantage of this law. He here determines where, for example, he will buy that apartment in Split and then with that investor, entrepreneur or whatever, I say... He's making the terms and then he's just getting into the realisation of this apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I agree with you, so here are a number of benefits that go towards young people, and evidence of that, as you said, is introductory to a large number of interested young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25828	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25829	Dear colleague Bacic, I have said several times from here that all you have to do is listen to what people say and they say everything they think. So at the beginning of your presentation, you made it quite clear why you brought this measure in 2011. You brought it in because the apartments weren't sold because construction was in crisis because the banks had problems. That's why you brought this measure in, and that measure helped at that point, let's call the real estate sector and the banks to see a crisis disintegrated. All this other stuff has been coming up like that, literally coming up, that right now, today it's talking about that 17,000 people in all these years have solved their problem. Those 17,000 people, compared to how many? In this range of 18 to 45, there are a million and 200 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia. We should, when we're thinking Take care of all of them. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25830	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25831	I thank my colleague Brumnic. Yes, it was a different time, but there was this law and then he had another measure, and given the crisis that we were going through, it was a very uncertain job for whoever, young person, above all, who took credit for the purchase of the apartment, then the state followed it with a guarantee that in the event of losing his job, he would sell or be certain that the state would follow the applicant for another 4 years that he could, that he could pay off the loan war and that was one of the social measures. However, this law has been upgraded. It has been upgraded to a number of good, well, this law has been upgraded, with a number of good incentives which, having one social component and that law which originally had both social and real assistance, above all and aid to entrepreneurs, has been upgraded with a number of elements and norms and provisions that have helped to make this law social.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25832	The next replica is respected... Representative Bačić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ante Bačića.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25833	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you compared POS and this measure. And I absolutely agree the figures are definitely on this scale and especially when we take the initiative of young people, where in POS they are forced by certain locations certain conditions, here still a young family, a young person can take into his own hands a lot of it, when looking to meet his family needs, whether this apartment, whether this house. But I'm deliberately also in my debate, here, I'd like to ask you, when you were a minister, I think there's still some lack of initiative on the part of local self-government. And related to POS, but also to other measures that can keep young people in their municipalities and cities and give them a certain initiative to resolve their housing issue. So, definitely in some environments, maybe POS needs to push harder, maybe more ideal than this measure, but it definitely needs to return the local self-government initiative to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25834	Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25835	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. You're right. I know when POS started in 2002, 2003, that units of local self-government, some units of local self-government, I know, for example, that the city of Zadar is part of the fee that the future owner of the apartment has to pay to give up, and when it comes to infrastructure and when it comes to ownership of land, which then leads to a fall in the value of that apartment, so I agree that the initiative that the POS carries with it and can carry local self-government, units of local self-government, is very important. Well then, and in a way that by building these apartments, it goes to rent, to help young people who are unable to start and start a work relationship or have no job for sure, but there I would also add to the measure where we freed these young people from income tax up to 25 years, and from 25 to 30 another 50% of income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25836	The next replica is the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25837	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative, in small areas, young people are mostly oriented, so in rural areas they are focused on building houses, and less on buying apartments and it is undeniable that law that has its benefits and helped in the past period, I believe and future. However, we are looking here on the one hand at solving the housing issue of young people, but we also have other benefits, which is helping the economy, primarily the manufacturers of construction materials, traders and ultimately the builders to do so, thus providing jobs in these Covid times, which is extremely important, so I would like your comment precisely on the subject of helping and economics through this vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25838	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25839	I thank my colleague Begonja, that's right. That's what I said in my introduction, that when he was brought here in the Parliament, that original law, that he was directed and helped entrepreneurs. I am convinced, therefore, through this model and POS, that this is actually a contribution to construction, assistance to the construction sector and through the construction sector is involved in a very large number of other activities, and stone-claves and wooden and parking and wood industry, etc., so that, in any case, it is a measure that promotes the economy, primarily construction. I liked what Mr. Stromar said earlier, and I expect us to come out here with a housing policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, we forget that in addition to these two measures, there are still measures of housing savings, housing savings that have been reduced for a time are compensations for all housing savings in Croatia but through this policy that Mr. Štromar said earlier, it is also necessary to make sure that it is possible to return that measure and help build apartments and resolve housing issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25840	Thank you. The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25841	So here's what it means is that you really need to help young people, it's very simple to help. So it's enough to just intervene in these amendments and additions to the laws that will allow you to know in advance for a year when the competition is called. So it was found that the rise in real estate prices is precisely because of the short period when young people have to buy real estate because they are forced into high housing prices. Yes, every intervention of the state has some reaction on the market, only it's quite obvious that you don't have the intensity to sell apartments and buy cheap apartments to young people, but to bargain with banks and the real estate sector. And when you say there's a lot of apartments to rent, but at what price? You've passed a law on digital nomads the other day, the rich Americans who come here to rent apartments but our people can't rent an apartment anymore because they don't have money, they can't afford it. They don't have a permanent job, and they don't have a salary that allows them to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25842	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25843	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peovic. So this part about the terms, the deadlines in which the law will be implemented, I think now with the law, when we have projected that the law goes until 2023, has sent a clear message to both the ministry and the APN that it should be done in a very transparent time when it will be implemented. But when I listen to you, when you say that 15 000 euros is given to a young person who is not for him but for the bank, then for you is an increase in personal income, encouraging maybe retailing and not family members who have children or I don't know what you think, then who is the end-user when we cut someone's taxes, is that again not directed to a young man but directed to someone whom that young man is going to spend? I don't know what approach you have here, it goes directly to the citizens, and it's to a young family or a young Croatian citizen who is the user of this loan and what you see in that you see some of the cool stuff, that's your thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25844	Thank you. Dear Representative Saric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25845	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. So here's to congratulating the 20,000 settled housing issues of young families in this period since you initiated it as minister is a confirmation of good measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25846	Comrade Tomasevic, how many times do I have to tell you that he doesn't throw himself out of the bench? I'm asking you nicely, next time I'll warn you to do it, you can't keep talking from the bench. Anyone could do that. We can make it out of that, total party. Excuse me, colleague Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25847	So, this measure says that in this period of time since it has been in force, three times as much housing issues of young families have been resolved than it has been through a POS measure which, of course, needs to be supported and maintained. This measure is also economical, it develops entrepreneurship or building operations and everything that is related to it but has one particular importance, and that is to keep young people where they live. In my opinion, she is a strong demographic measure and needs to be continued and she is amazing because I lost 5 seconds, I find it amazing to have an easy finding of my colleague Peovic, as it is a bargain. Yes, fellow Peovic, 2000 young families who stayed living where they settled their housing issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25848	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25849	Thank you. Col. Sarić, what is good and perhaps less prominent in this law, mentioning apartments that are mostly the result of such a law or the sale of such apartments, what I would particularly point out, it is the construction of family houses, and it is precisely in rural areas where young people are allowed through this kind of solving of credit opportunities, building houses there not to emigrate, to stay in the place where they were born. That's good, I'd be interested, I don't have that report, but for example, if I had a 2020 report where 8,000 apartments were sold this year, I'd be interested in family houses, and I'm very interested in what it is, what kind of review it is, where it's located and we've heard that the average age of the buyer of the apartment in this model is 33 years, it's saying enough in itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25850	The next replica is the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25851	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, yes, I find the incredible imagination that our particular parliamentary representatives have when we want to say that everything that is good, all efforts, all measures and all laws go in the direction of helping our young people, our young families to aim and social and demographic measures, belittled. You mentioned that the law was passed first, in 2011 and I would be reminded of all the critics that the first parental compensation increased us, 1.7.2017, after 9 years from 2600 and that in the 4th month. In 2019, it amounts to a parental fee of 5660. And this, with a number of demographic measures, is certainly the subsidisation of these housing loans is one of the best aid to young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25852	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25853	Thank you, fellow Murganic. But that logic is not clear to me either, when you help young people with 15 thousand euros in return for a 100 thousand-euro loan, then by them, you help the bank. When you raise your wages, then obviously you're not helping the worker, but the mall where he's going to spend that money. When you're helping farmers, you're not helping them, you're helping agricultural equipment manufacturers. Or when you help fishermen, you do not help fishermen, but help those who produce their boats and equipment. Here, that's the philosophy that I've realized today, and that's what I'm going to end up with, it's not clear to the end. I think it's this way of helping, helping, above all, young people to solve one of the most important problems of life, and that's the problem of housing, that's the question of housing, that's the measure that's welcome and we have to support it. And if it is to be upgraded, it needs to be upgraded every year, and this year we build on it, and next year we might be able to upgrade it, but it's actually good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25854	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25855	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. Here, most of us here, I think it agrees that this is a good bill. And it's really hard to really listen to the attempt by some of the parliamentary representatives here to demean the importance of this law in all possible ways, or the measures it adopts. Especially these statements that have been coming out lately, that are suitable for the construction sector. So 20 thousand young families in these, as you yourself have said for six years, have indeed shown that this law is good. My colleague Begonj has already mentioned, so this law drags along a certain economic stopper. So I don't understand why the construction sector would create with you these negative connotations, and you said yourself, he drags behind him both the car parkers and the painters and the builders, the carpenters, the middle craftsmen, so those who produce furniture, etc., therefore, this law does not only give a certain demographic stopper but indirectly and economically... It does good for the whole economy, especially in these times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25856	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25857	You're right, fellow Habiban. So, surely this one, the funds are primarily intended for young people, but as a consequence, we encourage construction, construction, is that something, there's bad in that? When a contractor is encouraged, he has a large number of employees there. In 2008, more than 145 thousand people were employed in Croatian construction entrepreneurs, 2008 and 2009 when the crisis came to an end, the number of employees fell to 90,000. Thanks, among other things, to this law and to the numerous investments of others, today this number of employees and workers in the sector is climbing again to about 120, 130,000 employees and these measures when we help the entrepreneur, we also help them and those people who are employed there, and it does not need to be avoided that the number of more jobs sold will be for entrepreneurs, but there will be more work for the employees. And then I think it should be supported, I don't see what's wrong with you and entrepreneurs going through this kind of subsidisation have more work to do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25858	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25859	... Vice President, Mr. President of the Ministry. [[Specially enabled.]] Here the first question to be asked is why are we passing this law. This law on what colleagues on the right say, we bring in to help young families, I said in the replica of my colleague Bačić that, we helped 17 thousand of them out of the million and 200 that belong in the category 18 to 45 that could use it. And then the question is whether those two and three percent we helped led to what should have been the intensity of this law. There, in 2011, the law reached its goal, started the real estate market, and I have to admit, that's when with the explanation you had, that the real estate market should be launched, it was logical. Today when we pass a law like this, I have said today on the board, what we lack, we lack a property management strategy in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. housing policy related to the property management strategy because the Republic of Croatia still has relatively large assets. And then when you think about it that way, then you think about when someone first mentioned such a housing policy, and then you realize that it was there back in 1944, in one of the world's most liberal countries, where that cruel capitalism that thinks the market solves everything. Yes, in that country, their president said in 1944 that it wasn't enough to have political and human rights, but that there should be someone else, who is so much called economic rights and has brought a declaration called Second Bill of Rights. And then he listed it among them, right to work and decent pay, freedom from monopoly, right to housing, medical protection, social security and education. So one of the six things was the right to the residence of every man living in that country. And then we need to ask ourselves if this is the law we're dealing with. Whether in this country, every resident of this country, whether young or old, but primarily it's a youth problem, has the right to a decent residence. The architects long ago calculated how much a man needs for a normal apartment, so they said 30 squares for.../incomprehensible/... 30, or 45, as in which rule, plus 10 to 15 per member of the family. This law doesn't solve it. This law tries to solve for a certain part, I will even say, half-privileged young people because they are those young people who can even afford the fact that they are creditworthy. Over the past four years, you've solved 17,000 of them, at the same time in the Republic if we say that those who are 18 are going to be 45,000, we come to the conclusion that 180,000 people in that period, let's say, should have somehow left the parents' home and settled the housing issue. We solved the problem for only 17,000 of them and there's the problem. We without housing policy in this country that will clearly define what our goals are and how these goals are achieved, we will do nothing. I'm saying, this is a semi-flammable measure that only benefits some, it doesn't solve what's essentially the problem of this society. And young people who are now in debt for 500, 600 euros a month, which would not have been better if this country had allowed them to live in a local unit or state apartment for 100 euros and these 400 euros could save and think for themselves how to go on? Here's what I see... It's a replica, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25860	The Republic has a respected representative, Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25861	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, surely we should have a housing plan and that is the mistake of all previous governments that it didn't go at all but she passed the government where my party was also a coalition partner to the SDP has stopped everything that was possible to address the housing issue of young people, in particular 20 thousand young people could have solved their housing issue. And now that we have this model, that's not good. I think we need to help young people, solve the problem of young people, make a living policy, and then what all models exist to help young people. I'm sure it's POS's lease that it's going to be plan number one, but we need to let them have their own property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25862	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25863	Dear colleague Stromar, I don't know what to say to you, your party led the ministry that was in charge. Now that you've all told yourself how incompetent you were then and you're probably still now, I can't say. And as for the whole solution in this country, until the moment that clear housing policy is passed, until that housing policy comes into this House, until it knows what we want to achieve, this is a palatable measure that can only be used by one who can raise a loan. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25864	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25865	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is a housing policy that must lead a future policy, a way to address the housing issue not only of young people but of all people, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When it was an idea but only for housing policy, when we wanted to do and solve energy renovations of all public buildings and all households, it was braked in that government, we weren't allowed to have a younger partner do anything in that direction, and that's why I'm sure we're carrying a consensus because we didn't fight harder for it, but three, 500 years ago, we started to make housing policies that would be made, but we have to be aware that it's not easy to do analysis in these current conditions, but we've solved a housing issue for 17,500 young families and we should keep this in mind and we should continue to do so. We can't now because we don't have housing policies, which will only be passed in a year, year and a half, stop this project, this quality, good project that young people are waiting for so they can solve their housing issue. The term when it will be and it is known, young people know, prepare, negotiate with potential builders who build apartments, with people in the real estate sector, talk about it but also prepare building permits. This is amazing, but 42% are buying houses or building completely new ones. We have one thesis to just buy apartments in the centers of the cities. 20 and which percent of the apartments in Zagreb, in the centre of Zagreb, there are no such pressures elsewhere, and I think it should be possible in this housing policy to allow existing houses in rural areas that are currently devastated because for several years no one has lived in them, to enable this loan to buy that house but to fully edit that house, arrange for a normal, quality life for our people. That part should be more and stronger encouraged and we are aware today that many people prefer to go live in the rural part, outside the center, outside that urbanized center because it is a more pleasant and beautiful life when you are not in the center. The centre brings some benefits, but much greater advantages in terms of health and more pleasant life brings the rural part. Let's do this policy, let's think together, let's put all the cards on the table, all the thinking and make the right document that we'll be able to help our people in a good way. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25866	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25867	I'm interested in my colleague Stromar, I'm not absorbing the responsibility of all governments so far, including the SDPs. But I wonder what, I mean, you were the minister in the last government, what prevented you from bringing housing policy? I did it, publicly advocated it, and I was five years ago. When I was solving my housing issue, I wasn't creditworthy, I wasn't creditworthy. I'm looking at all my friends who are being tortured, overworked, and they're not credited, and the market, the price of renting wild, wild and wild, and there's no more money, because we're talking about priorities here, 17,000 families on the one hand have solved the housing issue, and what about those 100,000 young people who don't have access to those measures? Well, they'd all sign up if there were other programs, but you see how much money went from POS, so the APN of 90 million kuna was only 10% realised in 2019.? That was during your term of office. Why did that happen? Who's to blame? Local self-government? Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25868	Thank you. Dear Representative Stromar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25869	Dear Parliamentarian, make housing policies within a few months or six months is not smart at all, minimum 2 to 3g. So a year and a half are working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25870	Comrade Tomašević, I now warn you of... That's enough of that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25871	The profession is included, we're doing an analysis, and now in the next year we should bring housing policies. No one before I came to the ministry raised that question at all, we just started working on it. And I expect that we'll all do it very well together. There will certainly be a public debate and a wider community will be involved in making these policies. Let's work constructively on it. And as for POS, here's what I'm gonna tell you. I'm sure very little POS will be built for reasons because limited prices per square and our entrepreneurs can't work for those prices per square.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25872	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25873	Dear Representative Štromar, it is actually unthinkable for me that you are unable to bring housing policy, and you are able to implement measures and convince the public that it is something phenomenal and good. It's actually unimaginable for me that you can say it so inexplicably, it's known when measures go, that certain users agree and discuss with the construction sector, so when subsidies are approved, they will reach their apartments and their properties. I'm interested in when all of this is known and it's phenomenal, you knew at least how young the total number was, there was a general population who needed these measures, and they're not available because it comes down to the quickest finger method. Have you at least established this since 2011 how much interest subsidy is being made, so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25874	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25875	Well, here's a respected parliamentary attorney, and that's why housing policies are being done. That is why, and when housing policies are adopted, they are adopted on the basis of an analysis. And I'm against breaking up with this measure that exists now because citizens expect us to continue with that measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25876	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25877	Dear Representative Štromar, I believe that you are also aware as a former minister, and most of us here that demographic image is currently the worst in small rural areas, in small places where a large number of young people leave not only for the reasons of housing, inability to care but also for the inability to hire, etc. And that these very environments should be our priority in some way to solve these housing problems so that we can keep these young people there. This law is indeed on the right track to do so, but I think that only in synergy with the measures implemented by units of local self-government and regional administrations in their areas that are significantly different, different from administration to administration, i.e. the cities and municipalities themselves, which are the best measures for their territory and are implementing them. They are from buying building land which is often very cheap in these small rural areas to direct financial assistance for young families who buy the first real estate. It's the only synergy I think we can achieve... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25878	Thank you. Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25879	It is certain that the mayors and mayors, especially in smaller municipalities with lower indices of development, can have a strong impact on how to live and how to address the housing issue in their municipality. Many commissioners, high-quality chiefs used POS measures, exploited these measures, and young people found their accommodation, their home exactly if they were active commissioners. The APN also helped them intensively. And the changes from two years ago. The loan subsidy law has just allowed the subsidy to be the largest in these municipalities, even 51% with the development index, 1 with the lowest development index, and we have visible results in the last 2.g. how much more real estate is sold or built exactly in such areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25880	Dear Representative Brumnic has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25881	Dear colleague Stromar, I'm glad you've at least realized that housing policy is the key to everything that needs to be done before such measures are taken. And we were on the same board, you were chairing it when I said that these measures were perfectly logical to me for rural environments and that I think that the incentives should be there and bigger than this because in fact the cost of housing these people there, no matter how cheap the house can be, that house when you build it, especially when you build it, you can't sell it for as much as it cost to build, and you're still away from the center of somewhere you work, so to say, within this measure, encouraging that life outside of the big urban centers is something that's logical, but without housing policy, all of this is a pure opportunity for individuals who can afford it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25882	Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25883	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic, you have well noticed on the board should be more subsidized by those who buy or build their property in a rural area with a lower development index. That's what we saw at the first competition, so that's exactly why we went into a change of law and already before 2. That's exactly what we've built into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25884	The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25885	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, therefore, the figures, the figures of this measure and this law are clear, so somewhere around 20,000 young families, 2,500 newborns or adopted children, the average age of these young people 33 years, so I would say a more productive age, and what is very important and I am glad that you mentioned this, in our discussions we neglected a little bit, so we focused on, on subsidising the credit for apartments, we didn't mention enough construction, credit subsidies for family homes, there was reconstruction, there was construction of new ones, and of course it was an extremely strong measure especially in rural areas and measures aimed at empowering local communities, especially those with a lower index of development, and this is one in a series of innovative measures of this government that will only next time show its effects. And what we didn't talk about, and should be added, the effects of tax reform precisely for young people in addition to this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25886	Thank you. Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25887	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarians, you are absolutely right and on this trail should still be and should think about how to help young people and in rural areas with lower indices of development precisely and because of higher costs and yet somewhat more difficult life, but much nicer than in urban areas. And I hope that here we will bring this amendment to the law, primarily because it could be further subsidized and implemented, because we know in the current law the deadline is 31.12. and that is why the ministry, we have already begun this proposal in the 3rd month of this year to change the end of the '20s and to make it possible in '21, '22. and '23. It's that model of solving the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25888	And the last replica of the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25889	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Stromar. I agree with your debate and I congratulate you on what you did and did as a minister, and the result is 2,000 resolved during your time period, 2,000 settled housing issues of young families, but especially 42% of family homes. In fact, what is especially important to me, I repeat, that is how we keep young families and young people where they live. And here you mentioned a very important detail, and I'm going to refer it to the area of Slavonia, it's a question of residential or abandoned houses. Unfortunately, today Slavonia is full of abandoned family old houses and those houses that are still conditional and good for your living. I also believe in this measure, and in particular with special policy, housing policy and special law, that we will resolve this in my opinion a very important issue and in some ways unite all those measures that make municipalities, cities and counties into one common policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25890	Thank you. Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25891	Well, here's an interesting situation in this last competition. Nearly 10% of all subsidies, all the subsidized loans that were accepted is right in Osijek-Baranja County, close to 10% of all and should be further intensities of the ministry and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25892	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop for a little bit of ventilation, and then we'll see each other again at 15 and 55. It's 3:39 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.58 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25894	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here today we heard a series of maybe reasons why this law is not good, and I think we're discussing a law that has a good and really concrete effect and I'm going to try to explain it from my point of view. This has all been implemented since 2017, and so far more than 17 thousand subsidized loans have been granted. We've heard all this, but I have to repeat that I personally regret that he hasn't been here since 2013, and that's what you'll hear the reasons when I explain it further. I would like to point out that this Law seeks to help citizens, and this is a fundamental measure of this programme for our young citizens, young families, to acquire housing or to facilitate their purchase of their first real estate. The interest in use is very high, especially in the middle where I come from. However, this law also recognises a measure for the demographic recovery of society in such a way as to extend the subsidy period by two additional years for each newborn child during the duration of the subsidy, and last year the amendments to the laws by which the subsidy per child is extended at the time of the application for credit. And that means that for a family that, for example, There are two children on the application of subsidies to be 7, not 5 years, and if they get another child, the subsidy will last 9 years. Statistics show that more than two and a half thousand children have been born in families using these subsidies so far. Amendments are constantly improving this measure as well as the impact and should, in fact, be the best effect of this Act and these measures. That's what today's debate is about. I also look forward to the fact that the Law also takes care of people with disabilities, and it is proof that we also care about vulnerable groups from our society. When we talk about additional support, of course, we should mention the urban regeneration of the settlement or the transformation of abandoned and unused spaces and one of the ways of reducing the emigration of young families, which is certainly the most impressive in Slavonia. As a result, it is also an important amount of subsidy that depends on the development index of the place where the real estate is purchased or built and moves from 30 to the most developed, up to 51% for the 1st group of developments. We are all aware that precisely less developed groups need additional support from any level, and evidence is also an increase of over 200% in less developed areas. I must point out that certain municipalities and cities, especially from my county, and the City of Pakrac, where I come from, help young families resolve their housing issues in order to keep young people in the area. Just yesterday in Pakrac, 50 young families received financial assistance contracts for housing that weigh about half a million kuna. All similar programs coordinate hierarchically from the top i.e. from state institutions, all the way down to local levels, I expect more similar programmes that can be complemented from state to local level. We need such synergy in order for various measures to actually have our desired effect. When we talk about less developed areas of our homeland, I must say that the prices of real estate have not increased in these areas. In large cities, housing prices may grow, but in rural areas, that's not the case. Croatia is from Ilock to Prevlaka and let's not generalise it. We also talked about the amounts, so here is a comparison of the amount of annuity and the payment plan of the subsidized loan and loans realised without the use of the subsidy, and it is obvious that this way subsidisation really makes it easier for the purchase of real estate and that those who use subsidies make savings on average of 17 thousand per year, and over 4 years almost 70 thousand kuna, and I found these indicators in a 2017 survey. So we're talking about real estate price growth, but I'm saying that there are housing in Slavonia, there are houses, there are dwellings that are unused, and I think that these measures and this very synergy that I've been talking about from the local level we can re-retaliate that rural space. We have secured another €263.5 million in the state budget and projections for 2022 and 23 additional 50 million. It is a guarantee for the deadline set out in Article 1 of these amendments that we need to give our full support, for many young families are expecting it from us right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25895	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25896	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in your debate, you pointed out that this Law and everything we are talking about right now is actually one of the demographic measures actually directed primarily towards young people, and then to demographic restoration. Since here, among other things, is the extension of subsidies depending on the number of children and certainly the amount of the subsidy depends on the index of the development of a particular area and that is exactly what affects the empowerment of small local communities and the strengthening of rural space. This is one of the measures that will have a positive effect primarily on young families. And I will just remind myself that, in addition to this, this government has launched construction and reconstruction of more than 500 kindergartens throughout Croatia with a particular emphasis on small rural areas in order to allow all families equal conditions and equal opportunities whether they live in rural or urban areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25897	Thank you. Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25898	Thank you very much. Here, I must really agree with you and say that much has been done for our rural environments in the last four-year period. It feels like it's gonna go on like that. There are kindergartens as well as one measure, which has greatly helped small municipalities. We talked about last week whether to abolish, not end municipalities, what with cities, smaller cities. We all need them. We need young families to move in and we need those kindergartens. In my city, here we are, in a European programme where we are kindergarten, extended the work of kindergartens to 21 hours precisely for reasons to make it easier for parents in view of their business obligations, parental obligations. There are a series of demographic measures implemented in this synergy with state authorities, all down through local ones. We, we now have additional fiscal capacity so that we can listen to needs and work to improve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25899	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25900	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the east of Croatia, you mentioned Slavonia. Since I come from there, I must agree with you that this measure gives a continuous increase in the number of subsidies and requests for this measure, so in 2017, for example, in the City of Osijek, we have 104 realized claims, and in the last year as many as 235 subsidized properties. This put Osijek in second place in the Republic of Croatia right behind the City of Zagreb and I believe that this measure is good and, as you said, it is constantly growing in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25901	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25902	Yes, respected counterpart Radic, according to my knowledge, Osijek-Baranja County is one of the leaders to this extent. So, most of all, they use it and it's another proof that young people want to stay in Slavonia and young families and that we have to give them everything in our power to stay, to have quality living conditions and to build and work in our environments that are primarily rural whether we want them to or not, but Slavonia is a largely rural environment. And once again I will point out in this debate today Croatia is different. We are full of differences and Croatia is everything from Ilock to Cavtat, or below, and we need to respect these differences. And I'm glad that in Slavonia these measures and similar functions work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25903	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25904	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we hear here all the time about how you especially on this side of the assembly are helping young people. We also heard it from the minister, and we heard it from the representatives. How is helping young people? The only and only way to help young people on the subject is to rent public housing. It's the only and only way and it's high-quality and affordable. Let us now imagine very concretely, to enter very concretely today in Zagreb. Yes, I'm going to talk about Zagreb now. The former minister, meanwhile, says this applies more to rural areas. I'll look back on that, too. But let's imagine in Zagreb and other big cities. In large cities, in order for big cities to work at all, you need to work a lot of people who young people do, because here they talk about young people who can live affordably who don't have to enter as this particular number, but not a large number of young people who are creditworthy who have been able to afford this variant with subsidized housing loans. Today, young people who are employed in the city if their job is such that they have to work in the city, see how a young family if they have a child or two children where in Zagreb they can rent an apartment, say, on the market like that. Only in the periphery. Except if he says he has a child, that's what's questionable. Everyone wants to rent in the short term. If this young couple if one is employed and the median salary in the 5th month is 5 thousand 579 kuna, an average of 6 thousand 655, but the median is of course important if only he is employed interests me that this man cannot first of all be creditworthy because at least 15 years or 20 years you predict these loans look at and calculate this thing comes down to 500 and some euros a month. Or if it's 20 years old then it's a little bit less than 400 and something that actually comes up with a figure that they have to pay or 4 thousand kunas per month or 3 thousand kuna. The construction operation will be completely buried if we really want to hire her with this law that we've passed on to rebuilding, and that's good. One of the solutions I see is which direction is possible we have a thousand and 800 buildings in Zagreb marked with that red label. So let's do everything to get to those places, in these buildings, we find the possibility that this 2% of how much our average is increased 7 times to get to the European average and that instead of 5.6,000 apartments as far as Zagreb currently has public apartments to rent, we can get up to 30,000 and that's possible, and that's also possible to get money from the EU, and that's also, these arguments that you bring here, that the builders and carpenters will, in particular, be completely busy rebuilding from the earthquakes, but this is how people get to cheap, I mean, affordable housing, that they don't have to go into debt slavery, especially in all major cities and thus solve their life issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25905	Thank you, we have one replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25906	Thank you. I used to talk about rural environments, specifically Slavonia, I think that here the problem is that we are not the City of Zagreb Assembly, what you are saying, is done by local communities, especially in smaller towns, in smaller towns, less environments worry about renting apartments, renting apartments, co-operation with various ministries to build buildings that will then be given, whether socially endangered, whether deficits are constantly returning to Zagreb, this is Zagreb, this is the Croatian Parliament, not the City of Zagreb Assembly, and I said, the whole of Croatia is, from Ilok to Prevlaka, to Cavtat, however you wish. There are different views and I think this law is for environments from which most of us come very good and very encouraging, which the terrain shows, which shows the interest of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25907	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25908	Well, well-respected representative Blažević. Obviously you didn't listen to me, I said on several occasions in all major cities. In larger cities, it means it is not exclusive, it does not refer to Zagreb. And the proposal I've been making is about how we're going to build an operation that we're going to do in this case anyway, because here we've passed the Earthquake Recovery Act, how do we use it at this point to build it, or to get a large enough fund of housing for public rent, that's what it's all about, and in the local environments, too, some people might not want to pay, maybe even there will be useful apartments, public apartments for rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25909	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25910	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. In the Replica Minister, I have pointed out that this is not a law that solves housing or solves problems of demographic restoration, revitalisation of certain areas, or prevention of emigration. This law deals with subsidisation of interest for the selected, often privileged user group, even though it is treated as a pure factor of happiness, rather than as a bargaining factor by the institutions. Lucky enough they had the fastest finger. I have pointed out that in the problem of housing, as well as in addressing this previous stated objective, the Republic of Croatia has the wrong approach and that this law is also one of the examples of a country that does everything wrong. The minister himself announced that some sort of housing strategy as well as a list of existing housing funds would only be developed, instead of first defining what our goal is, which is what the state wants to achieve by certain measures that constitute housing for young people and with which resources. Where a real estate fund which could serve the same purpose is available to the State, the real estate fund is provided by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. After that, a plan should be drawn up which should be made in a given state area and how to place priority on the availability of that real estate fund that already exists and for which no loans or interest subsidies are needed, and then define clear and transparent criteria and ensure the elemental principle of equal opportunities in measures that a normal, fair and just state should provide to all. But like I said, we're a country that does everything wrong and in the interest of just some, not everyone. Thus, only some, or those with a faster finger, or those who are closer to the authorities or those who are closer to the APN itself, are available to subsidised credits. I don't know who Predrag Stromar is calling for to pass this law since it is proposed by the government and voted by its obedient parliamentary majority. In response to my reply, the minister himself made it clear, it would be as they ruled and imagined it would be. And it's going to be just like it's been until now, just a little longer. No better, no more just, no more useful, except for some. Therefore, if any appeal should be made from this booth, then the appeal should require that such a law be not passed. Not before it defines what is to be achieved, not before the equality of the odds is guaranteed by equal standards to everyone, not the fastest. And not before effective control of the implementation of these measures is established. No one argues that 17 thousand users were satisfied with the subsidies they received, but in normal countries, this information would be a trigger to consider whether 17 thousand users who were granted a state subsidy, which was not available to all, were useful both to the state and to the budget users at whose cost this measure was financed. And what does that mean? This means that we should first analyse the areas where we want to motivate the retention of the population, so the measures should be adapted to these areas in view of the specific opportunities that exist there. Then analyze what the impact had already been on 17 thousand loans, but there is no analysis. And it is not the task of recuperating that such analyses of preparation or opposition have the necessary resources to do so. That was the government's mission. The resulting analysis should be the basis for the adoption of the law and part of the reasons submitted. Not only is it not there, but there is no good intentions in this law. If there were, then it would not be allowed to be sold after a while to buy a new or larger property because in this way from a small environment that wanted to revitalise someone to move into a larger and better real estate in one of the urban gravity centers, we actually achieved the exact opposite of how we represent these measures in the public. Some of them, but not all of them, will do great. The success and raising of personal wealth will take place with a shortcut, not by work, which is also the achieved motto of the good part of HDZ. And not only can you not convince the opposition of the good intentions of this law, you can't even convince the citizens because reality disproves you. In the debate, Anamarija Blažević praised the importance of this measure for Slavonia, and the reality testifies that Slavonia is empty. The Minister explained that when defining the criteria for the subsidisation of loans, the development index of the region was taken into account. So give me, please, tell me, what kind of an index of development or underdevelopment there is, for example. Zagreb district of Spain where the head of the municipality of Lovrec Anita Nemčić bought an apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25911	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The first is the respected representative, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25912	Comrade Dalia, yes, you were talking about equality and chance. Here we have also heard, and it is commendable, 50 young couples in Pakrac, the question is what is the synergy and whether there are 50 young people who will be able to provide, and not too much work, to secure the payments of these loans. But I'm curious about something else. You told us, we're missing the analysis, we're always missing basic documents, we're doing partial cosmetics first, and then we're going to work strategies. I'm curious, you said, the real estate fund, I know that, for example. The city of Zagreb has 4888 apartments, I don't know how many states there are, and it should be seen if there are any data on how many of these apartments and how many criteria are used, when we have witnessed, when the earthquake occurred, that the city of Zagreb did not have 20 empty apartments, but people had to be in the dormitory. I don't know how many states have fostered people who were killed, for example. from the earthquake, not to mention So that the state could rent its apartments to the same [[Intruder: Thank you.]] young people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25913	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25914	Yes, colleague Boric, I agree with you. I repeat what I always say. A state that has no clear goal can't get anywhere. It would be normal if we had a strategy and a plan before we started implementing these measures, here, we heard today, the measures have been implemented since 2011, and some plan that we're going to achieve or what we're going to do with them is only later. It would be normal for us to have a national development strategy, which will define what an area is, what some parts of the Republic of Croatia need, what their potentials are, what their problems are, so that the measures are adapted to these areas, but in line with some kind of system plan. And not that we have measures that are very short-term, not that we have measures that are on the scale of such that they cannot meet the needs of citizens, we always have a situation where, by the method of the fastest finger, some of the privileges are chosen, and most of them are excluded from what the state is offering in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25915	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25916	Dear Parliamentarians, if I understand you well, and I think I am, but normally, that was to be expected, you said that nothing is wrong in this country, so normal, neither this law nor this plan nor this project, and it was expected. I listened very carefully to you, and this is where you listed, first you need to run an analysis. After the analysis, we need to do a study. After the study, the criteria should be set and the plan should be defined, and then, ultimately, to make a strategy. And as long as you do it together, these young people will leave those environments, they won't be there anymore, simply your measures won't sit on fertile soil. I would ask you to be more effective if you are already in favour of reducing red tape, to be more effective in some way, then be credible, stick to those principles and to your attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25917	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25918	Dear Representative Shashin, you've made an absolutely wrong point. So, first we need to have a strategy, and then the implementation plan, so the measures are being implemented since 2011, precisely during the period in which the measures are being implemented, we have had the largest outflows of our population and the largest outflows of young, working and active. So, what's the problem with this country? Well, the problem is with those who run it, without a goal, without a plan, who continuously affect only individual social groups. In its own interest, not in the interest of the development of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia or its citizens, and that is what is seen in absolutely every strategy, every measure, every area, there is no topic we can talk about without always seeing the same problem. I'm not against housing, but I'm saying that we need a consistent comprehensive policy that will literally know from border to border what the goal is and what the state's money is spent on, and it has to be available to everyone on equal terms. It's clear and simple that it can't be clearer and simpler.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25919	The next replica of the respected representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25920	Dear colleagues, there is definitely a need to say that this law has certain advantages since many young families have acquired a roof over their heads. But you were talking about equality. However, where is equality in the development index? Where is the equality to deprive young people who, say, live in Pula, Koprivnica or Dubrovnik? Where is equality, and what message do we send to young people who want to stand alone? We're sending them a message that if you're great, we'll find ways to punish you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25921	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25922	Dear colleague Lerotić, I fully agree with you, so I have pointed out several examples. Here, an example of the index of development or underdevelopment of the Spanish district in the city of Zagreb is something this government does not have and can never give an answer to the question, and it is interesting that the head of the municipality of Lovrec, who obviously and illegally and untransparently received a subsidized loan from APN, clearly explained that this apartment in the town of Zagreb, since it lives in a family house with a pool, does not need for those purposes to which the minister was called to explain this law, but here, for business purposes when he comes to Zagreb, to have a place to stay. That's the equality of the chance I'm talking about. Not to say in which way the Deputy Director privileged his own credit incompetent son at the expense of a three-member family whose credit subsidy measure was not available Do you have an answer to such questions? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25923	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25924	Thank you very much. When we talk about this law, then we must say, here is the most mentioned city of Zagreb and the great environment, that Croatia, when we mention the 24 billion-euro social fund, which is mentioned only when we look at that we get from evicted Croats at 6% of GDP, is somewhere similar to the amount of social demographic breakdown in the Republic of Croatia. So much more per year will be paid than 10 years apart from this 10-year period of the European Social Fund. So at this point, I don't know, we also come from that area, more and more of the hearth of empty, and we don't motivate young people to stay in that area. I won't talk about bad or good things or current changes to this law, that's what you colleagues and colleagues said. But I think that we should take a closer look at these rural areas, so the indexation that is often mentioned, that people would simply survive in that area, we have in Switzerland an example where people from cities, young families go to mountain areas, but they're all allowed there. If they are engaged in goats, sheepmaking, insignificantly, they are all made possible, from breeding to buying-out, then one family is invested, one family, one family. We have a huge problem, we have potential, natural for a much larger number of people on this, these 2/3 of Croatia, when I speak, I'm not just talking about Zagreb, we're only talking about Zagreb. We have to invest in kindergartens and jobs. If we don't have a job, the Dalmatian Zagorje, the Chetinj area, the Drenjska or Slavonia or Lici or the Gorski Kotar, no subsidy will keep any young man there. Not a single subsidy. I know that everyone now is harder to live in Zagreb or third countries, but we who live primarily are looking down at the problem. So the state has to say, so legal kindergartens in that area will subsidize in a set, half a local self-government,.../incomprehensible/... half a state. It would be, for you, I speak for these areas, it is to you, because if there is no kindergarten job, if it is a far home of health, health care, that man cannot survive, a young family and he will come to live in Zagreb. He will come to live in the third, even good if he comes to Zagreb, so we have a fortune because in our country he creates value, as I said, 6% of GDP and from the signs of our people abroad. And we need to look much wider at this problem. I'm not talking about this law positive now or negative effects or criticizing it. All said liva, right side, these are for, these are against, however, realistically, let's look at from the bird's perspective that area so you'll see that we have to work urgently to create conditions for the survival of people in that area. First place of work, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, to stay in the areas of this rural or underdeveloped or these depressed areas where there are no residents, there is no advantage for 5 years that they do not pay taxes to the State. No additions whatsoever but subsidizing them to stay here. So they can have the workforce and make it worth their while. It won't come down if the conditions are the same as in Zagreb, believe it won't. So it's a job. Secondly, we have an obligation to provide these people with health services, not the same medical services in Zagreb, not even in Split, or even in all of Dalmatia as in Zagreb. They don't have the same conditions. They don't. Down there, people are terrified and struggling to get to Zagreb hospitals somehow, not insulting the doctors down there, they just don't have enough capacity. And if we look at even development, only from this perspective can we help us develop people evenly, but without an area, without people can be part of Croatia that we say, here we have Croatia. We have Croatia, but Croatia without residents is not a state. If we have an empty country, a whole area that can feed a large number of people, which can be a much larger number of people, so this is one wide problem, and exclusively boasting about cosmetic changes or criticizing those cosmetic changes, I don't think the ministry has anything to do with it, either. a very small shift. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25925	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25926	Here's my esteemed colleague Bull. Well, I'm glad that in this way you've found out in some way and praised the work of this government because if we're looking at the exploitation of rural development measures, measure 741 is exactly back 4 years, one thousand, if not more kindergartens were built in these rural areas, by cities and municipalities, so I'm glad we found ourselves on the same track, and I think it's a good way to build children's kindergartens, it encourages staying, as you said yourself, young families, and here, I'm glad that you've also kind of praised the government of the Republic, which, after 2016, intensified the withdrawal of funds from the rural development fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25927	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25928	I don't mind being commended. There's nothing to brag about here, you know when I'm going to compliment? It's not just an object, I'm talking about creating conditions for people to survive. Demographic downturn is huge, here's just to look at the situation now, here in my Chetish neighborhood from last year on elementary school kids, in first grade is less than two classes. It was 442 last year, and this year it was recorded 400. That's a huge number of people. So we're not talking here, now that I'm not attacking, I commended the government yesterday and I'm glad Branko Bacic changed his mind, that he would accept this IGP proposal because it's significant, it would be better if before and before joining the EU, I would support it. But a few days ago or in the last term, when I made the proposal, I was attacked here by all kinds of names. But the important thing is that our Adriatic which can give us much better and economic progress, of course the Republic of Croatia and our resources, so it's not a problem for me to praise, but only when our numbers are increasing, not just in buildings, but when Making life possible in... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25929	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25930	Dear colleague Bulj, I agree with you that the best pro-demographic policy is job creation, but the question is, how are we going to open jobs when our taxes are so high? So in order to pay the subsidies of 260 million kuna, taxes must be those 260 million kuna. But in these 260 million kunas, it is not included in the intermediary, meaning another state agency dealing with it, where it means besides 260 million kuna, which are taken from taxes, which are given for subsidies still have to be paid, means the salaries of officials, and of course there are the price of heating and the rest that goes with office space, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25931	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25932	So we only have how much we have... /incomprehensible/... taxes, parafiscal burdens, and every government has little makeup, there are no significant shifts. I'll just tell you a few things, here we have a flood problem in Kokorići, i.e. It's a hot field. For years, there's been documentation since the last century. From before II. svt. war and there are projects. 300 meters and that water would be, the hydro canal would be, and that water would go away. I go down with my boots every year, 1,000 times I've talked and... here in vineyards, orchards, and how are people going to survive when they're all flooded every year, what are they going to do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is good for the authorities, immediately running ministers, Croatian waters that are guilty, and they help the region. So get through that channel so people can grow that farm, not be wise. And they're fine with it when it happens, and now I can paint it like it's gonna solve the problem. So get rid of him. I'm 15 days ago... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25933	The next replica is respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25934	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, you mentioned investing in rural areas, so here we are, and you are coming from Split-Dalmatia County which is actually the first county that in Croatia is your home, co-financed construction and adaptation of houses, so it helps young families from rural areas to build their own home and stay in their homes. Thus, 130 young families took advantage of the Split-Dalmatia County's grants, and also because of great interest, the rebalancing of yesterday ensured that another 30 families would receive the grants. Unfortunately, you haven't, you've been held back for this particular budget rebalance, so I'm very sorry, since you're saying one thing now, you're supporting exactly the investment in adaptation and home creation in rural areas, and you didn't vote yesterday for to provide families in Split-Dalmatia County [[Thank you. Thank you.]] The rest of the 30 yes, yes [[Intruder: Dear Representative Bulj.]] to make use of their resources. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25935	Let's stick to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25936	Not that I was abstentioned, I am against the rebalancing and the county budget, since the establishment of the county of 100,000 people we have from Krka to Neretva. 100,000 people. In the Cetina region, never a major decline, in Vrgoračka krajina, except for the good PR for the disposal is responsible county and irrigation and Croatian water. Look what's happening to you. See are the irrigated Sinjsko polje or alleged that people can live and work. These kind of measures that you want to push through to me, which I suggested, let's say, I suggested county free textbooks and they said it was pulsism. When I dragged that into Sinj, the county prescribed it. The greatest vermin in terms of state, decentralised resources, health care, schooling, you know where it is? County. County's the biggest, they're the bloodthirsty, the vermin of even development. The mayors became... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you serve him well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25937	The next replica of the respected representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25938	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, you mentioned other parts of the Republic of Zagreb besides the city of Zagreb, so here I would mention Slavonia and try to explain as easily as possible what it means for a young family, for example, in Osijek where the amount of subsidy is 33% based on the development index. So when you take the average price of the monthly annuity of 3000 kuna per month, you come to the fact that the state gives these young families more than 1000 kuna per month during the period of the subsidy. I consider these to be concrete incentives for young families who resolve their housing issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25939	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25940	Nothing in the country gives to young families. It gives far less what Slavonia deserves and how much she could produce that smart politics were conducted or who gives the Slavs what. That's them, that's theirs. That's the first one. Second, we have an example of my country's cetinal neighborhood. I'll tell you. Here, waste management, so much damage, 30 million kunas for Lečevica Waste Management Center, even worse acacia, blackberries, you have to read mushrooms, mushrooms, 30 million kunas, it hasn't moved. And now instead of in the economic zone in my Sinj, in my Son to invest in entrepreneurs, they want to overload the station. Why? That they can overload waste from other parts instead of developmental economic projects and people who will be hired there. And how can we? The measurements. We can take measures to remove taxes from entrepreneurs and in these areas, either in Slavonia or in Dalmatia, people can come, open jobs, entrepreneurs. So there's no movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25941	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Yankees, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25942	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here is the law of amending and supplementing the House Loan Subsidisation Act. So we're kind of talking about housing. We have heard that 17,000 contracts have been signed so far, of which 7,000 new contracts, that in these apartments, houses, 5000 newborn children were born, that requests have been approved twice a year because it is normal and operationally impossible to process those requests and that these demands as we have heard, someone still has to work and that at the time of each government, there was an agency that handled these demands, and that it is normal for some people to process them, so I don't see the sense in the replica that someone is getting paid because normally that every citizen has to work and that it's perfectly normal for any government, and that it's this kind of populist replica. On the other hand, this law encourages rural development, rural development. When I say this and as mayor, however, this law encourages and changes in detailed urban plans according to local self-government because often these plans are old, outdated and precisely greater demand for housing in some way and encourages then and local self-government in rural areas to change urban plans, to predict the construction of new buildings, that existing urban plans where they are and planned buildings that are often known from their own experience, the ground floor plus two floors change to the ground floor plus four floors that are directly or indirectly related to the cost of building, so that for me there is no incredible finding that this law is suitable for the builders, the fact that, without these links between the builders, between the changing urban plans and without these apartments, there is no longer an option for me to be able to make sure that there is more money in the right and the right of the market where we can be able to get more money from the right and the right of the right of the right where we need to go. What I would like to stress in any case is that Croats are property-friendly, so Croats are not inclined to enter the rentals, they may be some other citizens of some, or residents of some other countries, but we love property and in fact, it is visible that precisely in the proportion of those 40% of the use goes to houses, so Croats like not only apartments to have property but to have houses, and dadasha, it is good because it is precisely housing in houses that is most often possible in those undeveloped areas to say, in rural areas and this law, however, works to keep people living in these rural areas and to buy houses because houses are mostly and to build in more rural areas. Normally, those who want to rent, however, may also have to think about the future, but whether it should be state-owned apartments, it is already questionable because we had these examples a long time ago and did not quite prove to be the most ideal ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25943	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25944	Thank you, Your Honor. You spoke from the perspective of the north, as the head of a city in the north and you talked about the benefits, normally not only for young families but also for our businessmen and entrepreneurs and the construction sector and all of this which would encourage why these laws are just as important and in this crisis were not economic activity but rather progressing further, you mentioned houses, I already mentioned the local self-government initiative in my presentation. This is the mechanism, this is the measure, this is the law, the roof that the Ministry of Construction gives us, but normally, every local environment, every municipality, every city, especially in the north or south, will adapt to itself and can be involved with parallel measures. So I believe that ultimately we will all be unanimous about this law whether it comes from a big city, a small municipality, north or south. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25945	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25946	That's right, I forgot to mention it, but I have to point out and agree with my colleague. This is the law of good intentions, we've heard that the law of bad intentions, this is the law of good intentions, and in any case you're right that it connects the framework that gives this law. It connects the meaning of the legislative body, the government, the ministry and local self-government and encourages ultimately any local self-government that it can, if it wants, if it has the funds additionally subsidized. And on the other hand, in any case, it also encourages the development of these local environments because something is being built in these environments, something is being done, someone is eventually getting paid, and at the end of the day there were mentions of a price difference, of an increase in housing isolation, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25947	Thank you. The Honorable representative Jelkovac also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25948	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you have well realized that we still have a priority on ownership. We are not like some country where the culture of life is such that several times during life the living space is changed and that they do not prefer to be owned. However, we have people who are more often committed to living space, and therefore I think that the interest in this measure is very high. If we did a survey among young people in particular, we would see that this is much more interesting than renting. And then it's really strange that some here today point out that this should, that this is not a good measure and that it should be much more invested in the measure of renting housing. We also have great potential in the private sector as far as renting is concerned, and I think the local units as far as our fellow citizens with social status are concerned, they're very good at solving this housing issue in this way... list of priorities. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25949	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25950	Here's a thank you, colleague. Well, it's clearly tradition talking about it. It is also conditioned by some situations in the former state when people could not invest in other things, so you traditionally invested in assets, because money was not worth it and money fell from day to day. Inflation destroyed it. On the other hand, we have an example of Germany. There again are private owners of buildings where people live and rent from these privates and apartments. We had an example of state dwellings in the former state, and those people who lived in those state dwellings couldn't wait to buy these apartments back in the '90s and be the owners of those apartments. So I think there's a very clear view and thinking of our people right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25951	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25952	Thank you very much. In your individual debate, you spoke first of all from the position of the local head of a local community, or mayor of a small town in northern Croatia, and from that position you spoke of in this Act as a law aimed primarily at young and young families. You were talking about a law that is a strong demographic measure and a measure that strengthens the local community exactly and encourages young families to stay in their local environments especially small environments as your city is, so is my municipality. I'm glad you emphasized exactly the value system, the small local value system where you put investment in your own real estate instead of rent in the first place. And through this Law it is precisely for young families to acquire the first real estate whether it is an apartment, a family home, or another facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25953	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25954	That's right. Since ownership in some way also allows for the further development of these families, and if you own a property then you can end up with a loan, you can continue to develop, you can continue to invest, you can buy. So I think this measure is a good measure. It's also visible at the birth of 5,000 newborn children. It means when our fellow citizens get home, they normally make it easier to decide on newborns. Definitely a great help to us in the local environment, because today young people want to live in buildings and encourage building and in small local areas, the guarantee is that these young people remain living in these local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25955	Thank you very much. Now we're going on behalf of the clubs final. The first Green-left bloc advocates' club, and a respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25956	Thank you. Thank you to all the colleagues in the Assembly Professional Service who help us every day not to get infected. I'm sure five minutes won't be enough on behalf of the club to respond to all the spins I've heard in this debate that are really amazing. So the first spin we... Help these young people. [[You don't understand.]] So I've been dealing with young people since I was 18. I was the first president, vice president, then president of a roof youth organisation called the "Young Croatian Youth Network", and then I was involved in housing policy even 15 years ago. So we're not gonna help, I don't know. On the other hand, former Minister Bacic says who does not want the state to finance 15 thousand euros for credit and that is why 17 thousand families reported. Well, only what we warn is that in 2019, and that's what the CNB Report said in the same way, had 10% rise in real estate prices in Croatia compared to 4.5% of the average growth in real estate in the European Union 10%. It means more than double the rate. Now, if we and we all agreed here to influence this measure on the rise in real estate prices. ... Bacic said it was just a question to what extent. [[You don't understand.]] However, if you give someone 15 thousand euros and 100 thousand euros is a maximum loan and then you increase the cost of the property by 10,000 euros per year and you give them 15 000 euros, then it's not some bill, of course it's worth it, but the question is whether we did it optimally. And the question for which category of young people we did it for. Would these young people buy an apartment anyway compared to those young people who can't even rent an apartment because the wild market prices rent, wild. So it's not regulated. The inspections don't... There's no contract, there's no control of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The tax system you have agreed that if someone has an apartment, if they choose to rent it to tourists, they will pay 10 less taxes than if they rent it to the city's residents. So you've dimmed it 10 times. That's what this is about. Furthermore, the construction sector is helping with this measure. And what's there to help him with? So we will spend 40 billion kuna of public money on the reconstruction of Zagreb and its surroundings. We all want construction companies to do that job, everyone. And the question of how fast it will be done by our construction operation. So it's just going to take everyone involved at the renovation. I don't even know how we're going to spend money from the Solidarity Fund in this short time without our construction firms doing it. And now you're saying they need to be encouraged to make new apartments and that's why I'm passing this law. Keep going. The local self-government is to blame for the unrealization of POS. That's what the APN report says. They say, in particular Zagreb and Split, a colleague of Bačić. So am I in power in Split? Or you from HDZ? Am I in power in Zagreb or are you in HDZ along with Bandic? So you realized 10% of the 90 million kuna via APN for the POS program, 10%. 90% of the money wasn't spent. Why? Keep going. Correct this measure, so we're not against, so fix the measure at least continuously throughout the year can be reported so that you don't raise the price at that time that month once a year or twice a year, regardless of when citizens have to buy the property, at least that's how you fix it. Secondly, instead, it means more investment, we promised people loans, we can't subsidize and we can't stop it, we've committed ourselves, but you can invest more money in other programmes for young people who need it because they can't even rent an apartment. I mean, I'm offended by common sense when you say that our people favor property more than rent an apartment. It’s like saying, “Let them eat cakes because they don’t want bread. ” Well, of course we would, but a lot of young people are not at all creditworthy, you can't move out of a parent home because they can't rent an apartment because they value rent in big cities like Split, such as Zagreb, grow 10% annually. That's the problem. So, what is meant for them by measure? What are they supposed to do? Keep going. You've had four years to make it, this is the government of continuity, you make a living policy and you come here and you say it's a serious job and you can't do it in a year, you can't do it in a few months, it takes a year. For four years nothing has been done on this, I'm not saying that the previous governments have done it, but you can't say you haven't had time. So now I'm telling you a worse problem of housing for young people in this country is burning. And I'm not going to stop, and I'm going to keep returning this topic until housing policies are made, and measures are being taken that will ensure for the most needed young people measures to reach some kind of living space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25957	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDZ, eventually the respected representative Ante Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25958	Thank you. Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Let's do a few things. Comrade Tomaševic, I must immediately refer to you, so passionately you spoke against this law and against this measure, I remember you at the beginning, long ago when they were protesting at the Flowering around the garage, I think you were so much more passionate about this measure than when you were performing at the Flowering, so I don't think it's clear to me that so much fire and so much strength you entered in your performance to be against the measures of subsidising young loans. I understand that you have some things that you want to add to them, that you're going to put a couple of amendments regarding children related to the calendar when they're going to have, all of which I understand, and that should normally the Ministry discuss, if not in these changes, i.e. Not in this final proposal, tomorrow in other amendments for maybe 2022 or 2023, but so much heat to bring in today, today, when any government in Europe and the world would probably give up on such measures because people would say, in the crown of crisis, we have 100,000 problems, we cannot now give 50,000 million kunas in subsidising some loans were not some young family solving their housing issue, no, this government, with all the problems, in all 10,000 billion kuna to preserve jobs with tax redundancies, with the elimination of income tax for young people up to 25 and up to 25, 50%, says no problem, these 50 million kuna in rebalancing was the first item. It was to cover the health debt and the second item was, leaving 50 million kuna for this measure. And you come here to the pay phone and you go as passionately as you can against this measure as if there was some protest on Florist or I don't know, the garage is working somewhere down there even though here I don't know, I'm watching, this garage even looks bad after your protest. To sum up, I've actually followed up on the debate and I've watched about every club and every single person who's been out, I think we can agree on some things in the globally, we have to look at this a little bit as a whole, we have to look at this as a demographic measure, we have to see this as part of the government's policy to help young people and young families. We must commend that the law did not exempt and that it also thought about people with disabilities, that it was especially for children who were in these young families, that they were looking at children who would be born in these new young families, we have to deal with the figures that the average subsidy would be 1000 kuna on the war of credit, that the average state on those 100,000 euros would give 15 thousand euros, that this would affect 20 thousand families, we are talking here as 20 thousand individuals. Let's multiply it by their families, multiply the number of children who will be born under this measure, and with all this, along with this law, with this measure that is excellent, we must not stand by chance, so I have most of my own and individual debates, but also debates on behalf of the club, talked about local self-governments. In addition to this measure, I am in favour and I am the first to have the Minister and Ministry and that the State Office for Demography and Youth and our State Secretary there is very tightly gripping and municipalities and cities and counties to this, because this is not, this may not be so relevant in all municipalities and cities, but that they are designing measures and adapting them for their own ends. That is why we have in some municipalities and in my Split-Dalmatia County a measure There is your home, which may be more suitable for rural areas or for areas of Zagor which are part of Split-Dalmatia County. Real estate prices are up 10%. Let's look at areas where growth is. For the past year, we've been talking about how you can buy a house for 20,000 euros in Slavonia, and now we're having problems raising the price of squares. Where did the price of squares rise? I agree that in the last 15 to 20 years we have experienced an abnormal increase, specifically in Split. Something worth 1,000 euros in 2000, a bug in year 2, 3, today is worth 2000, 2500 euros, which is impossible to buy, I agree. But this measure is the last thing that has affected the rise of a meter square, for example. in the town of Split. There is tourism and a lot of other factors, this measure was not involved. The interest of the citizens is great, I repeat and appeal, let's bring this unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25959	Thank you. Honorable representative Tomaševic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has been injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25960	He's been injured. In 238, my colleague demeaned me as an agent, and at the same time he used something I didn't say. So what I'm not against, I'm not against this measure, what's frustrating is how much money goes for this measure compared to what I think is most needed, and that's POS's public lease program. Because if 200 million kuna goes for those who can afford to buy an apartment, and there goes 10 million kuna for POS's rent-a-carrying program, then there's a problem. Because they're not my priorities. [[/Intruder: Col. Tomašević. Like this.]] So it's social. We need to be in danger before we can help. [[Employer: A colleague of Tomašević, enough!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25961	First, that's you, read the Rules of Procedure. It was a typical replica of which you had no right, so I'm under your command. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word. It's a theoretical thing now, I understand that, but let me get this straight. The Honorable representative Jelkovac, too, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25962	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Tomašević, was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it behaves against the rules in force here in Parliament because what it does is replication, not violation of the Rules of Procedure and colleagues of Tomasevic, the problem is if you can't hear the opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25963	Now, that's why I gave him the warning. I beg you, let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure again. I'm telling you... No, he's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague is absolutely right, which is why I gave you a warning. You abused the Rules of Procedure. So, Reverend Bacic, please give up, is that it? You can, you can risk... [[/Intruder: Can I risk it?]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25964	........................................................................................... 238, I don't want anyone to get angry, but all the congregations of the city of Zagreb when we count how much this government has done and responded after the earthquake to rebuild Zagreb, plus this, we should say thank you, not attack. These measures are neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25965	Okay, you're getting a warning because it was also a replica. ... Dear Representative Boric, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25966	And here I would like to be a colleague, so when you approved her, this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure had nothing to do with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25967	I agree, that's why I gave the warning... Please, don't go on with those jerks. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's completely pointless. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Bridge of Independent Lists will finally speak to the respected representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25968	My people, you hear everything. What's left, if there is, is that the rest is because if a social receiver is allowed, because the receiver has changed the receiver so that people can't even watch TV, they call me that I can't find it, they can't even buy it because they're afraid, they're threatened, so I'm sorry that you didn't accept my amendment to at least ensure these people are threatened, mainly in rural areas of the Dalmatian Mountain, like, Slavonia to buy a host of DVB-T2 so that they can watch the Parliament so they can manage how they can, so it's more than embarrassing that we didn't vote and allow people in this corona crisis. But I'd only do it one more time here. I will neither criticize this nor praise it. I'm just gonna say what's real. There are mentioned counties that are the brakes of development of the Republic of Dalmatia, even development, I am saying here that from Krka to Neretva is in Dalmatia there are 100,000 fewer people in Dalmatia, when I speak here in Dalmatia Zagora, that I am talking about the Drenska area, where there is also Zagora, the Cetina area, I am talking about the Imothic area, the vervain end of 100,000 people less, which is why, because of the bad policies and relations towards these parts. In order for a young man who has, he wants to create a family, he has to create living conditions for him. First of all, there's the workplace. But in order to have a workplace in this area, we need to make it possible, when we talk about rural areas, mountainous and undeveloped, we need to make it possible to cut taxes to a minimum or moratorium to taxes and to all taxes i.e. and on parafiscal charges for five years. I can do two, but I'm giving five, because... So that He may invest, and you shall see whether the people will remain. [[You don't understand.]] We need to enable not only buildings, kindergartens. We have to make it possible for this parent to have a job so he can pay for kindergarten. So we have 40% of local self-government units that do not have the opportunity to provide for a child's kindergarten, and from the Europe Council in 2000 in Barcelona, it said, so they gave a strategic goal that in 2020, this year all children, 90% of children have already reached that standard from 3rd to 6th year have the right to secure kindergarten. Not babysitting, but education because these children who have a childcare kindergarten in that period have a higher education in that period. But that's not on the ground. I speak field where we have to invest to keep people. We have to make fairies, castles, houses. If there is no job, if there is no childcare school, if there is no medical service he cannot live here my people, if there is no school, if there is no bus, transportation to school secured. Which they secured down in Sinj traffic for Makarska to burn down every day a bus older than I don't know, than a blue river. So we have to look at this situation that way. Well, here's the mayor of Drnisha and my neighbor in the Cetina region. We need to look at these indices, indexations in these areas, and local self-government can do something about it. Don't switch everything to local self-government. You can't blame yourself in your report, Secretary of State, your laws that you've passed, being the fault of local self-government. A colleague, Tomaševic, said 90% of the funds you predicted you didn't spend, and that's a good law, and you've been bragging here all morning. So can you find measures? I'm not talking about Zagreb. I know that Zagreb is the capital and that the most talk is about Zagreb's problems. But Zagreb has 5 clinical hospitals, and Split has 1 clinical hospital. Do you know how many people? The same million people, when we take half a million people living in the area, plus tourists, plus Herzegovina, our people from Herzegovina our neighbours and all of Dalmatia literally. They're all other hospitals. No one mentions those ends. We must have special measures. Analyze empty areas. We've got a lot, we've got too many empty housing that's collapsing. Not just the tenants. School, home to the health of former people who are, it's all collapsing, and they're beautiful areas of life. Even near Split, near Sibenik, near other tourist centers. So we have to focus on the whole strategy, not 90% of the means of the projected measure you did not spend and now announces counterpart Bačić as if this one in Split... solutions. [[You don't understand.]] Ma will not give a single solution, but will continue to be a demographic decline, and even in Split unfortunately because of the policies you spend in Split and similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25969	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice. The honourable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25970	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. Well, here I would like to thank, on this occasion, the representative of HDZ Anti Bačić who accidentally confirmed my thesis when he said that in all other normal states the government would give up implementing these measures if nothing else because of COVID, and we also have an additional severe circumstance, and these are the consequences of a devastating earthquake in the City of Zagreb. Yes, normal states would really give up on such a measure because these 50 million kunas are distributed to some, and not just to everyone, as HDZ does in all its policies. Let me put it this way. Equality understood as equal opportunities is a constitutional category and the way in which interest subsidy measures are implemented violate this principle. Irritable is the tenacity with which the ruling model defends itself. I would support an overall comprehensive housing policy that does not aim at some short-term goal, but is in line with the National Development Strategy and the development plans for each end. I would also support an overall housing policy that gives equal opportunities to the same clear and transparent criteria to all. When the ruling calls for the interest of young people to apply these measures to a large extent, it is a fact. But it is this fact that every year the interest of citizens is much higher than the capacity of APN, that the expressed interest of citizens follows, that the aim of these measures is something other than what the ruling is calling for. The amendments to the law did not remove those problems that the public learned from certain media-exposed affairs such as the setting up of such subsidies to the APN deputy, which was a disgrace to the extent that he did not have or his son who was a credit student and did not interfere with the fact that the measure was implemented at the expense of a three-member family who had no conditions for residential care. In the opening statement, the minister cited the numbers of applications submitted and approved at a certain age. And maybe that would be enough for this to be a report on the work of the APN itself. But that's not the minister's job. The task of one minister would be to explain the impact so far spent 250 million kuna on demographics, in which areas, where it is necessary to invest and spend more, and what ends besides Spain have been revitalising the subsidies and how the opportunities for implementing measures in the future will be ensured because we have not had so far. How will control the use of measures be ensured? I hope that not as it was in these media-exposed examples because we have seen that the resolution ministries in the surveillance exercise have found that there are no irregularities. So more or less end investigations into all corruption affairs. None of the above. So HDZ, on the one hand, and the equality of chances and a fair state, which, in implementing some of the measures, has a general and public objective, simply can't get together in the same sentence, let alone one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25971	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We will now go to the next point, which is: - The final draft law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1999 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (‘EPPO’), an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 85 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, adopted a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25989	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. A draft draft law on the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor with the final proposal for a law. Regulation of the Council of Europe, 1939 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in relation to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, was adopted in 2017. The Regulation therefore provides for the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor as an independent EU body in charge of investigations, prosecution and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences against the financial interests of the EU on the basis of Directive 1371/2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2017 on the prevention of fraud committed against the financial interests of the Union by means of criminal and criminal offences which are irrevocably linked to them, i.e. The DIF Directive. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is being set up at a central and decentralised level. The central level consists of the Central Office in Luxembourg, which is comprised of the main European prosecutor and her deputies, by one European prosecutor from each of the 22 Member States participating in the mechanism to strengthen cooperation. The decentralised level also consists of delegated European prosecutors who are located and operating in their Member States and have the same powers as national prosecutors in respect of investigations, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences against the financial interests of the EU. Despite the direct application of the Council of Europe Regulation and its competence to the national legal order, an analysis of the relationship between the provisions of the Council Regulation and the applicable national legislation, pointed out the need for certain issues to be precisely regulated by national implementing rules. This law addresses the following important issues. The existence of a new category of authorised prosecutors is foreseen, it is a matter of delegated European prosecutors who will be active members of the State Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia integrated into the structure of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, thus known as USKOK through the department of delegated European prosecutors. It is proposed to establish the actual and local jurisdiction of only one court of the County Court in Zagreb to judge in the first degree in all cases in which the indictment will be represented by delegated European prosecutors. The only exception to this is the proceedings against minors who will be treated by delegated European prosecutors and the jurisdiction and composition of the court will be subject to the Law on Juvenile Courts. It is proposed to regulate the position and powers of delegated European prosecutors in the context of criminal proceedings, it is proposed to do so by prescribing that, in criminal proceedings for criminal offences within the jurisdiction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the delegated European Prosecutors shall be deemed to belong to all the powers and duties of the attorney-general under the law. It is proposed and subject to the fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will not bear the expenditure on compulsory insurance of delegated European prosecutors, the regulation of their compulsory insurance in such a way that the delegated European Prosecutor's Office is compulsoryly provided on its own request in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act and the Ministry of Justice in charge of the tasks of the judiciary in charge of the amount of insurance provided by the Minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, in accordance with the orders on the amounts of the basics for the calculation of the compulsory insurance contributions made for the current year by the Minister in charge of finance. In doing so, the amount of the basics shall not exceed the level of the basis which the delegated European Prosecutor had as a judicial official before the appointment of the delegated European Prosecutor. The adoption of the law implementing the Council Regulation of 12 June 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in relation to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor (‘EPPO’) is proposed by means of an urgent procedure based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 206(1) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, given that it is a regulation implementing compliance with EU documents. And the need for urgent action is reflected in the fact that at EU level it is to undertake a full range of activities for the post-operative establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor. The adoption of the law implementing the Council Regulation of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, will be ensured in the conditions for the implementation of Council Regulation 1939 of 2017 in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and legal preconditions will be created for the start of the work of delegated European prosecutors in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25990	Thank you. Stay here, we have more replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative of Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25991	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this law mentions European prosecutors, delegated European prosecutors, I am interested in who is choosing them and whether European delegated prosecutors will have stronger tools than our national prosecutors in the process and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25992	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25993	Honorable MPs, therefore, cannot have stronger tools than those we have in national legislation. It's just what we have. So they'll have the same tools our state's attorneys have in dealing with the perpetrators of crimes. And as for the appointment, so in Croatia, the State's Attorney's Office is channeling the highest-quality personnel who, of course, meet the conditions laid down by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, his college. The Minister delivers those which the State's Attorney's Office has chosen as the highest quality. He's delivering to Luxemburg. The main state's attorney is proposing to a European college, to their college, and they are finally choosing these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25994	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25995	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we know that this regulation has been carried out by most countries or carried out by them at this time as we do. But there are some states that have been silenced by this regulation, four or five of them if I'm not mistaken. So now do you know internally whether it's related to some judicial sovereignty that some states don't want in any way to hand over with this or that's any difficulty for these countries that they haven't even entered into this mechanism... ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25996	Dear Secretary of State Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25997	The Honorable MP, therefore, is here about a project which has been joined by 22 countries since 26. So they didn't join this enhanced cooperation project in Hungary, Poland, I think Denmark and Ireland. So why would I say that should primarily ask them. However, the reasons given are somewhat sovereign and somewhat skeptical that this could be more functional than what national legislation does. Croatia has defined itself, so it is cross-border crime, and under national legislation, we simply do not catch timely criminals who, of course, cross-border, their co-operation is always a step ahead of the states. We agreed to be one framework legal within the European Union. In a criminal sense, this is almost rounding up that framework and I think it will be much more functional than without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25998	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u25999	The European Public Prosecutor, we will have one in Croatia decentralisationd to solve what the most people do not believe, and the State's Attorney's Office has done its job. We believe there won't be too much influence on the masseuse within the appointment and appointment of that prosecutor. And I would personally say that the honourable state secretary's greatest mistrust of the Croatian people is precisely in the judicial bodies of the State's Attorney's office do not do their job, and this is evident in all the public insights of Janaf so far. Here Janaf is an example of the functioning of the Croatian state. There's a representative of the judiciary, there's three ministers all there's a money counter, there's an arches bank. And in the end, you know what's gonna look like to me? He'll be eaten by a donkey wolf. So this one is imposed, this is similar to reminding me of that Carla Del Ponte when we had over the body when we were just serving them as servants, and it was never stolen in the Republic of Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26000	Dear Secretary of State Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26001	Your Honor, your replica hasn't touched this subject very strongly, but I'll say it anyway. So I have no dilemma that we must, so we have become part of the European Union. We are therefore building a legal system of the European Union. In this case, we are strengthening the criminal justice framework for the pursuit of crime at European Union level. This, of course, refers exclusively to the persecution of the perpetrator of criminal offences against the European Union's financial interests, which are, in fact, the financial interests of all taxpayers of the European Union, including ours. I don't think there is any valid but primarily criminal reason not to go into this co-operation to make this crime as strong as possible, with stronger tools and at this centralised level but with our delegated state lawyers sitting in Croatia and in front of Croatian courts to prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26002	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26003	Before joining the European Union, our country has made a nominal move to fight corruption. A large number of high profile cases have been initiated, but unfortunately without any epilogues. When these European supervisory mechanisms disappeared, the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia also melted. If Croatia were a sovereign state in which the legal state of the institution functions, I could agree with my colleague Bul. We do not need any control mechanisms from the European Union, but we all know that the truth is different. And I will personally support this and hope that these mechanisms will contribute to a more determined fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, I hope that this will not only remain a letter on paper, but will have an impact on the depletion of this criminal swamp in which Croatia is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26004	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26005	You won't answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26006	Excuse me. The Honorable Secretary of State has some kind of response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26007	Therefore, I agree with you that corruption is one social evil against which we must fight all of us at every level. Of course criminal tools are the most effective. So the dilemma, yes or no cross-border cooperation, I think it's completely declassified. We are also a state until we are a member of the European Union, so with a number of instruments, we have co-operation in criminal matters and with third countries. Of course, at the level of the police, at the level of persecution, at the level of courts with the European Union, we are making one criminal, but that is, the legal framework has no doubt that this cooperation is necessary and no one can be so pessimistic as to think that it will be worse than it has been so far. So crime, cross-border crime will be prosecuted, and it will certainly be more effective, as little as possible, so we see these borders between countries. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26008	Dear Representative Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, please, if you can give us the information, and you have certainly done an assessment to assess the capacities you need, given that this is about criminal acts that damage the EU budget, which are, of course, also criminal acts of subsidisation, I would ask you to tell us, for 2019 and the previous year, so the financial perspective of 2014-2020, how much funding so far has been identified as the means for which increased supervision or which may have been the subject of criminal acts of subsidisation, or how specific are the funds, and how specific cases of subsid fraud have been and if you have information on how many of them have been solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26010	Dear Secretary of State Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26011	In the drafting of this legal document, distinguished MPs, we have not dealt with such tools, and I cannot answer you at this time to satisfy your expectations precisely, if you show as a representative of interest, it will be convenient, please contact us and the Ministry of Justice and Administration will certainly give you this information, of course, in cooperation with the DORH and the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26012	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and, thank you very much, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative Željko Sačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26013	Honored chairman, secretary, co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the Croatian public. So, we have before us one text of laws that further wants to strengthen the fight against serious crime, above all, organised crime, financial fraud, subsidy fraud, and from the very level of protection of the EU's interest because the EU has found fundamentally that since 2002, they have established Eurojust, etc., before that Europol and all this together, all these legal mechanisms to protect their financial interests because, of course, as crime does not know the borders, they have taken measures to ensure that the national institutions to fight crime are better integrated, sharing data to make them more effective. Unfortunately, criminals are always a step forward, two ahead of the momentum itself and have found many models that huge funds, billions of euros, one part of these funds are stolen, darkened, embezzlemented, and in Croatia it seems, and in Croatia, counterpart Bencic has well noticed, there are data on this. One of the most important affairs last year is a subsidisation scam for organic production. There are millions and millions or euros, and one of the first, certainly, investigative actions of the European prosecutor who has been delegated to Croatia, quite certainly with our prosecution, will probably be because in Croatia we are a mandatory part of our funds to return the EU because it has been found that abuse has been spent. Now, what is trying to do in Croatia as enhanced co-operation, we welcome Croatian sovereigns because it is for the benefit of the Croatian legal system for the effective fight against all forms of crime, especially organised crime and this type of fraud, international and good that you have set up, it is absolutely appropriate that you put that department in USKOK, the department of these delegated European prosecutors because in fact, there will be a maximum of information available to them, tools legal to fight the most difficult forms of crime. Practically, it will have the same powers as our colleagues from USKOK in Croatia, will have the same access to the pools of information. It may have been in my opinion or somehow further stressed, but it's quite.../incomprehensible/... it's already understandable that they have close cooperation with the taxpayer. But they're models now. Security check, of course, it's all about them. What should have been harshly foreseen in this special law, that not all other laws should be amended, is not foreseen. Anticipated means 11 officers and tenants and in this case 2 delegated public, European public prosecutors, we will see how in the first years when their Mrs. Kövessi does not seem to have many tasks, it is possible that he will be doing jobs exclusively related to the Croatian judicial system, and we will pay them additionally for this. What remains here certainly very well, that we have one form of this professional high, well, publicly subject to body surveillance model, external control of the body of our authorities in Croatia, repressive because Mrs. Kövessi, who is head of the office and the European prosecutor herself, will certainly not compromise, will not have any compromise on us and we have no doubt that she will insist that these laws and all the objectives that the European Regulation, or 2017/39, have fully respected. And that kind of transfer of sovereignty is not controversial to us. It is a transfer of sovereignty that allows all Croatian citizens to be more secure than fraud, thieves, so we can only benefit from such a delegation of part of the judicial jurisdiction or strengthening the involvement of European authorities in our legal system. He can only stand by how things are now intoxicating and strengthening and contributing to efficiency. I agree with all colleagues who say it will also contribute to the increased fight against corruption in Croatia. However, our bodies, which will be able to communicate on a daily basis with colleagues from the European Union, will practically pass the existing mechanisms of the euro area, the European judicial network, the European arrest warrant, the European investigative order, will have practical cooperation on a daily basis with all colleagues and colleagues, and this will be a very large contribution to the fight against crime, and we do so, and we can see even that Mrs. Kovesi, the European Prosecutor, has reserved the right to initiate strict proceedings before the state's attorney council against her colleagues of the delegated state prosecutors, which is also another clear sign that there will be no compromise and will fully monitor it, also by professional and professional level, not only the legal exercise of our legislation, our powers. But in any case, it will oversee this responsible professional approach to take all measures by sharing those powers with our chief state attorney. I think everything is well balanced except for the word "support". I see the money is secured to start around 3 million kuna in the first year. I should also just add here, I hope it will work out, the Croatian public has been informed in the report of our chief state prosecutor who is now seriously ill, so she cannot defend this report but the report says that since 2014, our USKOK has not completed the department of financial investigations. That's disastrous. That department needs to be set up if it's not staffed. Because this European Department of Delegated Public Prosecutors can't even function if it doesn't have exactly as tools, as aid to the Suport, the people most professionally in charge of financial audits of these books, everything else, so that we don't embarrass you for predicting the fullness of the staff departments of the delegated European prosecutors. Please, if it wasn't done immediately find any fill-in of these 14 hundred state prosecutors, make it official in the USKOK Department of Financial Investigations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26014	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26015	The expectations of the fight against corruption in Croatia have always been much greater than the results of the means that we, as citizens and society, have finally received. We all remember this process of joining the European Union when this fight against corruption won some momentum and I said so through a replica in terms of the detention of some high-profile, high-ranking and politicians and officials. Unfortunately, there were very few final outcomes that would satisfy Croatian citizens. And what's certainly good is a certain surveillance. Participation means the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, and especially in terms of what colleagues before me have talked about certain subsidies, means that they come from the European Union where we are aware that there are many problems. In this regard, I think that human resources will also play an important role, but independently and in human resources, and that pressure means this European context that will certainly affect our bodies' behaviour. I also expect this fight against corruption in Croatia to finally win a swing. We see today that we have the release of some of the key actors of the Janaf affair. Unfortunately, today in the Croatian Parliament, an investigative committee was rejected, although there was no relevant argument. We have always been assured by colleagues from the ruling majority that during the ongoing investigation we cannot deal with any specific matter under investigation. And when we offered one investigative committee that would explore the whole context, they saw where the problems in our system were, which we as a legislative body can do that commission was rejected and even with some cynical arguments that no commission had ever produced results. Of course it's not when the rulings have always obstructed him. And unfortunately, we still need some outside surveillance. We still need a boost from the outside. We still need a boost to fight corruption. We would all be most fortunate if Croatia had such justice and such institutions that are completely independent, which do not need a pusher. Unfortunately, in our midst, the pusher is heading towards obstruction of the investigation, in the direction of storage in drawers of certain objects. It is enough to see who are the key people of our policy, who manages the City of Zagreb, who manages and who plays a key role, e.g. and in the City of Split in a coalition with HDZ, not to mention dozens, perhaps hundreds of local sheriffs and leaders who are almost irreplaceable. Especially where there are fewer voters there to buy a certain part of that electoral body, cover and there are changes almost impossible. I'm saying this from my own experience. We succeeded on our own example in a small community, a local community, a small town to be removed by a sheriff, but I'll be honest with you here, we were very lucky. We were very lucky, it's very difficult when they get caught up, when they're determined there's almost impossible to do anything about it. And that's where we need our institutions, our DORH, our judiciary to do their job properly, and until we reach that point, then we need this kind of incentive from outside. Although this European Public Prosecutor's Office does not have the authority to arrest persons for criminal offences in its jurisdiction, it will already mean that these delegated European prosecutors carry out investigations and prosecutions together with national police and law enforcement bodies. So again, our institutions are the key. But still, when you have someone above you, it is immediately different and you are aware that someone is controlling the entire process. What needs to be said here, however, is that this establishment of this European Public Prosecutor's Office and integration means in our system and cooperation with our bodies to enable more successful persecution and return of what is most important to people. The SDP colleagues laughed here when one MP in the last meeting asked where the money was, the little performance was bad, but the question was right. So the question is always good and current who will return the alienated, stolen money. That's what all Croatian citizens are interested in. And what I want to do again from this place, it's amazing that two people who were released today were never investigated by the tax administration by their disproportionate property. It is the mayor of Velika Gorica and Dragan Kovacevic never came under the influence of the IRS, and the IRS and IRS actions must now be an incentive for other bodies, law enforcement bodies to react. They've never explored their disproportionate property, and that's what we all have to worry about here. And that is why, regardless of what we would like for the Croatian state to function, we also need this incentive from the outside. In the hope that the Croatian institutions will function, that they will be independent and that we will need as few of these outwards and complaints as possible, here I conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26016	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26017	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The European Public Prosecutor has been introduced to combat the perpetrators of criminal offences against the financial interests of the Union. The data tells us that over 50 billion euros in VAT revenues are lost annually due to cross-border fraud of European states' budgets. The European Public Prosecutor's Office or EPPO was therefore established. The EPPO exists since EU institutions such as OLAF, EUROJUST or EUROPOL do not have sufficient powers to carry out criminal investigations. Therefore, EU countries have decided it is necessary to step up co-operation in the way of establishing a highly specialised prosecution office. This also results in changes to the legal rules. It is important to note that the regulation takes precedence over national law. The Office is scheduled to have jurisdiction over investigations into the initiation of criminal prosecutions in connection with the offences of damage to the budget of the European Union. The Regulation establishing the Office of the Public Prosecutor was adopted on 12 October 2017. She took effect in November of the same year. The first prosecutor was elected to Laura Kovessi while she was headquartered in Luxemburg. In addition to the Office’s main prosecutor, one prosecutor from each EU Member State making up the Office’s college is involved. In addition to those referred to in each Member State of the European Union, at least two delegated European prosecutors will act. The decentralised bodies in Croatia therefore constitute two delegated European prosecutors. They are at operational level integrated into the Croatian State's Attorney's Office system. But they're part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. As precise regulation of the relationship between the provisions of the Regulation and national law is necessary, there are two options. The first option is to partially amend and supplement several national regulations. Or second, to pass a single regulation that would resolve all issues of procedural nature as well as those of organisational nature, thus creating a framework for the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is the purpose of the adoption of the Law implementing the Regulation of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor of the EPPO. In accordance with the above, a new category of prosecutors is being created. They are part of the State's Attorney's Office system and will be integrated into the USKOK system. Indeed and local authorities will be the County Court in Zagreb, which is the first-degree body in those cases in which the indictment will be represented by a delegated European prosecutor. In the event of a conflict of jurisdiction between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Prosecutor's Office, a chief state attorney has been designated as the competent authority to resolve the conflict of jurisdiction. In the event that a strict procedure against a delegated European prosecutor is necessary, the case may be initiated by the European Prosecutor-General. The tight procedure may be initiated by a Member State with the approval of the Prosecutor-General of Europe. The Republic of Croatia shall provide contributions to the salaries of two delegated European prosecutors and the amount of salaries and contributions made to the salaries of 11 officials and seconded to the department of delegated European prosecutors and the means where the delegated prosecutor also performs the tasks of the national prosecutor. In addition, the costs of the IT system as well as the costs of intellectual services are provided. Although EU member states are some of the richest and most developed countries in the world and therefore expect a lower degree of corruption compared to less developed countries, unfortunately corruption affects the EU as well. It is too high to say the same about Croatia where corruption affairs are unfortunately a common phenomenon. I repeat, unfortunately. 22 Member States are participating in enhanced cooperation. It is Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Greece, Croatia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Germany, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Latvia, Estonia, Austria, Italy and the latter joined by the Netherlands and Malta. The European Public Prosecutor's Office shall be responsible for investigations, prosecution and prosecution in accordance with EU Directive 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017. In this particular case, the EPPO shall act as prosecutors before the competent courts of the Member States. This is precisely the difference with regard to other bodies, such as OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, which can only forward the results of its administrative investigations to competent national authorities which then independently decide whether to initiate a criminal proceedings based on OLAF findings. Today, only 50% of the judicial recommendations submitted by OLAF to the national judicial authorities will be ended by a conviction. What is crucial is the low rate of return of the amounts lost due to fraud. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a permanent body and will benefit from the benefits of European and national levels. The "EPPO" is important because so far only the authorities of the Member States have been able to carry out investigations and prosecutions in the event of fraud against the EU's financial interests but the powers of national authorities cease at national borders. From the above, we see the need for the European Public Prosecutor's Office to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26018	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26019	Thank you. So I asked a question in the replica that I was actually interested in, and that's whether, when we went into this whole procedure, whether there was an assessment of the necessary capacity and based on the data that you mentioned so far, what percentage of OLAF's recommendations actually end in the process, which of these processes ends in a judgment and how much of them we can recover. Also, how many years of such crimes do we have that actually, which are related to the European budget, in order to actually be able to prepare what the capacities are that we need because I didn't see it in an explanation when the law came to us but I thought you might have done it, I think it would certainly be good to do it for a reason that I can plan the necessary capacity because capacity is not only a prosecutor but everything that will actually be needed to conduct an investigation. I also wanted to point out one important thing which is that the delegated European prosecutors, among other things, are to be accepted as such because they are proposed by the national states, so we will propose them, will be elected by the main European prosecutor on a proposal from the College, but they must be proven independent and would indeed be appealed here to sort of write down the means of proof of these criteria and generally the criteria are more detailed and that we do not have cases as we did in the selection of the main state attorney that all are being sent in freestyle where, as criteria for selecting alleged personal facts from the history of the family as relevant for this workplace, it would be very good to avoid this kind of embarrassment. Therefore, as regards the material jurisdiction of this European public prosecutor, it concerns mainly those crimes which are related to the European budget as we have said. And now I expect that there will actually be a lot of work because we are already in this first financial perspective of 2014-2020, whether there are actually a number of cases and numerous affairs related to the use of European funds or what corresponds to the description of the crime of the subsidy fraud. For example, the Croatian government boasts every little bit about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and notes that 16.5 billion kuna has already been invested in the project. It should be kept in mind that it is agreed projects and not still implemented and that some last until the end of 2022. So, for example, from this programme and the project Slavonia, profited, of course, from Mr. Franjo Lucic's family where Tofrado from the Pleternica, owned by Tomislav, managed to secure a large subsidy of 14.8 million kunas. Half of this amount was obtained to restructure and modernise the competitiveness of the agricultural holding, and this was the company that had previously been engaged in no agricultural production but exclusively in trade but managed to obtain almost 14 million kuna in total. But that's not all, he got another son of Lucic, he got his property, he got his wife's nephew, all together as investigators calculated, the Lucic family received 16 million kuna from the Slavonia project. In doing so, Franjo Lucic, as former owner of two failed companies, transferred all his assets to children so that he does not now own anything of property other than a 15 000 kuna farm, so there is the Tax Administration, neither his or his wife, was able to collect the tax debt at that time in the amount of 700,000 kuna. Great, you get $16 million from the state, you owe another $700,000, and then you can't be charged because you passed it on to the kids. Not to mention that the Slavonia project also received significant resources from the Aladrovic family and several members of our minister's family, it also found itself the son of a known convicted bully in the Tomasevic mayor's family. But it's interesting, of course, when you look at all the projects that are funded through this project Slavonia, so for example, I always go for the 9.4 million kuna project called "The House of Tea, Oasis of Peace" where we build in Slavonia as many as 6 tea-tasting buildings in that one place, I think that in Špisić Bukovica, the educational hall, the teaching trail, etc., and all this is nice, raises some tourist infrastructure, but let's be realistic, is this the priority of investment in Slavonia and don't people need investment priorities in Slavonia? And when I analyzed all the projects from... The Slavonia project, I saw that, of course, a large part of them go into infrastructure or some infrastructure-related projects, a part large in the economy and, in fact, a priority precisely because of large inequalities, precisely because of the high poverty rate, was investment in people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, that's not how it happened. So, as for the subsidized fraud, we have to say, another case that's surprisingly not from HDZ, that you're not saying that I'm just counting your cases so that I'm biased, this one's not, this one's directly the former Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina's fault. So this is the case of Pipunić Marka and the company of the daughter Žito d.o.o. So he opened three companies, with all three companies applying for support, got 38 and a half million kuna of approved company support, but of course, at some point, the EU realized that he had opened three different firms just so he could through three companies withdraw funds and that it was actually about fraud. And there was a procedure against him and what happened in the meantime was that the funds were not returned but that, in fact, the state was supposed to pay him off because they lost the case in court. And since they lost the case in court, that's what I was telling you today. So they lost the case in court in a way that the case following the appeal was assigned to a first-degree decision not to an automatic and random assignment but to a single solver, in a way that the President or the President of the Court assigned the case to himself. And it's not the only case you've assigned yourself. The state of the Republic of Croatia is losing the case, it must pay these companies what they were supposed to get from European funds, 38 million kuna, and what is the epilogue? The state paid it, and Mr. Pipunić sold a 50% stake in these companies to a Hungarian company, so here we helped develop a company that is not even ours anymore. So, I want to tell you that the way we have managed this whole surveillance process so far, the detection of the subsidy fraud and then the proceedings of the court about it was really bad, and I am really looking forward to establishing this enhanced cooperation, and I really think in particular that the main European prosecutor Laura Kovesi, the famous fighter, the anti-corruption fighter from Romania who managed to raise the reputation of the anti-corruption directorate to 60% of the citizens' trust, 60% of the citizens of Romania had confidence in her and her work, so I believe that we will succeed in this cooperation to establish mechanisms at least to combat corruption in terms of European funds. If you could still do this with regard to the funds coming from the state budget and all other anti-corruption works, where we would end. And I want to finally say that one of the key things when we enter this process now is to create criteria for selecting which not only will be good because it is about enhanced cooperation with the European office but which we will then apply to our state lawyers. So let's see, maybe this triggers some kind of wave to raise the total criteria that we have in selecting those who need to conduct criminal proceedings in anti-corruption cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26020	Thank you very much. Here's the time for us to rewind the room, so I'll see you at 18 and 15. It's 6:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26021	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.15 HOURS]] The next debate is on behalf of HDZ MP Drazen Bosnjakovic, a video link. Hello, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26022	Hello. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I present our position on the Law implementing the EU Council regulations on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is actually an idea that has long been discussed in the EU and, frankly, its idea and goal is actually to respond to the financial fraud that is happening within the EU. The Union is aware, in fact, that very often its financial interests are threatened by various criminal groups. In fact, there is another EU directive of Parliament and of the Council of 2017 on the prevention of fraud committed against the financial interests of the Union. Based on this idea, in fact, it also recommended a certain normative and certain institutional framework in order for the Union to respond more effectively and efficiently to these phenomena, and we in our legislation, so by amending the 2018 Penal Code, have answered that question and have recognised all those crimes that have an impact and means all those crimes that can harm the financial interests of the Union, such as tax evasion or customs evasion, subsidisation, fraud in economic business. Also, those acts that have a strong impact on the financial interests of the Union, which are money laundering, so bribery, bribery giving, evasion, labour fraud, and these are all the works that in principle follow in their description in fact those frameworks that are... with that directive that we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we going to implement than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the first thing about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] National legislation, we all have to take part in this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we know, this project does not involve all EU member states, it is about 22 countries because there have been a lot of disagreements in this process, some have felt that we should fight in this way, some have thought that the Union already has a good institutional framework through OLAF, through Eurojust, Europol, that these are all organisations that we should primarily engage in, but then in the process, in fact, this whole idea has nevertheless turned out to require one such, to say, a party body within which the fight against financial fraud would be organised. We support this law and we think that it is also a nomotechnical good, one law actually transposes and implements the Council's regulation, that it is not possible, it was to organise it in a way that changes and some laws like... But we think this is exactly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things are in order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the context of this debate, it is extremely important to say that this fight must be effective, and this fight cannot be limited to one country alone, it cannot be limited to national legislation only, but this one, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, is considered as one link, as one coordinator of all activities at the level of national legislation of all Member States. We see here, in fact, that the organization of this Office is at one central and one decentralised level. This centralized consists in fact of the chief prosecutor himself who has his deputies and in fact that office makes one representative from every country,... each country, and these are delegated, in fact, at the level of national legislation, but are part of the entire project of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our case, it's specified that it's in the BOOK and there's actually what it's... As a matter of fact, it will be with all the countries... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and quite a challenge and space actually for that upgrade of that system because here we will see that there are great challenges in the national legislation itself that are different from country to country and we see that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The countries and the criminal proceedings themselves have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the prosecutors... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] investigations of a particular correlation with the court, in particular with us, the court must allow, approve and confirm both the indictment and the initiation of an investigation and must actually decide on the approval of detention and any procedural matters, which, for example, in some other countries, the court does not have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so this Office will have to actually take great care to function within different national systems and therefore,... Looking, and yet if looking institutionally and how this, exists within themselves... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are also different definitions of the offences themselves that reflect the financial interests. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will certainly have more space and there will be challenges for its action to be harmonised with one of these... [[The speaker doesn't understand. The speaker doesn't understand.]] where each country has its own specific and different solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this must not be an obstacle to the system... It is clear that here Croatia has found itself in that round of countries that support this idea and this project, which I think is good and we think that it can actually be well realised to fight corruption and to fight crime and at our natural national level, that it can be one step further for the quality and better functioning of the system that applies, which is limited only to within the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, this is an institute that already has one long line of years to discuss it and absolutely unless there were links to national legislation, to national institutions, to national prosecutors, clearly that you couldn't live up to it as some kind of body that had no contact with the national. We these solutions that are here in the law we support, we believe that the model of one law regulates it and that it is implemented in the judiciary, that it is a good solution, we believe that in the future... monitor how this institution develops, how it functions and in agreement with all other Member States of the Union that support the establishment of the office will participate in the discussion and upgrade of this national framework and we will certainly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] either within our legislation and our and our judiciary, we have also chosen the person who will be a member of that office at that central level and in a transparent procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] candidates, we had a special commission that was authorized to propose a choice and that procedure was carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Somewhere in some countries, for example, in Malta, I know where the problem was that they didn't even have a candidate who would have met the requirements of being there and being put in there and the commission is actually dealing with these problems, jumping up on how to solve these problems but in any case, the Union is fully aware that the budget it has, that all of those processes that this budget is implemented by Member States are susceptible and to some unwanted situations and some kind of unwanted processes where criminal groups occur and they find the methods of whatever the system, they find their methods and ways to act outside the framework of the law. Therefore, the EU budget, which we also, in some way, participate in our payments to that budget, and we also participate in certain requirements to obtain certain funds from that budget, must be put together with all other Member States... This is what I'm saying, in fact, that the EU budget and financial interests are not something supernatural, something that we don't actually experience... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] it is clear that we are participating both ourselves and through these payments where we are paying revenue into that budget but also through the other part that we are very interested in, where we see... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the financial perspective and we're participating significantly through... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we support this law and support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26023	This concludes the debate on behalf of clubs, followed by an individual debate, is the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26024	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In this way, I think we know that we are implementing Council regulations in our legal system through the draft draft bill, such a regulation is before us regarding 2017, related to cooperation and related to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is based on that "main directive" and that is to say, the PIF Directive, also in 2017, relating to the prevention of fraud committed against the financial interests of the Union in criminal law. in criminal acts and these two regulations are linked, we have heard here also in the opening statement of the Secretary of State why we are implementing this new European Public Prosecutor's Office and we ourselves know and see, by adopting the new EU budget and implementing normally, these funds and national budgets, how much this institute is chosen and how interesting it will be to monitor the development of exactly and the establishment of but also the work of the European Prosecutor's Office itself, as well as the delegated prosecutors at the national level itself. It is also organised central and decentralised, as we heard at the central level, already the main European prosecutor at the term of office of 7 years and through her and the colleges, but also through her delegated European prosecutors, will oversee exactly criminal matters related to both prosecution and prosecution of criminals against the financial interests of the EU on the basis of these and these two directives. She will, and when we propose our delegated European prosecutors, have the last word, probably who she will accept in her office. This law deals with a number of questions from the attorneys themselves, the actual and local jurisdiction that we have put here at the County Court in Zagreb, I wonder, I think we could decentralise this a little bit, perhaps a little already burdened County Court in Zagreb a little bit, and maybe bring it down to the level of the County Court in Split, and possibly this office opens up in Split and Split-Dalmatia County, I don't think we would have any objection about it. The only exception to real and local jurisdiction is in the proceedings against minors where the Law on Juvenile Courts will apply. In the introduction, I failed to understand well, i.e. Nor ask the Secretary of State himself, and this is about the creation of an office, an eye, that will operate in Zagreb, I am interested in the funds that will be used by this Office and our delegated European prosecutors, will they, because they go from EU funds or will be on the burden of the Republic of Croatia. Because I saw somewhere that, however, that, if we had agreed on the model part of it, unlike full-time, so that these delegated European prosecutors would still be working on national cases. But someone, before that, asked how many of these items were, I think, from 2016 to 2019, cases were related to the delegation, i.e. related to the EU was about 22, so again, we need to see the burden of these prosecutors themselves as much as they will be able to do just that, if they will still work partly on the national cases themselves. We know how much Croatia has provided in this budget in the next 7-year financial plan, i.e. All together in the next decade, that's 24.2 billion euros. We also know what the economic interest is, not only the Republic of Croatia but also the EU, so that these substances must be protected and it will be very interesting how this Office will function and how it will be placed in the Republic itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26025	The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26026	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Well, the fact is that Croatian citizens are dissatisfied with the judiciary as a whole, and they are particularly unhappy with the work of the law enforcement body, somehow consider it a devastating situation and defeating the results in the fight against corruption mostly their guilt. Well, then, everyone's already warmly welcoming the establishment of an office like this, thinking it's a silver bullet that will solve all our problems. To understand each other right away, in principle, I support them, and I look forward to their work, and I expect good results, but I also want to point out a few problems, because we will not hear them in this assembly either, and I dare say that there will be few judges and few state lawyers who will open up, loudly and clearly talk about them in public. I mean, how imaginary this is. This is the implementation of a regulation by the EU Council, so we will have a central office in Luxembourg where the main European prosecutor will be Laura Kövesi and her deputies will be one European prosecutor from each of the 22 Member States. In addition, we will have a decentralised level consisting of decentralised European prosecutors who are located and operate in their Member States with special powers and positions assigned to them and have the same powers as national prosecutors in respect of investigations, prosecution and prosecution. What's the problem? In the light of this proposal, the promoter himself says that the EU council regulation is governed by the national legal order and has direct applicability and shows in itself as soon as we pass such a law, that our judiciary has no self-awareness, no self-esteem, no courage to implement directly, or directly implement an EU Council regulation which, in fact, is already in force in Croatia by the letter of law. And then we argue in the light of this law, that by analysing the provisions of that regulation and our national legislation, we have seen that there are some discrepancies, so we will correct them as this law. I'm expressing a deep, deep suspicion that this is about it. I think that on a small door like that, hidden somewhere in the footnotes here, we want to put EU prosecution employees under the hat and boot of the national state's attorney's office for a number of reasons. So I'm going to sum it up. Therefore, the Council Regulation requires the Member States participating in this enhanced cooperation mechanism to designate the competent national authorities to carry out certain prescribed tasks and is proposed by this proposal to prescribe the authority of the main national attorney of the Republic of Croatia to be the competent authority for the resolution of the conflict of jurisdiction between the national prosecutor's office and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And what does this mean now in practice on a specific subject? Imagine that our national but European prosecutors want to deal with one investigation, malfeasance in the use of EU funds, and that this should be done on the basis of the EU Council's regulation and in some way under the supervision of this central office in Luxembourg, but our own, presently, main state attorney or anyone who succeeds it, and no, no, it is our national jurisdiction and it will be done by our USKOK and our DORH. And that's where the whole story falls into the water. So, in my view, if at some point they are in conflict with the interpretation of jurisdiction on the one hand, our national prosecution and, on the other hand, the central office in Luxembourg and their decentralised prosecutors here in Croatia, then it is entirely illogical for me, and it is actually legal absurd for us to assign one of the parties to this dispute to rule this conflict over delegation or definition of jurisdiction. This law is actually unnecessary, in this form and this content, and I say it shows the impotence of our national legislation to apply the EU Council regulations directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26027	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26028	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Oreshkovic, I'm a little contradictory, at first you said that these European delegated prosecutors will be above ours, then you're saying that our chief prosecutor will be able to choose jurisdiction. I mean, about the very conflict of jurisdiction, who should ultimately rule? And we don't have to look at this new institute as a foreign body. Normally, by entering the EU, part of sovereignty and so on we have not given up a word of justice, but we have entered a union and we are playing by maybe a little different rules, but we do not have to look, yet this will be our prosecutors, we do not have to see it as a foreign body that someone imposes something on us or that they will do some things that are not domestic. These delegated prosecutors will still be appointed by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26029	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26030	Yeah, yeah, you didn't get it right. Well, it doesn't matter if they're ours or yours, it's important they're independent. Now let me explain in a way that you can understand. When in Croatian law we have a conflict between two courts or two different bodies on the conflict of jurisdiction, the conflict of jurisdiction usually solves a directly more common body, right? In this law, we gave up that principle, so in a situation where we have a dispute between the two sides, one of these two has given us the right to resolve this dispute. I think this should be clear to every average citizen that something is wrong here. It's not an emergency that authorized prosecutors have, as you would say, a state's chief attorney as someone who's in charge and who's kind of afraid of him. This will weaken what the EU Council regulation wants to achieve and everything our citizens hope for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26031	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, dear representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26032	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Art. 238, I hope I'm wrong in this breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said you'd explain to me how I might understand. I hope it wasn't with the tallest since I'm a fellow lawyer like you, and we don't have to watch it in order for someone to understand in terms of how our average citizen will understand, we don't have to look very high on citizens that some parts won't understand, let alone at me, but I hope I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26033	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26034	.../Intruder Oreshkovic: I think our citizens understand that, I don't think you are./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26035	You don't have an answer, it wasn't a replica. ... So please, come out, go to your place because it's not a replica, you're finished, and you, Mr. Bačić, get a warning. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26036	Here's a little help for our valuable staff who's been here all day with us. When we talk about the European Public Prosecutor, I know that he will be appointed to Croatia by a decentralised public prosecutor, his office here that he will have in Croatia, but I would say here to the Secretary of State and Assistant Ministers that the Croatian people have 5 regrets and I said the biggest, mistrust in 5 things, that I told the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Giuri Sessi, when I first told the judiciary, the second is the judiciary, the third is the judiciary, the fourth is the judiciary and the fifth is the fifth, and the most important thing that is, that is, I told Đuri Sessi that the most important bag, the judiciary is one of the most important bags, and this non-trust has led to it, the level that the economics, development of the Republic of Croatia is stagnating and we have seen how Croatia works and the whole system on the case of Janaf, how the corrupt octopus has independently, how it has influence in independent bodies how the measures and how it works. If you think that by prescribing regulations, the directive and delegating one of the prosecutors to be appointed by the European Prosecutor, i.e. The appointment is based on, Croatia will appoint someone, in fact, that we are changing that system. We must, today you needed a colleague of Bačić, a colleague from HDZ to show when the commission was to test out the impact of politics on independent bodies. Well, you know, dear Secretary of State, that all policies regarding the judicial bodies, you are the assistant minister. Everything. Everything. From appointments, court appointments, municipal numbers, everything is politics, everything. And everything in the bag. That's exactly what I said to Gyura Cessy. Bag, bag, bag. And if we're seriously not prepared as parliamentary representatives and we don't have the courage to form a commission to see the impact of politics on independent bodies that are visible in Janaf, Krsh Padjene, it costs our citizens. And to talk about subsidies, incentives and co-financing from European funds, never again, I'm going to list a few examples. It's never been given more in farm incentives than it is now. We've never produced less, never less domestic products. And never imported again. What's he telling you? If the incentives were European, they are also ours but we, Croatia is a member, so it pays the EU, Croatian citizens and that administration, and funds, means that essentially that money is not given where to give. It's given to people, for example, in dairy, in cattle farming, it's given to people who don't know how many cows have tits. I can confirm that to you in terms of the karst pastures. They get incentives for the eco-maintaining of karst pastures of people in the foothills who don't know what a cow has tits, what a cow looks like, which is ox, which is a bull, which is a cow, they don't know, they take incentives and that's a fact. Not to mention public procurement. Public procurements are JANAF, you saw what it has, you have a bench there one you always have someone from the judiciary, 3 Minister, you have a money counter, you have a bag to bring, put it in the counter, you count it quickly, there it comes, as far as energy is concerned, the minister threatens the environment of Ćorić or a man who likes to play the cards, Butković, he, by the way, came to play the cards of great love of cards and that's... And that's how public procurement is solved, so that in the end you will destroy competition, competition, and have good sponsors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the disproportionateness of the property, no one asked Kovacevic Dragan about the disproportionateness of the property or anyone would ask him. So you're in waste management, the waste management centre, so we could discuss the whole story, mainly public procurement, incentives, EU funds subsidies. But this is not the solution because we don't have the courage, we, show the team, to side with independent bodies, you don't have the courage because the triba always affects independent bodies to survive in the system of players who pull the strings in the shadows, by clubs, dark, black, dark, and that time when people get away, when we have the measures of the crown, they're supposed to map, but with bills and a bag of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26037	We have one replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26038	Now, dear colleague Bulj, therefore, listening to your predecessor, a colleague of Grmoy who said he would support this office and so, but also your exposure, I would ask you to answer the question, in fact, one finding where you referred that it wasn't Kovacevic's property, the tax administration didn't come to him at all. But this new, Nadana Vidosevic, we see and now she's here, etc. However, the fact is that since 2014, therefore, according to our main state attorney's report, since 2014, in the department for, in the department of USKOK, we have not been set up, so it is foreseen, the department for financial investigations, since 2014. Look, he's not loaded, so there's no one here, so please put it in the spirit of this new proposal right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26039	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26040	Thank you very much. So I always think of a former minister during Prime Minister Sanader, here, ask counterpart Bacic, State Secretary Boric, if they know whether or not the example of the president of HS, Mr Jadrokovic, know if Sanader. When they talk to each other, when it's about Sanader, we don't know who it is. I'm talking about the Prime Minister, why? Because the system, because if the system, if it has no intention of fighting it, and if we as parliamentary representatives, today, you colleagues, you, you, you, look at me, you voted against the investigative commission that will be, we Parliamentarians, whom the people legitimateize, to see the influence of politics on independent bodies, then fellow Sacic, so they can put 300 people there, if we do not show the political will to fight and the lack of corruption and crime, believe me, there's nothing out of it. The system will continue to be a food chain, mainly in politics and through political campaigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26041	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Juro Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26042	... Thank you, Chairman of HS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representatives and MPs, thank you for, I would say to constructive discussions about this legal document which, and most of you agreed to is inevitable, necessary, therefore, and in that sense I am pleased by the way you normally discussed today, at least you who spoke of beings who spoke about this law. So we have a short need, one MP has been troubled by capacities and resources to work, of course, the means of work are secured, they are in the first year about 3.5 million, slightly less because in the first year they will be projected the most costs, in the second year it is somewhere at 2.5 million and so should be for the future. These costs relate to everything that this department of USKOK will spend, to the primary labour force that these two people for whom we will pay contributions, so health and pension, will actually be paid by them on their own from their net salary, then the state will refund them. So the funds are secured. The criteria which are not visible under this law have been problematicd, believe me that the criteria are very precise and high-quality and they are prescribed by the Regulation on the terms and procedure of proposing candidates for the appointment of delegated European prosecutors and this Regulation has come into force today, published in the National Journal. So, colleague Oreshkovic has been having problems with whether this law was necessary. I have to tell you that I don't have any dilemmas, but let's say for myself, I can say that I don't matter, the task force has been working on this law that was made up of representatives of the academic community, so scientific community, the Department of Law in Zagreb, representatives of the DORH, the Supreme Court, the Attorney's Office and, of course, this part of the Ministry of Justice, now the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, part of the Department of Criminal Law. There has been serious and difficult work to do in communication with Brussels, in communication with our representative in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, therefore, all the Member States that have accessed this project, 22 of them, have joined in the same way, so the regulation is, of course, directly applicable to, in our legal framework, but this is the implementing regulation that we are regulating certain things that the regulation simply did not regulate. It's just, for example, I'll tell you that it's not this regulation then jurisdiction could be all courts in the Republic, we narrowed it down. As far as this observation of colleague Oreskovic is concerned about the fact that we have entered the law, we have given the planned obstruction, because you see, because of the conflict of jurisdiction between... The domestic DORH and European, someone has to arbitration, she's right as a lawyer, when she says it would be someone third above each other, in this situation there is no third, and we of course had this topic for several hours on the working group. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We had a dilemma, I would say, sovereignly, whether to leave it to Brussels or leave it in Croatian jurisdiction. We think it will be small, but in that dilemma, we simply gave priority to the head of state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia, or the lawyer, when that happens, to judge him. Of course, what is the tool for those who do not believe? The tool is the EU court in Luxembourg, which is, among other things, in charge of interpreting EU rules. He can quickly take a stand that this is not right, so it will work differently. Here, therefore, once again thank you for correct and constructive discussions and for supporting this law. We, as a promoter, so the Government, have also received 3 amendments from the Committee on Legislatives, so nomotechnical in nature to Article. 2nd, Art. Article 4 5. So, nomotechnics are clean and we accept both the 1st and 2nd and 3rd amendments of the HS Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26043	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26044	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, just a quick question. Why did we opt for this model part of it in terms of these items to come, would it be too much of a burden for delegated prosecutors and wouldn't it be better if they were just working on those cases? This way, national objects may be overloading them too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26045	Thank you for this question, so I even had an intention, so here, I missed it. So the big dilemma was from the beginning, when we entered this legal project, full or part of it. So Brussels advocated immediately full-time, many countries that have approached this project have consistently resisted, and so have we, too, easily resisted and then made a compromise in direct negotiations with the main European prosecutor, to start with it, expecting that we will not have too much work to do at the beginning. So part of it is only at this starting stage until it's expected that they will have, that they will have for full drive, then we as a country in one part will pay them if they work for us. So that's not the problem for pro futuro just in that first start-up phase of stalking. And one more thing I have to say to everyone, so this law doesn't come into force,.../incomprehensible/... it's being published in the National Journal, it doesn't come into force as a classic law. It will come into force with the EU Commission's decision when the main European prosecutor informs her that the Office is ready to start work. So the Office of the European Prosecutor, not these delegated ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-15-0.u26046	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
