ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194886	Start at 9.30. Good afternoon. We only have one item on the agenda, try to be reasonable and think of others who are here with you and those who are waiting for you in the house, so be as short as possible, so be as short as possible. The final bill of law, because the same family is waiting for you at home, etc. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 855 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Finance and the State Budget. Mr Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance is with us and will give us an introduction to this urgent, actually final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this final proposal therefore fully transposes Directive 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the strengthening of the framework for the prevention of money laundering in order to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. Since the directive mentioned above is mostly transposed into the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, there remains a small part to be transposed by this legislative proposal, which primarily refers to the wider coverage of account information held in the central account register, so-called ‘the ‘Current Account’. the unique account register and the determination of the time limit for keeping the data in that register. I would only remind myself that the provisions in question should have been part of the reform of the executive procedure by adopting the new Executive Act and by virtue of it, the new Regulation on the single account register, however, as you all know, this proposal of the Implementing Law went to the third reading in the Croatian Parliament and it was also necessary to resolve these provisions that due to the deadlines set. That's when the government dealt with this in its own regulation. On 31 January, the High House submitted a report on the regulations it had adopted with the legal force, and now this same is being translated into a law which, as I mentioned, was to be incorporated or fully transposed into the Implementing Law, which is therefore, foreseen for the third reading. As for the news, the law is complemented by the following. Additional information is required to be supplied to the single account register by data providers. So, bonds are CNB banks, housing savings, credit unions. In addition to the prescribed data, the bonds will also provide data on the real owners of the legal persons holding the accounts of the armed assets and safes, as well as on natural persons authorised to make available the funds according to the accounts of the authorised funds of residential savings deposits and deposits in credit unions and the natural persons of the safe users. In addition, the bonds are required to delete the data they have provided in the single account register and the data they have downloaded from the single account register after the expiry of the 10 years following the completion of the business relationship between the data providers and the business entities or consumers. The circle of bodies directly e-mailed and free of charge shall be extended to all data contained in the single account register. In addition to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a financial intelligence unit of the Republic of Croatia, it will also make available to the authorities responsible for overseeing the application of the law governing the prevention of money laundering. In order to enable the forced payment of fines potentially imposed by the CNB or the single resolution committee to this final proposal for the law, two new payment bases are added, which is a warrant for the forced payment of fines imposed by the CNB’s executive decision or order for the implementation of the decision of the Single Sanitary Committee on the payment of fines and periodic penalty. It is also established that courts and other competent authorities may, when technical conditions are met, provide the basis for payment to the financial agency and by electronic means by modelling the already established electronic level of writing in bankruptcy proceedings. Here's the short part, that's it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194888	Thank you, too. First we have three replicas. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194889	Thank you very much. As you said, this law was supposed to be. This change was supposed to be in the Executive Act, you say it was not yet in order, but the fact that it was talking about money laundering, the fact that in Croatia it was legal to launder money through the largest bank, that the CNB kept it quiet, that there was no media, that it was 2.9 billion kuna money laundering, that came out through the media, so at this point when the crisis is those who launder money and support money laundering are banks in the Republic of Croatia with the help of the CNB. I think already when it comes to the executive law that we should take a measure of this crown virus to affect our citizens, there is great uncertainty and instability of people, that we should make it necessary to suspend the executions. So we should find the possibility legally, I think it would be much more productive, and these banks that launder money are obviously in Croatia a melem with the CNB and the policy it implements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194890	Thank you very much. As you said, this law was supposed to be. This change was supposed to be in the Executive Act, you say it was not yet in order, but the fact that it was talking about money laundering, the fact that in Croatia it was legal to launder money through the largest bank, that the CNB kept it quiet, that there was no media, that it was 2.9 billion kuna money laundering, that came out through the media, so at this point when the crisis is those who launder money and support money laundering are banks in the Republic of Croatia with the help of the CNB. I think already when it comes to the executive law that we should take a measure of this crown virus to affect our citizens, there is great uncertainty and instability of people, that we should make it necessary to suspend the executions. So we should find the possibility legally, I think it would be much more productive, and these banks that launder money are obviously in Croatia a melem with the CNB and the policy it implements. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194891	Thank you very much. About the first part of the question, as you know about the system for preventing money laundering with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a financial intelligence... which collects and distributes data consisting of a whole series of other institutions, including the State's Attorney's Office and the MUP. And as for the very execution and these measures you speak in terms of the situation and the economy affected by the coronary virus, it is now at 13.00 a meeting at the Ministry of Justice in the context of the Executive Law. And as for this current law, it implements and regulates the actions that FINA is doing on orders to carry out, so it will need to be regulated within the Executive Act or by some other act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194892	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194893	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I sent a memo, regarding the money laundering to the President of the Parliament, asking the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the CNB to deliver a report to the Croatian Parliament on this situation at the Zagreb Bank and I think it should be done. And also what my colleague Bulj suggested, I think you have to react a lot faster, a lot of people are now in great fear and chills about possible performances and everything that's going on, and the government here needs to react urgently. There is great uncertainty and not enough this meeting today at the Ministry of Finance but concrete and clear measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194894	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194895	Thank you very much. Well, in general today's situation as far as this is concerned, we can freely say very extremely crisis times throughout the world, clearly that any measure that hasn't been taken today is already late tomorrow, so I believe that with all these regulations that the Government has adopted and adopted yesterday, by its measures and today and teaching days will try to contain this pandemic at the world level, with one variable that I wanted to point out is very unknown to the whole world, and that's how long it's going to last at all. Therefore, our actions and our responsible behavior in the public, and our own work can help to contain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194896	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194897	Thank you very much. Secretary of State. I am pleased to hear the information that you will discuss the performance, but I would warn only, not only this law as such but there are laws of lex specialis in which many forms are defined, so I would warn that you are also discussing the Law on OPGs where the issue of opening a protected account is listed in order to preserve the substance of production. I think now is the time to create a bigger space, too, because in this kind of danger, there will be growing cases, and no agricultural economy can survive only on the minimum resources that we can expect in future time to become a practical survival. So here I will also ask you at this meeting to pass on to the Prime Minister that he is considering a really large number of agricultural economies that will be caused by the crown of the virus and the threat that has arisen in a difficult situation. Opening so many protected accounts will not ensure the normal functioning of the system, so here is a request for you to refer to it at that meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194898	Thank you. Answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194899	Thank you very much. This is essentially what I understood as a well-intentioned statement of something that is understandable and it is clear that this will be a huge pressure on both the state budget and the economy and that we can all contribute to each other's actions to minimise it as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194900	Thank you, too. Would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Peja Grbin, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The law we are now discussing would in normal circumstances cause a whole series of criticisms that would first and foremost be referred to the fact that this law would not have been passed at all if you had made a good executive law. However, we did not make a good Implementing Law, the Implementing Law went into third reading at the end of last year and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to adopt a regulation on 3 January 2020, which incorporated certain provisions resulting from EU law into the executive system, so that we must actually pass this law today to law what the Government has done with its regulation. However, it is clear and I think that neither Mr. Secretary of State nor Mr. Secretary of State has otherwise explained that this law addresses the basic problems that exist in the executive system of the Republic of Croatia. This is simply one patch to bridge the situation because what was to be done by the Executive Law was not made. I know you're coming from the Ministry of Finance and you're not the address that can answer this question, but I still have to ask it, and that's what with the executive law that went into the third reading, and is there any hope that we're going to need to make such a law for Croatia at all? However, this is only part of the problem of performance, and I consider it my obligation, especially because of the situation in which Croatia is today to talk about problems of enforcement which may not be directly related to the concrete changes and additions that lie ahead, but are with what is the matter of this law, the matter of this law is the implementation of the executive procedure. In the government measures presented to us on Wednesday, measure 9 referred to a stand still implementation of the executive procedures for three months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this stand is still necessary but in no respect is sufficient. Because he just means that what was to be done today will be done in three months or when this situation is over and not taking into account the fact that economic opportunities resulting from a health situation will cause a whole series of other problems that we still cannot solve with this stand. The Prime Minister announced then and later that the finance minister will also try to agree with banks on how to correct the biggest problem generated by the highest performance, which is paying credit obligations. However, the solution presented to us yesterday from the banking sector is simply not good. I will remind you of a 2015 precedent, from January 2015 that was brought into a situation that was far less dramatic than this one. After the Swiss central bank fired the Swiss franc course level and after he jumped by a few dozen percentage points overnight, the government of the Republic of Croatia proposed, and the Croatian Parliament passed a law that fixed the Swiss franc course within 5 days. Such a law directly entered the Croatian Parliament into entrepreneurship freedoms, such a law directly entered into the existing contractual obligations, and such a law survived in front of all Croatian and other courts before which it was questioned. It was simply because he was reasonable in this situation and was absolutely necessary to prevent harmful consequences. Why am I talking about this? Because I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for that, should be referred to the procedure before the Croatian Parliament for a draft law that will introduce a 3 month moratorium to pay off all credit obligations in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian banks are liquid, they can endure and survive, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia only postpone payments no. Why? During the postponement of payments, interest is on the way and only the debt will increase and what you couldn't pay now won't be able to pay in 3 months. Moratorium means that there is no interest rate, no debt increase, and we will ensure that no Croatian citizen who, for some of his reasons, would be found not to enter into those who have the right to postpone the loan will be life-threatening because of the situation in which the virus corona appears today most of them are found without their own guilt. So, again, in January 2015, it was an example of how in a dramatic situation, in a dangerous situation, we can pass the law, I repeat the law restricting certain freedoms, specifically the entrepreneurial freedoms of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which has been established, which survives before the competent courts, which protects the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the consequences they themselves could not influence. What we did then with the Swiss franc course fixed, today we have to do with credit obligations and introduce a moratorium to pay off the debt. Another issue and another problem that is directly related to the implementation of financial assets, but also to all other tasks, but also to all other court proceedings, which are currently under way. The deadlines laid down by law are usually too inclusive, which means that when we talk about procedural law, and executive law is procedural law, if you miss a deadline, you lose a certain right. You may seek a return to the previous situation, but it carries one particular court procedure, waste of time, costs etc., and it is questionable how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia can afford such costs at the moment, but even more how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia can at the moment have access to a lawyer for legal protection, and then the court. The European Court of Human Rights and I spoke about it on Wednesday, but unfortunately I did not notice any reaction, the European Court of Human Rights decided on Monday to suspend the period of time in the proceedings before that court for a month. This means that the party who would have expired within the next month to appeal to that court, to address that court, will not lose his rights if he fails to do so. Of course, the court has announced that it will also monitor the situation and, if necessary, extend that deadline, the European Court of Human Rights. I have never seen such a measure before Croatian courts. The fact is that respected colleagues and colleagues and it is clear that at present, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are being denied an orderly and effective approach to the court. Part of the court doesn't work, the debates are delayed, except in Mr Plenkovic's case, but it's a completely different story, the debates are delayed, citizens can't access lawyers, some of the lawyers are in self-insulation, some are likely or will unfortunately get sick soon, citizens are also in quarantine isolation, and deadlines are running and their rights are losing. For this reason, I will repeat you were when I spoke on Wednesday and I will beg you, I will indeed ask you to convey this and personally to the Minister of Justice. I call on the Minister of Justice, but also on the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to make a comparable decision as soon as possible, such as that taken by the European Court of Human Rights and suspended the time limits in the court proceedings in the Republic of Croatia. If they believe that this is not possible by the basis of existing, valid legislation in the Republic of Croatia, although I believe that arguments could be found in both the Constitution and other regulations, then, as we passed 19 laws by emergency procedure on Wednesday and Thursday, I suggest that we do the same thing with at least the Law on Courts and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of next week. It may seem to someone that this is now of minor importance, but for all those who have lost their rights because they have missed the deadline for achieving these rights, and for example in working disputes it is 15 days for many things, the appeal in working disputes is 8 days, those who miss such deadlines will hardly be able to get their rights back. And the fact is that in times of crisis, the very rights of the weak are the first to die. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will conclude this debate with this, and I will indeed urge once again to pay attention to this subject, if this law comes, I am sure that it will also be adopted with that two-thirds majority that the Constitution provides for the adoption of measures that otherwise restrict human rights in crisis situations. And this would not limit itself, however, these rights would expand with course during the crisis, of course for a certain time after which, if necessary, we will extend those deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194902	Thank you both for your shortness and for your content. Mr. Bull asked for a break. No, he was looking for something, now he's gonna tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194903	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club, I would use these two minutes to point out once again this difficult situation in which there are and solidarity if we all call on everyone from the top of the state, all the institutions that at this point since we're talking here and the topic is the law where parts of the executive law are to make it necessary for the government to make a proposal. The justice ministry that you said the secretaries would have today a meeting on the performance and 300,000 blocked our citizens, it's at least a quarter of the people depended on these blockades, it's a million people together with families, to make the moratorium urgently, it means according to the procedure is it very important. At this point, they are threatening the executions of both farmers and workers who will lose jobs and all entrepreneurs, all who today because of not their guilt, but because of this crisis of the coronary virus, we must adopt this law urgently. That moratorium. For what? Because that's the solidarity we call upon. We all say the word solidarity, but if those 300,000 people plus these now who are at risk, plus those who are going to lose jobs, that means that at this point we have nothing to wait for, that's the tribal to do already yesterday, not tomorrow. That's why the moratorium on executive procedures, the moratorium on loans to these people and groups that are at risk, is there's no other way to get out of this. It's not people's fault this is a crisis. Of course, it is necessary to send a message here that entrepreneurs and those who hire people are not enough just to postpone their tax obligations, the cut and all other obligations, we believe that this is an urgent matter to be abolished here and I expect the government to send you serious, strong measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194904	Thank you. Mr. Panenic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194905	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club Independent Youth List I would also ask for a break to take advantage of this time when a break has already been announced from the Club of Representatives of the Most, so I would also refer to the fact that here is also a clue of these thoughts which are already speakers before me that we really expect as a Croatian Assembly here that we have a very fast package of laws that will solve this whole problem that we are talking about the most today. At least we're talking about the very proposal of this law, which is now on the agenda, but we see that the scope of the topic that will come in the future for which everyone confirms that it is relevant, confirms the need for the government to come out very quickly with a package of laws and presents it on this body. Here's another suggestion I'd like to make if my colleague Bulj agrees that we might as well give up this 10-minute break and continue the debate, so we'll be solidarity with our other colleagues on one hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194906	More? Okay. Here until 10:07 you have the opportunity to consult. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, no, no. Listen, everyone has their own responsibility, they asked for a break of 10 minutes, they got a break until 10:08. Here you go. It's the first time I've ever seen you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.07 HOURS]] Grozdana Peric will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194908	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with what my colleagues asked for a break, and that's to tell the public that exactly all these colleagues and ministers and the entire government at this point are certainly working on a series of regulations that need to be passed to make everything we voted on yesterday feasible. And as a roof law that will regulate this is precisely the Law on the General Tax and General Tax Law which all public duties and all regulations relating to the executive procedure are indeed in this, in these shades that will have to be incorporated into the rules themselves, in order to make it easier for entrepreneurs and citizens and individuals of craftsmen to do all this time, which is now under way and which no one can actually assess how long and what they will reflect. Normally, all that the ministers and the Prime Minister have said is that this is only the first round of some of the effects of the laws and regulations that are being passed because surely life will show a lot of problems and thus the legislative framework will then adapt to the needs of life. Today, in this context, we actually have the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, and we need to remember actually time that it is 3 January 2020. On the basis of legal powers, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation governing issues from its part-round, and it adopted this precisely for the very reason that, as we know as a country, we have joined the European Course Mechanism 2 and the obligation of this Government is to base measures under the Action Plan of the Republic of Croatia and to adopt certain, certain regulations or to adapt to the accession of the exactly banking union, as well as to say to EREM 2. So this law right here regulates all of this in a way in that segment relating to the implementation of the budget implementation. This respects the very provisions of our action plan and regulates those measures that we are obliged to have a regulated system, a banking system. You know that it's still in 2012 that, that certain ways and records of single accounts have been changed, and then we know that it's a system so-called the so-called system. Iban, therefore, the way we are actually working across the EU. This Regulation also applies to the prevention of money laundering where, directly by electronic means and without compensation, data are entered into that unique system and in this way, all changes can actually be monitored, and among other things, there is some kind of deviation that takes place in payment traffic. All the directives that regulated this are now being incorporated into this bill and, and the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Act is therefore more detailed. And I must also point out that these technical assumptions for the electronic exchange of letters are made possible by the FINA so that very efficient and fast communication can be made between banks and FINA, this has already been enabled so far in the system, and is also made possible in bankruptcy procedures. In the case of consumer bankruptcy, it is also proposed to deliver letters to courts and thus speed up enforcement procedures, as well as in the far line, and can be more clearly and qualityd in the process that is happening during this whole period. So I think that all of this, in very short fact, a few articles change itself, the law promotes the functioning of our system both banking and financial agencies, but it also allows the competent Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering to monitor the course of all operations and thus facilitates the whole process. So, the HDZ Club will in any case support this law and I stress once again and for the sake of the public that rules are being made and rules that will regulate already Monday will be in place in fact that every citizen, every natural and legal person, can report everything we have brought in, and that means applying for all these measures that we took yesterday, and in that sense I think that the Government is doing its job very responsibly and does not wait and waste time at any moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194909	Thank you, too. Mr. Bulj will speak on behalf of the MOST Club and the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194910	Thank you very much. The esteemed secretary with her co-worker, colleague and colleague here is this law ahead of us, a few minor changes, so the changes are mostly about money laundering so that the process is better controlled and no one can in principle be against it. Basically that's what we should have already had is the law on executive procedure is in the third reading. The laundry in the Republic of Croatia was unfortunately carried out as we know, which was in the media, and later it turned out that the truth was through the largest bank, the Zagreb Bank that operates in the Republic of Croatia, there was also the CNB kept secret for a long time, a colleague had just said that the club MOST and asked to send us a report from the CNB and from an institution that deals with the prevention of money laundering. I would briefly mention that at this point it is very important, however, the circumstances which are now and as my colleague said earlier, that we have given a number of amendments to the measures given by the Government, 63 measures, the opposition has largely accepted this, but I expect as the opposition is operational to the Government, I expect the honourable secretaries to also be operational, all to be synergy to, the effect to be a common effect, and the goal is in this health situation, i.e. in this pandemic, which has emerged in preventing the effects that will spill over on economies, and we already have effects on the economic and economic situation in all spheres, speaking from agriculture, speaking from tourism, speaking from businesses, craftsmen, all who, people who lose jobs, are insecure and therefore would be good, i.e. Well, that's desirable, that's a measure, that's a strong measure we called for yesterday, the strong measures of example were these measures to delay entrepreneurs' giving, which are necessary to the state, which is being singled out by entrepreneurs and craftsmen and farmers. We've been looking for and now we're asking not to delay it, but to remove the three obligations while the coronary virus is going on, the crisis of the coronal virus. And here we don't need to send such messages because simply citizens now feel enormous uncertainty, and especially when we mention the number of people who are, have, or are in the process of doing or being completed, or that in this situation there will be numerous of them who will be not by their own fault but by the guilt of the situation that has arisen, that they will be both completed and blocked, and this will be about a number of people. Here, she sends me a lady message that works in hospitality because she and her husband work in catering and she says my employer will pay me a salary when a man doesn't work. And now these people are in trouble, they're gonna have bills coming in, they've already had to pay, and they're just gonna go through with it. So at this point and from teleoperators who are normally ruthless in the Republic of Croatia, who have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, HT teleopers have 42% gain, while in the EU, countries where Deutsche Telecom has its own distribution, where they have 20% and do not behave exactly in the Republic of Croatia as they behave, but these pressures and uncertainty of our citizens along with this health crisis and fears where they must be isolated, self-insulated or where they do not, currently the freedoms are determined, because of the objective of preventing infection, but they are not guilty of people. Therefore all these actions that go both by work and by virtue, all who go will not be their fault, and the time limits will go both for appeals and for lawsuits and for all that is mentioned before me. This is why, for the purposes of the moratorium and for the loans to people who have not been brought into this position, there will be a number of families working both husband and wife and who will not have the opportunity to repay those obligations. And today you said you had a meeting at the Justice Department, but here they need urgent measures. The banks are liquid, the banks have money, and we can't burden these people, and leave our citizens at bay, we can't leave them at this moment where a literal war is declared, here the prime minister said that we have essentially one crisis that is literally a war against the invisible enemy, against the virus, the crown of the virus. If we are cooperative with the government, if the opposition says that we will take your measures, but these measures must be more effective and much stronger. Any measure is good. But for the safety of our citizens, both economic and economic, workers and people who are in the hospitality of both entrepreneurs and farmers, all those who now feel absolutely insecure, absolutely insecure. As a result of this decommissioning, the moratorium is free, all of this caused by the coronary virus must be urgently strong measures of sweetness. We've been here countless times, here he was recently, and he was a colleague of the Living Wall Club, also their executive law, he was our executive law, our club, there were many, you didn't accept. The Amo word you didn't accept had a different direction. We had your law that went in two readings, so you agreed to go into the third reading, the third reading was gone. Everything is understandable, and we don't have to get along at all. But at this point, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those who lost their jobs today, entrepreneurs cannot pay them, and we do not have strong measures. There can be no delay in something, and entrepreneurs are in fear, those who hire, and workers will stay on the road. Therefore, we must have a much, much stronger measure and it is a key message. It is good to discuss this law, the parliament must continue to work and the Most will give a certain, the MOST Club will make certain proposals regarding all these problems, but I believe the government can do so. And that's basically what the government wants. But delaying the obligations of entrepreneurs at this point, not ending obligations, and not their fault, I don't see the meaning of that message, is it simply this way that people don't feel, we see the reactions of our entrepreneurs and workers in all the dams and farmers. Also, we need to get a lot more serious not only of this, catch this problem, a little bit off topic, that the simple times of farmers and food production, that I mentioned, is also very important. Now come the crops. If people don't get certain support that's much stronger and the removal of certain liabilities from land rentals to I don't know what, then those people will be in trouble too. Instead of opening our eyes on this now and saying that these were all wrong policies, and executive procedures are wrong policies, we have 300,000 blocked, farmers are not divided agricultural land, an emergency trial, I've given the law in the procedure, to find a model i.e. I've suggested a model to distribute 400,000 hectares of land owned by the state urgently, and we have 800,000 hectares of this unprocessed land. We're 2nd. Since the law was passed, only 11,000 hectares of agricultural land have been divided. So we have some problems. This part I'm talking about right now is unrelated, but now it's basically all connected when we have this crisis. Everything simple, all the measures we bring must be much more powerful and that people will breathe, that simply from these fears, from infection, from isolation, from all the measures we have, which the headquarters requires, I believe that, the Republic of Croatia will win, I know the Republic of Croatia will beat this virus, the Republic of Croatia has been in difficult situations. But what stays behind stays as long as we have the unemployed, and here is the most important working place. Every job here is the most important. And that's why I'm calling you one more time. Stop the i.e. the moratorium to be applied and not delayed, but the suspensions to entrepreneurs and craftsmen and farmers they have. These are strong measures if none of the Croatian citizens are to blame for this emerging situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194911	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Damjan Vucelic will speak in front of the Living Wall's Club and let's change Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194912	... Secretary of State, the respected citizens who listen to us today. [[Speaker not enabled]] The measures of this government aren't enough and they're soft. Farmers in self-insulation can't get into the field. Local self-government units should put the public works into circulation, feed the cattle, transport the fertilisers, water the plants, isolate the fields. Now I'm going to read you something: "Respectful Vlado, a delay in taxes and contributions is a palitative one because our incomes are not delayed but lost." These are the words of an entrepreneur who has said everything to this. At the moment of the engulfment of the potentially biggest crisis in the Republic of Croatia and in health, but also the economic government unreservedly credits the banking and financial elite, and treats its citizens as non-essential and as a consumer element. All recent CNB moves are only helping the financial sector, and real for them as if it does not exist. That's how it is with defense courses that use banks the most and import lobbys. That's right with re-ops, so is the direct purchase of government bonds owned by funds. In the wake of the crisis, Plenkovic is pushing around a non-essential executive procedure as a priority and as a by, and by emergency procedure, all to continue the harmful introduction of the EUR. The clock is ticking, and the introduction of the EUR is the priority of this Plenkovic government, while the economy is expecting us to crash in all segments. At the moment the Living Wall requests a delay in the executions of accounts due to the new crisis, a long planned project of subjugation of the state of Croatia continues, at a time when citizens should be first. The crucial fact is that Plenkovic intends to reject the executive proposal of the Living Wall while he is stuck on the 3rd reading and will not be adopted in time. The European Central Bank and the CNB's agreement on the exchange rate mechanism is being suspended and the euro is being put into effect. It is therefore necessary to include these measures urgently in some other law, and the Law on the implementation of an enforcement over money that contains the word enforcement in its name is closest to that. They're promoting more words from that businessman from the beginning of the speech, a respected government postponing taxes, and it's a palitative contribution because our incomes aren't delayed, but they're lost, there's actually the logic of everything. At the same time, all the amendments to the Living Wall aimed not to delay but to permanently eliminate losses in the economy so that our economies, but our citizens too, have a chance of survival after the virus has passed. The government did not do well, burning issues such as the use of foreign reserves and primary money emissions to help workers and entrepreneurs, the moratorium on interest-free loans, the problem of tenants with paying rents, stopping a huge wave of cancellations, producing their own food and buying food from domestic suppliers for commodity reserves, all these issues remained unaccounted for. The requesting agencies avoid controlling, avoiding banning them, they do not depend on public opinion as much as the commercial banks and it is only a matter of whether they will be eligible for payments until the end of the crisis. If that happens, they're going to hit our citizens ruthlessly after the virus does its part. And who will bear the burden of the crisis? Who's going to be in the plus, and who's going to be in the minus? Don't think that banks will draw a thicker end, they've already won a repo operation last week at the disposal of 5 billion kuna at 0.25% interest, and during that time the hosts have already started closing the cafes and putting the keys in locks and started firing workers. Cancellations are scheduled for 40,000 workers and only in catering. Our people need help, and the banks need to be taken. Banks need to bear the same burden of crisis. "Lav" bar? It was located three metres from the Parliament on the Stone Gate that had only 300 kuna daily traffic before the crisis closed. Did you ask the employees at that bar how they were doing? This is a systemic crisis and we need system solutions, and we from the Living Wall have offered them and put them in the process. By introducing the euro, Croatia is losing all tools to get out of the economic crisis. I don't have a course policy because we don't have our own currencies, we don't have the right to control the economic interest rate, and that's the very price of money in the country. All this will be dictated by the European Central Bank in Frankfurt in the rhythm of the German economy, not by Croatia, Greece or Malta. We will not be able to get out of the economic crisis alone because all levers of power are committed to Frankfurt, we remain only to pray for the grace of Germany and hope that we will not lose, say, 25% of the economy as Greece. The country and its citizens have endured 30 years of HDZ authorities based on a beautiful country and tourism. The virus shut down the HDZ pipe and their robbery of Croatia, but it also led us into a position to examine the direction and the way our country is being led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194913	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomislav Saucha will speak in front of the Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. I know that in principle this kind of speech is not the point of replicating it, but I have to say that this virus did not turn back on the HDZ pipe, but it turned off the tentacle of Croatia because if we are going to have, and we are going to have problems with the tourist season, we don't have to suspect it at all, I think we're going to feel it absolutely everyone in this country. And I think we need to do everything we can and that the government is doing everything it can and it's finally shown up when we voted yesterday this package of measures that have been almost unanimous in order to facilitate all economic operators in all sectors of the economy and that we will certainly have to focus on tourism in particular to save ourselves if anything more can be saved from this tourist season because that tap again I say is not HDZ's pie, I don't know it's not SDP's tap, it's not your tap, it's not my tap, it's something that this country lives from. And we've invested a lot in this sector and unfortunately here's the situation that's actually... and now we see how vulnerable we really are. Today, it is a normal thing to at least discuss in these circumstances what is on the agenda, and this law is objectively seen when it is viewed on the technical side by a dry-board technical law that actually comes down to compliance with EU regulations and the activities prescribed by the RS Action Plan to join the European exchange rate mechanism and the banking union and... the harmonisation of that law with the European Parliament and Council Directive on the prevention of the use of financial resources for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. As my colleague Grbin said, I agree with him that this is actually one, and so said the secretary of state, in fact one patch of law that needs to help us bridge that period until a new whole and better law of conduct is passed. But okay, as soon as we have to do that, we have to vote and that's one of the reasons why in times of crisis like this, it's good that Parliament is working too, and this one I think is sending a good message that regardless of the emerging situation, the institutions of this country continue to work. And that's why we're here today and that's why we're talking about this topic here. What this law is about is that it's more or less all listed by Mr. Secretary of State, I don't like it, I mean this is a topic that I don't know too much about and I don't think it's necessary to repeat the words here, to read in principle from the preparation of the law in fact that Mr. Secretary of State already said. I think it's good that this will give new mechanisms and will actually help to prevent money laundering in their further activities and efforts. And I think that this one should take advantage of just this moment he would like to stress that he would like to compliment the bank on the introduction of stand still. suspend all measures of forced collection against all debtors for a period of 3 months and this is one of the 63 measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist the economy that has taken place following this crisis caused by the Covid-19 virus. We believe that this law is of quality and that the amendments and additions that are here by the proposal of the law are of quality and therefore the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194915	Thank you, too. Mr. Rechimer Varda will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194916	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I don't normally comment on the text of the law by assuming that as far as the audiences are concerned, we read it and we know what it says, and the secretary of state himself, and even my colleague Peric went through the text of this, I would say the technical proposal to amend and supplement the law. But what you would, which you would only draw attention to. We have been waiting a long time for the Executive Law and I think we should send a message to the Government that, as a proponent, this entire Executive Law comes as soon as possible to the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, we support exactly because this is also a supplement to this government regulation, these changes that are necessary to prevent the use of the financial system in order to launder money or finance terrorism. And the third sentence personally joins the proposal of a respected colleague of the coat of arms, regardless of which we have not formally declared as a state of emergency, but it is in fact there and it is precisely the law to establish a moratorium, and especially the procedures conducted by the judicial authorities. The truth God, we're through these 19 laws that we passed yesterday, and as some colleague, as if we didn't bring anything yesterday out, so let's just say bug about everything and everything, we should still formalize this moratorium with the judicial authorities specifically, it's only a recommendation, so far it's only a recommendation that this one is suspended unless the children are protected by these rights of workers and criminal proceedings. We should go to this moratorium law, so I think you've been paying attention to the state secretary's proposals, so I'd like to ask you to pass it on to the government and the competent ministers. As for this proposal, amending and supplementing the law, the Labour Party Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194917	Thank you very much, Mr. Varda, and you understand correctly we'll be the last to stop working, but this doesn't mean that we don't have to act, let's not change some form of misbehaving that we had before we made it. Thank you very much. And now it's Mr Panenic's turn, Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194918	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the bill of law that you have delivered today for the debate, I believe, in substance, that all colleagues will welcome it and as such support it because at the end of the day it is what we have, in a way we have always supported, in practice everything that comes in this direction, especially in the anti-corruption body of the European Commission, somehow they are always faster than we are, and we would always like to be leaders of such certain things in view of the numerous cases that we have, and also this one about money laundering, we had a recent event with the Zagreb Bank which once again instilled mistrust in our banking system. What's about the law itself, I don't think I'm going to comment on it, so let's just cut back on what we're putting out here, but I'd definitely like to talk about the problems that are related to the law and which should be considered in future measures. What is very important, and this is that when the performance comes into effect that we have our many citizens who have a problem with coming to their funds and they open protected accounts, however, these funds can exclusively be used as cash funds if they come into their own bank's business and there is then a special problem for those who are in self-insulation so that they can reach their own funds and even those that are legally and allowed to achieve it. Well, here's a suggestion for a hasty measure. There has been a lot of talk about a "stand still" arrangement with business banks, which is what we welcome in front of the government, but somehow it's all about what we're not going to run, but we're talking about now and what's been launched, and especially about cases where the claims from the business banks have moved to the Agency for the collection of claims, so here's what I'd like to ask that this is actually a general agreement at the level of society and all the entities operating in charge that understanding for this moment is perhaps more important than achieving a short-term business goal. So the banks, they have this elegant opportunity to present to the public what they might be doing for good, on the other hand, when such a claim is being sold to the agency, they have taken off their responsibility, but we still have the same problem, especially to the citizens who are in this situation. Of course, speaking of the criteria by which any amendments to the law can be carried out have facilitated the possibility of advocacy. But what remains, and that's when we have a public body and it thinks it can't be charged, that's where we should think about models, actually new ones, about facilitating criteria that will allow for faster and simpler debt write-offs, primarily I mean a number of taxes that are not chargeable over a long time. We have irrevocable claims, so based on them we have performances, so we have citizens who can't go back to their resources or they can do it again at risk, so there should be, that's actually one proposal according to the legislator, and also according to the state audit that often makes observations if absolutely all the collection measures have not been implemented, and even when it's absolutely evident that there's no point in launching, but I'm saying that this is a proposal to make it possible primarily at local levels, I would say the state level, that it can have more freedom in writing, especially in this particular in a special situation. And the state should first have an understanding of the possibility of a write-off. Yes, and recently the state of Danko Končar wrote off 240 million kunas of debt. If it means only once a decision has been written off 240 million kunas of debt to Brodotrogir then we should have both understanding and width for those small people and for those who have understanding, but because of the legal obstacles I cannot do so, so here on behalf of the club we will give support to this bill, and since then, we have spent time through breaks, so here I leave this time for the chairman to continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194919	Thank you very much, Mr. Pananich. And now Mr. Davor Vlaovic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194920	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of monetary claims, monetary means, it should be said that it is the implementation of the European Directives and the continuation of the road and the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's action plan for the entry into the banking union, the introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia and the prevention of rights, the laundering of money in the financial sector, and above all in the banking sector and the Republic of Croatia, and that it is only a patching up because it has not been adopted by a complete new Executive Act, and it is necessary for the public to reiterate that it has gone into third reading, which is good that it has gone into third reading and we expect it to be here again in the debate in HS because it has not been good for the believer, for the one who is looking for it, and it has not been good for the completed or blocked, and with a series of remarks that we are from the opposition, and even from the position of the law, it is good that it is not to be read, but to put it in the latter, to be read, but to be correct. Because the key question is how many people in the Republic of Croatia today, our fellow citizens, are blocked, how they live, are they going to buy some stock today, but unfortunately because they don't have income they're even in a difficult situation. And it is also an important question of how long it will be in 30 days in the Republic of Croatia of blocked citizens. Many have lost their jobs in the meantime, and on HZZ, a few days ago, it was announced that 500 were newly registered as unemployed. Many of them, even because of their short work, work on certain or some other species, have no right to that compensation from the HZZ and will surely find themselves in this group that will not be able to comply with their domestic obligations and will likely be blocked. So, we at the HSS Club are asking for an immediate suspension of all performances and conjectures. This has been announced in a certain way, but I think that measures should also be defined more concretely and by the rules. And I'm sure it's not enough just to postpone the payment of the liabilities, because we're only going to make that problem go away in three months, and eventually we're going to increase it even further. And I'm sure you need to specifically define that moratorium on the credit payoff so that no interest goes to it. Today's meeting is due to be resolved with banks in the ministry, it has been announced, but citizens expect that if a moratorium is already being done, then no interest is being made because they will have nothing to pay for it. Because in this case we do, we need this law as a tool to the Government and the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration to implement measures and action plan but we must not protect banks but citizens because banks have capital anyway, each year they make a huge profit in the Republic of Croatia, which is outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is their turn to return something to those citizens, to our people who are in trouble and not their own fault. The problem has already been mentioned here by people who are blocked, who have those protected accounts, who can't get to their money because they have to go to their bank's office and they need to do it now. There are technical models, let's say here's a proposal, a special card for such citizens that they can raise money on an ATM from that protected account because otherwise he can't get cash, especially if in a self-exposure he's going to, so I'm sure people need to get together. And when it comes to blockeds, it is certainly among them, and we know that there are a number of farmers, OPGs, crafts, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and in the context of the final understanding in Croatia that we must have food production if we see through the closure of borders that and we cannot introduce certain products because there are no products on the market because each country is now finally thinking about its citizens about the diet of its population and that is their priority, it must be priority and the Republic of Croatia, our Ministry of Agriculture and this spring seed must be allowed for everyone to shine every hectare of state and private agricultural land in Croatia. The prerequisite for this is the payment of direct payments incentives, which is why I am saying that all associations have requested that this be until 15.4. this year and it is certainly important to point out that these direct payments and support must not be subject to enforcement. Of course, this part of the delay in the payment of leases and concessions should be more precisely defined on agricultural land because the stay of 90 days is not in line with the existing contracts where the lease contracts say it should be paid by 30.6 this year and for the concession by the end of the year. So the proposal and the rules should go beyond that deadline, but the proposal is for the HSS not to charge either rent or concession in 2020 to support food production in the Republic of Croatia and help our farmers. Also, when it comes to this overall financial potential of the Republic of Croatia, 19 billion euros are mentioned in the CNB, and we need to target it through HBOR, not through business banks to our wood industry, to our agriculture, to our tourism sector and service activities, design models and urgently find ways to help them preserve jobs, improve liquidity and enable further development and production, as well as service activities. And here is the final connection to this bill, with the possibility that, through the follow-up of the Action Plan on Money Laundering, I think those who are in Zagreb Bank are certainly not the only ones, that this should continue to be followed and that this law will be a good tool, but that it cannot remain only on the resignations of the head of some branch or director of a particular sector, but that it must also be criminal responsibilities as an example that no one in the Republic can use money laundering mechanisms and that we must certainly have a stable financial situation. We are already in a certain way part of the euro banking union because most banks operating in the Republic of Croatia in foreign ownership, but of course these tools will also contribute to making one financial stability and security and surely we need to enable Croatian citizens to have jobs in Croatia, to earn personal income from which they will be able to live and that personal income can be used in Croatia by buying Croatian products, that is the key. We repeat again, buy Croatian, buy from domestic producers and try to enable all of our citizens to buy both a kilo of meat and chicken and oil and sugar today. Let's not get into a situation where one of them has a full cart from the shopping chains, and the others don't even have to eat. Thank you. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194921	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics Club. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194922	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia again told the untrue Croatian citizens as then it was about the Executive Law, so they said there will be no execution of the only real estate. However, the only real estate activities are well-realized in certain situations. It cannot, of course, be prescribed that there is no enforcement of the only real estate in all situations, but then the government must also not say in the announcements of new legal solutions that there will be no enforcement of the only real estate. That's a lie. He's got the only real estate. Now a new lie has been told that there will be no execution and dejection. Where is it prescribed? Where is it prescribed that there will be no execution? I didn't find it. Yesterday the economy minister tells people from the banks that they're his colleagues, people from societies who are thieves. I'm not gonna say that thieves are people who work in banks, but thieves are banks. And the people who work in these bank thieves are our minister of the economy of colleagues. I propose concrete measures in art. 1. this law which should now be passed and these measures are concrete measures which are feasible, which are realistic and which are rational at this time. What am I proposing? I suggest you do it. 1. add three more paragraphs, one item would be permanent because it refers to one permanent situation and the other two items would be temporary because they refer to a situation relating to a virosis that exists throughout the world. So I will read those provisions that I propose to add to the paragraph in Article 1. The law on the implementation of the law on financial assets. Article 2 of the Executive Director who has sued the credit institution for unfair contractual provisions in the loan contract shall have the right to request a court to postpone the implementation of the cash until the judicial procedure which has been initiated has been legally completed and the court must, in that case, decide to postpone the application until the court proceedings have been completed. It is a lasting measure that I propose, which is realistic, which is necessary because there is a collective verdict in the case of Franak which has been ruled that 125,000 people have the right to claim compensation because banks have robbed them by unfair contractual provisions and then if such a citizen who has contracted such loans has entered into problems precisely because of such an unfair loan, so the bank is now executing it, on its request, a court request should allow such a citizen, such a consumer, not to be executed until the court proceedings are completed when the exact state of debt is determined. Because the balance of debt in such a loan that is unfair is not true, it must be settled on a court basis. It is a lasting measure, it has nothing to do with this virosis, although it has to do with it, because it would help people and in this context, but it is a measure that has nothing to do with the virosis but a link to a concrete factual situation in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia where the issue of unfair loans has been resolved, but it is settled only by the court, it is now up to the Government to use the sword, to end the business of Croatian banks unfairly and to allow consumers to breathe easier until they get their money in courts. The second measure I propose, paragraph 3 which I propose to add to the law in Article 1, reads, each consumer performer shall have the right to request a delay in the implementation until 1 July 2020, and the perpetrator shall, on the basis of the application for a delay in the application for an application for an application for an application for an application for an application for an application for a stay and shall not be subject to a tight interest on the principal of the debt. This is a measure relating to the specific situation in which we are. We can't tell the citizens it won't be a performance unless we prescribe it. Now it's an opportunity to prescribe it in this law, maybe it's not the right place, but let the government find the right place to put this provision. I'm not asking that my provision enters the law let the government prescribe the right provision in the right place, in the right way, with the right legal terms. If the government accepts such a measure as I suggest she will write it right, it's no problem at all. The measure is necessary, the measure is necessary and the measure must be taken so that citizens can breathe during this virus that will destroy them otherwise. We can't leave them for mercy and mercy above all to credit institutions that do business unfairly. And the last measure I propose is that from the entry into force of this law to 1 July 2020 consumers will not be charged with tight interest on the main debt. So, absolutely abolish the tight interest for the next 3 months, and then if the problem continues, it can be considered to continue. We are now going to solve the situation for 3 months so that every perpetrator can request a cease-fire until this troubled situation is over, or by 1 July, we are going to make it possible not to charge heavy interest until this situation is over. Let's not keep taking care of banks that are full of money, that have no money or where to invest and allow them to keep making money at a time when no one can make money. That's what we gave them during the recession, if we're going to do it again. I repeat, banks used unfair contract provisions to rob Croatian citizens of 20 billion kuna. The Croatian government has had the opportunity all these years to make it possible for people to get their money out of court. The government didn't want it, but let's at least now in this situation as something the government has done. Well, we can't say that our colleagues are people from society who robbed Croatian citizens, we can't say that they're our colleagues, they're not our colleagues, they're our enemies, they're financial occupiers, financial occupiers rob Croatian citizens. The government of the Republic of Croatia is kind enough to see it. I have to say one more thing in 2003 the banks had 17 billion kuna capital, they had 10 billion kuna liquidity, 2019 banks have 59 billion kuna capital and they have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is a liquidity surplus, which means that only 10 billion kuna is reserved for the liabilities that banks have or will have, among other things, for those obligations arising from the litigation that they have started. While 34 billion kuna banks have liquidity that can work with them whatever they want. I can share them with my owners after all, if that's what they want because it's their money. And we won't order anything from these banks. The CNB allowed them to steal on interest by keeping a notice on their website that it was allowed to negotiate an interest rate, an interest rate that changes the bank's decision and that notice on the CNB website stood until 2014 until a final court ruling on the Franak case, and the Franak Association warned both the CNB and the Government and no one. It was only in early 2014 that the interest rate was reduced to a certain fixed amount temporarily while the appreciation of the franc continues today. It was the first measure, the second measure was the freezing course, the third measure was the conversion, so all these measures that were implemented were evidence that we could do it. You're afraid you can do this arbitration in Washington? So let the banks go to arbitration again for this which will now be three months, let them go, let them go. But remember one thing, understand one thing, the EU court has said clearly and unequivocally, arbitration is contrary to EU law. What does that mean in other words? Despite the fact that banks are leading arbitration in Washington, they will not be able to charge a single lip in the Republic of Croatia or anywhere else in the EU if we do not, because the EU court said they have no right to conduct an arbitration procedure between themselves, it is the opposite of EU law and therefore the banks have gone to Washington to seek arbitration because they cannot do so here, it is not possible here. I don't trust the arbitration center in Washington because I think it's the lobby center of the bank. He only cares about banks, he cares about EU law. And EU law said through the EU court that all loans with the CHF currency clause are worthless, all of them. The EU court has said that they are not only harmful in the event that the consumer is in a situation that is harmful to him. So if the nullity of a contract where each party has to return everything that the consumer has received came into some situation that he is now in an even worse situation than that the contract is worthless. With us there is no such situation, with us all these loans have already been paid off and those who have been paid off before and those who pay off have already been paid off. Therefore, all contracts with the CHF currency clause in Croatia are worthless, all of them. How long are we going to let banks run around the Republic of Croatia, as long as we allow financial occupation, as long as we speak to colleagues from such societies as long as it lasts? Maybe now is the time to finally tell them you won't do it anymore, you won't do it anymore. It has been decided that you have done what is wrong, it has been ruled that what you have done is unfair, stop your actions. Stop being a favor to the thieves, stop it. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to accept these proposals that I have made, to pass the law on the agenda as soon as possible, to be published in the National Journal and then to implement these measures as soon as possible. If you don't, then you're equal to the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194923	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr Branko HRg's turn outside the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a rule, I wasn't going to answer for the debate, but I was encouraged by some discussions before which were under this law which, as far as I'm concerned, is a law that needs to be helped to prevent money laundering. So any law that helps prevent money laundering should absolutely be supported by us as a club and in this form we also support it. It is unfortunate that politicians do not have measures in the end. Yesterday and today we read in the media, in the portal headlines, there is no execution and action at the time of the crisis, it is written by the media. Today, the day after we unanimously voted on a package of measures that the government very quickly proposed in a very short time we continue to spread fear. I'm not sure after this debate today, I'm not sure whether it's good for the Parliament to continue working this way at a time of crisis. We should be the ones sending support messages, support messages, not fear messages. We should be the ones who forget the party colors together now and support those whom the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, believe at the moment, and that is the National Headquarters, that is the Government. We have announcements from the prime minister and the finance minister that new steps are already being considered to help citizens, how to help entrepreneurs, so let's not spread fear. Let us trust, let us forget briefly our political points, our points, let us all stand together behind those who manage this crisis in the country and try to send message of encouragement to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194925	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to refer to what my colleague Hrg said right away. So exactly the opposite, I think it's crucial that the Parliament continue with its work that citizens have the opportunity to hear, send representatives a message to say at the moment that a lot of our fellow citizens are at home, not working, they lost their job that the simple state works and take care of them. Mr. Hrg, you don't think you should think that now we should end everything to remain just a situation so that no one but a few people can decide our fates. On the contrary, we all need to get involved and we all need to make a contribution. And if some things are going wrong, we need to criticise them not on purpose, but say, let's change that, let's do something different so that our fellow citizens, our whole country, get out of this crisis as easily as possible. It is absolutely necessary for the Parliament to continue to work, it is absolutely necessary for citizens to report to the MPs with everything that bothers them in order to try to solve it in public space with suggestions, suggestions as we have done so far. Yesterday in the City Assembly, the SDP submitted an amendment to release instead of 30%, 100% of the public fees of entrepreneurs who felt the problem of operating during the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Well, isn't that a contribution, and isn't that an opportunity to help and argue and that the proposal of the executive government, in this case the mayor, but tomorrow the prime minister and minister, and so you can't say that it's being corrected, so you can't say and well, we have Minister Maric and Minister Plenkovic, they'll certainly do everything great, opposition or any of the citizens of the Republic wouldn't have the opportunity to suggest anything, exactly the opposite, we all have to get involved in this. Yesterday we showed in the City Assembly that we can make a proposal, that the position in the City Assembly accepted, not the mayor, but HDZ supported the proposal and yesterday we adopted measures in the Croatian Parliament, we will continue to propose new measures. My colleague Grbin has said here what we will do about the executive proceedings, along with the proceedings at the Croatian courts, you will see more proposals from the opposition in the coming days, don't call and don't ask for the exclusion that only one part of society is involved, in this we all, we have to help everyone here, we have to represent our citizens and I think, it's extremely important that we are approachable here, although in a slightly smaller number than what was in the past days but it doesn't matter, we will agree, we will work within the clubs as long as we can and we will vote and we will work for our citizens and what is particularly important, and I call on all the citizens of the Republic to report if they have a problem and in the SDP Club of Representatives, we will be very happy to talk about their problems here. Without any evil, without any desire to criticize anyone, only with the desire to get out of this as soon as possible and only with the desire to help constructive proposals to the Croatian government but most importantly Croatian citizens. To our citizens to get out of this as painlessly as possible. And on this side of my colleague and colleague, when we talk about this law, when we talk about the performance, when we talk about what needs to be done at this time, I absolutely agree with my colleague, Alexic, it is necessary to allow citizens to be able to stop the work that I am pressuring them during this situation because they cannot be adequately dealt with, neither can I repay them nor can they protect themselves with legal medicines, nor can they think further in this situation. At this point, the next three months. We must devote ourselves to one and the most important enemy, which is a disease that is spreading to the Republic of Croatia. That's what we need to deal with most, what we need to concentrate on, and absolutely the performance needs to be stopped. On the other hand, as far as the loan is concerned, I think the message they gave yesterday from the Croatian Banking Association is not enough, so it means you have the opportunity to prove to the bank that you have found yourself affected by this situation. Well, there are no citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have not found themselves in this situation. It is normal for people who have the opportunity to continue to recover their obligations, and this should not lead to questions at all, but that our people who have lost their jobs, who are thinking tomorrow about stopping their economic problems, that they must now prove to Croatian banks that they are affected by the coronary virus or by the situation around the crown of the virus, that they have to prove certain things, for me it is not acceptable. For me, it is necessary at this point to declare that every citizen of our country, if he considers it necessary, may require a moratorium on a loan for the next 3 months. He could require a moratorium on loan and the banks would have to provide him with it. If it is estimated to cause this, I do not know what kind of market disturbance, the Croatian banks announced yesterday in their statement that they will not be lending new loans and that there will be very likely fewer of these loans, but if this causes a particular problem on the market, I call on the CNB and the Governor of the CNB to sit with the banks and to agree that the entire financial market would not accidentally come into a particular liquidity problem, although I doubt that it would, in that case, come about, that one part of our fellow citizens for the next 3 months. Not to pay the wars but to be on the moratorium or to have their obligations standing at the moment. It's something that I think the government should have already done, the measures we took yesterday are just a drop in the sea, many measures, we're already late to adopt, many measures we'll have to bring immediately next week, yesterday I heard a statement from the economy minister saying that there will be savings in the public sector as well. Well, it's natural that when this crisis comes, when tens of thousands of our fellow citizens are left without a job, when the next hundred thousand will remain on the minimal that the state will pay, so it's normal that the whole state has to realize that it's only important now to reduce all unnecessary costs or reduce all costs that we can reduce and, on the other hand, try to help us survive all of our society together, the economy and work normally tomorrow. So once again I will say, in the city of Zagreb, there is no need to finish the cable, but small and medium entrepreneurs and craftsmen must be helped. In the country, too, investments should stop if, without any damage, they can extend, determine some roads, bypasses, rotors, all financial resources should be directed to fight the virus and to protect standards or survival, no specific standard, survival of our society and our citizens, that is what the Republic of Croatia must do at the moment and what any responsible government would do and I hope that the Croatian government will do as well. So, I'm not calling for that to happen, but on the contrary, I want it to happen, I'm going to do everything to make it happen, I'm going to help if it should happen in any form of engagement, and I'm sure every one of the MPs in HS wants it to get more and more painlessly what's happened to us to pass. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, let's focus on what's important, can't be that there's no money for tests, can't be that there's no money for health material, the whole economy has to be directed towards it, according to food products, according to health materials, we all need to see what we need to do to make the state ready or more ready for this fight. And that's why I call you all here again, let's also make a contribution, let's not call for an end to the work of the institutions because at this point Croatian citizens are looking for one foothold, and their country must be a foothold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194927	Don't be afraid, Mr. Maras, some of us were sitting here when they bombed Zagreb, and you were in primary school. e.g. I am. [[Intruder: I'm not]] And some other maybe. [[We're not all.]] [[I wasn't either.]] Okay, but you've got a few replicas, so now you're going to be able to answer this, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194928	Thank you very much. I don't think the council should stop working, I just said I wasn't sure if it was good to send these messages. It might be good in this crisis situation if there's no direct transmission, so the assembly works. As for both the prime minister and the headquarters, the prime minister called on all the presidents of the assembly representatives' clubs on two occasions in preparation for all of this and consulted on all the measures that were coming. He announced that he would continue to do so. So no one makes their own decisions, we're all involved, but my call is let's not spread fear and panic from here for the sake of petty political interests and doing what we don't need right now, we have to send people messages of trust in the system, into the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194929	Mr. Gordan Maras, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194930	Mr. Hrg, you are completely wrong about the part of public availability and, and, and, and informing Croatian citizens. Why do Croatian citizens have maximum confidence in people who deal with this problem? Because every day they report to them publicly and openly about things that happen, and you would shut down public space. Mr. Hrg, don't, don't, please don't make an impression that, yes, that anyone here in HS or in the Croatian public space wants anything other than that this ends as soon as possible and that our citizens have as little consequences as possible. On that side of closing public space is just counterproductive. People have to trust and they have to be able to say something through someone. You can't stop the voice of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194931	Thank you, too. There is now, now Mr. Vlaovic is in line with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194932	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you are right when you say that HS should continue to work because that is how we show one seriousness, we show that we are together with everyone who is doing a good job at the moment, and above all our public health workers, all of us in medical centres, hospitals, all our officers and customs officers and everyone in the shops, everyone at the registers, and we need to thank them again and congratulate them. But we also want to make a contribution to the fact that these measures that are proposed as a recovery or problem of losses in the economy can be fixed and we need to fix and that citizens who report to us every day that they have not recognised themselves in these measures, that they will be even worse, through us here they say in public that their measures are better, faster and more concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194933	Comrade Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194934	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaovic, absolutely, is here yesterday or any day that, which, which happens, some problem about him needs to be discussed. Yesterday, police officers asked the minister, the Police Union to pay more attention because they're doing a huge job, directly in contact with the citizens, they're all exposed. Today I was contacted by people who work in the press and said most of the jobs, the retail trade shifts to kiosks or, to places where people have huge frustration. So, I'm appealing here to all employers, whether it's a shopping mall that no longer works, but shops in malls like large food distributors, take care of the safety of your employees, make sure that cashiers have protection equipment at their jobs, and, cashiers or cashiers. These people have hundreds and thousands of contacts a day, take care of your employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194935	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194936	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out one regrettable thought, which is that banks in this crisis are actually not giving up anything. Banks will charge interest for the entire duration of this extraordinary situation, and this situation will not last a month or two months, but also longer than 3 months and what will happen? People's debt will be accumulated, their incomes will be short, and then it'll all fall down on their heads. What I want to say to the Croatian people is that banks are his enemies and will now understand the truthfulness of my words about not being able to return. They can't be returned by the state, they won't be returned by companies or individuals or citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194937	Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194938	Thank you very much. I appeal to that and believe that in the end most people living in our country will also understand the messages we have sent from here, which are from citizens at the end of the message we heard in public space and from the president of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic, yesterday and from the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is a common problem, here we all have to gather together to solve it, I believe all business entities and banks will understand it. This message I heard yesterday in public space from the banks isn't enough. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Banks Association, this is not enough what you said, we expect more concrete measures and decisions, primarily we expect not to ask citizens to prove what is obvious, which is that this crisis affects everything. So I believe that as a society, we will manage to fight together to have as little damage as possible from this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194939	Mr. Alexic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194940	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague Maras if you believe that, in fact, an emergency team of economists, lawyers from the ranks of entrepreneurs and citizens should now be assembled and a new law should be put in place to complete the package of measures needed in this virulent situation, where the rights of people who are in trouble and the rights of those who are in trouble because of the new situation will only become a problem. There's a lot of people who have been sollar, but they'll stop being solvable. The situation should be fully checked and finally prevented that at a time of crisis someone earns without any work simply because he can make a living. It is time for everyone to bear the burden of this crisis, above all, the banks that are full of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194941	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194942	Thank you very much. I absolutely believe that even if we have entered something under-prepared, and that is this economic set of measures. I think that in Croatia and in the professional public and among entrepreneurs, this finding is accepted, and these measures are not enough that we brought yesterday and we expect everyone to take new measures that the government will take to make the crisis more economically effective. So, at this point, I'm not talking and I'm not complaining because the time has passed, so we have to see what we're going to do next week and we can't step down from it and I expect the Croatian government to complete these measures next week and make some new ones. As for the banks, I said once again, it is not enough to ask for proof, I think at this point everyone who needs to extend the loans must be able to prolong them without special procedures, without special costs, at 3 months must be made stand still and on that side to Croatian citizens to meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194943	Mrs. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194944	Comrade Maras, you're absolutely right, so what's most important is that this crisis must not be an excuse for censorship. This applies equally to politics if it applies to the media, therefore to timely information, we must not actually allow decisions in this health crisis and the economic crisis which unfortunately comes to us after this health crisis or in parallel to the good part with it, so that these decisions are made untransparently and that we do not have the right as citizens and citizens to influence them. We supported this first set of measures yesterday, pointing out that it is not enough, so that in many cases they are too late and that they are in fact largely not related to the preservation of employment and the preservation of jobs and the care of those who are most endangered, and these are workers and workers especially in these service activities. I hope this crisis and opportunity are as popular as it is in those self-help manuals and that we will be ours. The economy then from rent colleague Maras to turn hopefully into production. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194945	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194946	Well, it's especially important, as you yourself said, that people are informed, that they have the availability of all possible information and expertise and what is happening on the ground and the thinking of certain people or interest organisations within society. We're asking people, and I think it's right that the more they stay at home, the more they don't expose themselves and others without a direct need shouldn't come out of the apartment, out of the house. Please stay in the house, stay in your apartment, protect yourself and your family members, especially the elderly and people who have chronic diseases. And when I ask that, then it's normal for us to allow people to have every possible information. This is a time when we provide people with a sense of security and a sense that ultimately we all work together to solve this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194947	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, now it's time to write, it's a mistake, colleague Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194948	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my duty to tell my people the truth, and I have done it all this time, so I have been defiled, attacked and mocked by the media. The media that is under the control of banks and you will notice that no medium is talking about how banks should at this point stop accounting for interest even though it is clear that people have nothing to repay from and that the moratorium will not actually solve anything because again all these interest loans will be settled on citizens. Zero is a moratorium, but as soon as the interest goes, it's just people will be pushed into bigger and bigger debts, and by then they'll be without a lip in their pocket. What I have to say is this, the financial system works in a way that money is created exclusively by taking credit, the fellow Shuker knows it, but the average citizen doesn't know it, he thinks that money is created by honest work, that it falls from the sky, etc., but the only way that money enters the system is credit. What's going on? The banks gave us all credits, and back they're looking for capitals plus interest, which translates into banks asking society to pay back more money than society at all. For this reason, the sum of all loans, meaning the sum of the debts of the principal and the interest is greater than the total amount of the deposit, which means that the loans are technically non-refundable because the total amount of the debt is greater than the total amount of the money. Therefore, the Croatian State and other countries of the world cannot repay their debts and fall into growing debt. The question is, who's the creditor? You will immediately understand that not the states that lend money but the government of money is alienated from the state and have this small group of people, I would dare call them international clicks. And why is that? Because they do their jobs all over the world and enslave the whole world and so does our country. Now what's going on? When I tell people that loans are non-refundable, they falsely think they are. Why? Because at the moment when society is in debt at that point, the money flows into circulation, means money goes into circulation, liquidity goes into the system. However, at the moment when banks reject the pipe, when they stop issuing loans, new principals or new money cease to enter the financial system, and all existing money and credit must be returned. And what's going to happen? To get to the so-called so-called. monetary contractions, the same crisis we saw in 2008 and '09 will now be repeated. And what's going to happen? As monetary mass collapses, so will those who did not primarily die due to the crown of the virus, or whose activity has not been suspended. Finally, there will be an economic breakdown, and at that time many who claim that loans are remunerated will not actually admit that they are not repayable, will probably make sure that they are but will realize that they cannot return them. But as long as people can repay their loans they are convinced that the system is sustainable, however I say the system is not sustainable and its goal is in an artificial way to cause a financial crisis and that is what the state is going to do at the moment. I also have to point to one thought, again Mr. Schucker is here and he knows it, the CNB is a currency exchanger, which means that the exchange rate of the kuna is tied to the euro. To illustrate this to the citizens, we buy foreign goods and services annually for around 14 billion euros, so we have an inflow of 14 billion euros in Croatia. At the same time, however, we have expressed ourselves wrongly, we are giving 14 billion euros out on imports, we are importing goods for 14 billion euros, and at the same time we are exporting only for 7 billion euros, so we have a hole of 7 billion euros. We import by 14 billion, and we export by 7 billion euros, but we compensate that hole with tourism. At the moment of the absence of foreign exchange inflows from tourism happens, and this is now happening, the 7 billion euros from tourism this year will not come and we will find ourselves in a situation that at an annual level 14 billion goes out because we have no production economy because the course is unrealistic, it is not cost-effective, and only 7 billion euros are coming. In a situation where you have a real course, we had this at a time of war, then we had a Croatian dinar, then there was another reason for the absence of foreign exchange inflows. It was a war, so we didn't have any tourism because of the war, now we don't have a crown and in such conditions in the so-called. There was a decline in the value of our currency, so the Croatian dinar was losing value there was inflation. However, since the kuna is now tied to the euro, i.e. that the exchange rate oscillates around 7.5 kuna for the euro, a little more, a little less all the time, it is quasi-fixed, there will be no inflation because it is evident that in this system it will not be corrected but it will be the disappearance of the monetary mass, it will simply come to a terrible kuna depriving that we have not seen before. And the only solution to this crisis, I've been repeating since I was in the Parliament, and even before I joined the Parliament, is to abolish the currency clause on loans and that the state is finally starting to print money. If that doesn't happen, I'll meet you in a situation of terrible expense. The state must give to all people who are in need a certain amount of money that they can survive the month with. But in this system, the state can't do that. And why can't the ladies and gentlemen? So because there are these limits, the EU is asking us what they call price stability, the EU says the deficit must not be greater than 2%. And in this case not to be a deficit, counterpart Schucker says 3%, so in these conditions not that the deficit will be 3%, the ma deficit will be 30, 40% and simply not that the state won't be able to help the people of the new ones who are in trouble, but it won't be able to service the current obligations either, there will be cuts. But what I'm saying is, it's not my problem for me to get paid less, on the contrary, I'm calling on the state to cut our wages, but I'm against doing cuts in a way that pays less. I want a rate correction or that my salary, which is now worth, say, 2,100 euros after that correction, is worth, say, 1,800 euros. So, I want the real rate to be set up and I want the state to be free and let it increase the wages, let those salaries be less, let pay, let the type 30.000,00 kn only be worth EUR 1.500,00, I have nothing against that solution, means that money is worth it. But in that case, if inflation occurs, and the currency clause is abolished, we're all out of credit. Because the loans will remain in nominal amounts if the war was 3.00, 4,000,00, 10,000,00 kn, and the wages increase, even if their real value fell, but the credit rates will remain the same. And I'd only want to end one lie to expose it. The biggest banking lie in the Republic of Croatia is that the currency clause exists because people are saving in foreign exchanges, but that's not true. At the time of Yugoslavia, the basis for all loans was domestic currency, which was a Yugoslav dinar. And if you came to the bank for a business loan, that business bank, e.g. PBZ would ask the National Bank of Yugoslavia to lend you dinars. Your loan was in dinars. And if you had some foreign exchange savings, if you came to 300, 500, 1000, 10,000,00 marks, you could have put those stamps in the foreign exchange account, but the banks didn't use those foreign exchanges to issue loans. If someone asked for a loan, they wouldn't touch those foreign exchanges because they wouldn't give out foreign exchange loans but would go to the central bank to get the dinars. But in the Republic of Croatia today, that's not what happens. In the Republic of Croatia, the banks don't go to HNB for kuna because the CNB is a currency exchange office and that the CNB is not a currency swap clause we wouldn't have at all. This is a very serious problem. Unfortunately, I'm the only one in the assembly who talks about it. And why is that? It'll show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194949	Mr. Alexic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194950	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, I know you're well-intentioned, but there are some things you simply don't understand. Several hundred thousand citizens, if not over a million have already returned their loans to this day, therefore loans are returning, there are no problems. Credit problems are that part of the loan, a large part of the loan is agreed with unfair contractual provisions. Unfortunately, neither you nor many colleagues here at HS understand what's unfair about loans. I believe you have no idea what's illegal in loans, which was ruled in a collective court ruling. I believe you don't know that. And you should pay attention to that, which is unfair in loans, which banks have to pay back to people, not saying that loans are invaluable. Credits aren't invaluable. They're invaluable when there's a crisis, then they are. If all credits in the economy are repayable and if loans with fair contractual provisions are loans are repayable. Unpayable are unfair loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194951	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194952	Dear Representative Aleksic, on the micro-level, loans are repayable. For example. Mr. Shuker will return his loans, Mr. Bull, I don't even know who else does. I believe Mr Furio Radin, too, had the loans back. However, I am telling you persistently about the total sum of all loans. I'm talking about macros. And Mr. Shucker understands me. He was the finance minister and he's clear, but unfortunately, Mr. Alexic, you're looking at a micro-level, looking from the perspective of a particular citizen. I agree with you that the banks should return the payments. I'm one of those guys who keeps saying that currency clauses shouldn't have been, that these loans shouldn't have even been growing, wars by double, etc., but that doesn't interest anyone. And on this occasion, would you invite Mr. Shucker to collect his courage and tell the truth about whether loans in total are repayable or not? Is the financial system a fraud? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194953	Mr. Bulj has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194954	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, our citizens are in fear, justified fear that they remain now, losing jobs, entrepreneurs cannot produce because certain activities are banned, certain freedoms have been abolished to prevent this chaos. Healthful this spread. However, when we look at the banks, banks are liquid and banks do not give up anything and therefore the emergency government needs to bring a strong measure, a strong measure, a moratorium on loans and the state to decide that there is no interest. But in the Republic of Croatia, apparently all foreign banks, including teleoperators who have the highest profits in the Republic of Croatia, have twice as much profit as in countries where they come from, they are the ones who do business over our citizens and so milk money. In this situation you need, so moratorium on this performance and credit, and that's nothing to the banks, they're liquid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194955	Thank you. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194956	So you know Mr. Bull what reminds me of this government's solution? The day before the casino closed, I was walking past one, and one of the employees came out of it and he welcomed me and said, "Pernar, what are you, what's up?" I say hi, bye, and so on. And he says to me you know what kind of solution the government is offering, this as far as you don't have to pay your contribution and taxes on pay, but with a delay, you'll pay later. It's like I'm telling you how to come Pernar, you can gamble, it spins the roulette, you don't have to pay now, you'll pay later. He says to me, well that's no solution, that, that every person who gambles in the casino sees that it's no help, that this delay actually represents nothing because you're finally going to have to pay for it. But when I explained it to Plenkovic, he laughed at me. And on the other hand, of course, it's not just that you don't have to pay when you don't have income, but also to freeze interest, otherwise no one will be able to repay the loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194957	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Ivan Schuker will have his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have a law on the agenda that we can practically say is a patch of the unambiguous law. And these are practically technical changes to comply with EU directives, and that's basically what it is. However, we today, many colleagues have talked about the practical performances in the Republic of Croatia stopping for the next few months because of the situation in which we are and the reason why I volunteered for the debate, not to repeat the technical characteristics of this law but simply to make it clear in my personal name and in the name of the HDZ club, that I have simply taken some of the things the Government has done in the past days. My colleagues and colleagues, remember when civil protection crisis headquarters was formed, many were objecting and should be made, and should do so, all these critics have retired today because it is evident that, above all, Minister Beroš and Mrs. Markotic did a great job, and most importantly, Croatian citizens trust them, that's the most important thing. So they gained confidence in Croatian citizens. There's always one part of the faithless Tom that thinks it should be different. The government has also proposed to this House 63 measures that it has framed in 19 legislative changes, with those who have read these measures and who has read the legal proposals and powers that the Government has received, and those measures are very flexible. Why? Well, because simply someone who looks at this situation is aware that the situation is changing from day to day and that you will simply need to be corrected overnight to save the situation. It is also logical for me to listen that colleagues have such and such suggestions, to be distressed by this problem, or to be associated with people, with whom they communicate, and it is logical for them to point out that. However, colleagues and colleagues, here I think two things are crucial. Whether we wanted to or not, we have to trust the government, why? Well, because they're operationally making all the decisions. They're operating everything. We simply do that if we don't agree on some things, we just have to believe that it's done in the good stuff. Another thing, to be honest, we can talk about what we want here, but who's the responsibility? Who's the responsibility? Now I will not refer to the Sir or the Functions, Plenkovic, Bozinović, Beros, Markotić, Maric, as the responsibility is on them. Why? Because those who make decisions are those who propose certain measures, and these measures result in very difficult things and as far as the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, as well as about the economy. I'm the other day talking about the Insurance Act, aware of the facts that will happen and that simply Croatia as a small country, at this point must take advantage of all the opportunities and potentials to achieve health success as well as to achieve health success as best possible in that economic work, because you simply have to preserve the healthy tissue of the economy because tomorrow when the situation is normalised, that as soon as you start from the crisis. And if you won't recognize all the potentials you have, if you won't take advantage of everything the newly created situation offers as a member of the EU, then you can say that with these missed things. The financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is not just banks, there are insurance companies, there are various funds and some other institutions of banking and non-banking sectors, and just now, and I'm sure that the colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have been doing it for days, just watch, some things are done like this, away from the eyes of the public and then when they are being defined, then they are presented, and they are certainly talking because you have safe and from the fact that in some situation insurance companies also have to start reacting to simple things being made, but something that has not been mentioned here in the debate before today is not mentioned, in my opinion one of the key decisions that sends one big message, and this is an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget. And it is good that the government has accepted the SDP's proposal that the Ministry of Finance report on the redistribution of funds every 14 days. To be honest, this provision was in the law on the implementation of the budget that SDP abolished in 2012, but well, we have now accepted, why, because at this moment, no one knows first of all when counterpart Boris Lalovac and I talked about it, it is something that is most normal and what the government will surely accept, so it is not in the interest that the Croatian public does not know what activities have been done in the state budget because look, this state budget on its income and expenditure side when this story is done by God, it will not have anything to do with what the High House adopted. And I think that colleagues at the Ministry of Finance fell a big rock from the heart when that provision was passed, they're going to assume what they're doing, because for what, colleagues and colleagues? Because of this situation, because of these measures taken by the Government, the activities of many of those who receive money from the budget are unnecessary because they cannot take place. And the logical thing is that the Ministry of Finance, which is why I expect the other day when the Prime Minister proposed these measures, the responsibility and those who receive and who give because if there is no mutual responsibility then we will, we can get into chaos. So, the normal thing that the Government will use all available resources it has at this point within its own budget, regardless of what is evident to be reduced revenue from the state budget, for what is most important at this point and I said at the outset, that is health care age is enough material resources to fight the infection, as well as to intervene in the economy with those priorities as the Government has concluded. And colleagues and colleagues, you can't be freed from something that you haven't accomplished. If you three months. You have not done anything unless you have accomplished anything, so you have no obligation. But in three months. or 4 will see what the situation is and surely the Government will come up with concrete measures. And now in the end, I'm gonna end up with the banks. Well, I expect the banks, if they're responsible, to do a thorough analysis of the credit ratings they've had in the last few years and to assess a few degrees of risk of credit, who's going to behave. And another thing, she has a folk saying that the living head will restore everything, and the dead head unfortunately won't do anything. And if you paraphrasise it in this banking sector, all that has the potential to heal them is in their interest to heal because tomorrow you will be their commissioners on which they will earn. And the government, you saw you managed to bring to the same table both the CNB and the financial sector and the resolution ministers, and in the end you will surely respect some proposals and colleagues from the opposition both from the HUP and the Chamber of Commerce. Because why? If we trust each other and if we're aware of the responsibilities that those who carry out have then we have a chance of success, then we're going to do something, but if we're going to plant each other's legs, stab each other in the back because we might get a cheap political point today, we're not going to have anything to talk about tomorrow. Because this is something that never happened. You see that practically the European Commission has suspended all budget measures. Simply along with the money he's gonna give from the central budget has sent a message to everyone, gentlemen do as you can, but mostly it's a global problem and we have two things, and the first is to save lives and prevent infection. And I think that's the way to think and think that this whole story still needs to be added to one human dimension because every time you see someone you've known for years when at one point there's not a crown that takes him away, it's gonna be hard for you to get hit like a man. Also, if some economic operator disappears, it's hard for you to have him gone. Therefore, it is a common battle, I repeat, we must trust those who bear responsibility and no matter what anyone thinks, but I repeat, many people on the medical side have objected to people who are doing business at this time, but you talk to ordinary people, so you will see that the largest number of ordinary Croatian citizens trust this team that leads and that part, and I hope that when Croatian businessmen start getting help from all possible resources that the Government has that they will also see one light and that they will solve problems together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194959	Mr. Alexic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194960	Thank you. Dear counterpart Shuker, I don't sell any cheap political game, I don't buy cheap political points, I always say in this assembly only arguments, I deal exclusively with Croatian law and EU law, what I propose is based on Croatian law, on EU law and on EU judgments that are powerful in the EU court, whether it is irrelevant to Croatian courts, mainly on facts. Now I ask you, the other day, in fact, the government presented its measures, among those measures, it is said that there will be a delay in the performance and dissuasion. Now you tell me where it's prescribed, I didn't find it. The government said there was a delay between the measures of the execution and the dissuasion, she publicly said, went out in the media, where it was prescribed because I didn't find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194961	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194962	My colleague Alexic, I was deliberately in my debate so I said that certain meetings are taking place, that we all have to believe and that we must be aware of someone's responsibilities. Do you think Mr Plenkovic would have made such a statement as Prime Minister Andrej Plenovic as a citizen, Minister Maric, in the same way that it was not agreed, would Zdenko Adrovic, on behalf of the Croatian Banks Association, say the same thing yesterday. Well, this isn't the time to play, Mr. Alexic. This is the time of the struggle, Mr Alexic, this is the time of the struggle for the naked lives of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, and to whom it is not clear it is missed you know what colleagues from the neighbourhood say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194963	Mr. Pernar, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194964	Dear Representative Shuker, I thought you'd get the courage to say from your place that the loans in total are not paid because the total amount of debt is greater than the total amount of money that exists in the world and in Croatia, of course. But I didn't hear that from you. But I'll tell you this, here's what I'm going to call you to raise your manhood, to have the courage to tell the truth to the Croatian people, and if, by any chance, you're going to lie to the Croatian people and say that the loans are still paid off, I'd like to ask you why Croatia doesn't pay back its debt, but our country's debt is growing more and more yearly despite Plenkovic's lies and other pillows that are constantly dying public and assure you that everything is fine and that it's going to be better, and we see cars going downhill. And on the other hand, it's not just a trend in Croatia, it's a global trend. So obviously it's not a problem in a particular country, it's a monetary system that this international click has imposed on the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194965	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194966	Comrade Pernar, the two of us have talked about it a few times and you have your opinion, I'm simply trying to tell you the fact, money is nothing but goods like everything else. Someone made extra money, and that money was offered to someone with a lack of money. At the moment when Croatia is more productive than this spends, Croatia will start paying back its debt. It's just a fact. It's the same story as the citizens repay their debt and pay their dues. I just can't say anything else because they're facts. That's the facts. And you if you have a government budget deficit zero then you don't have to borrow, but if you come up with some payment credit, you're in charge of repaying that loan, but you didn't increase your credit debt because you returned what you owed before, and with that money you owed, you did something, no. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194967	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194968	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Shuker had a responsibility at the national headquarters in the fight against the coronary virus. You didn't tell him the title, as if we were all citizens now and that we were equal in this fight. I think otherwise, I think we're all responsible and we have a part of responsibility, each at some level depending on who's in place and this way we should thank all the people who are responsible and intimately doing their job from a police officer to a cleaning lady in a hospital to a medical staff, because we all have some kind of role to play in this story. However, I would say that if we were to call for solidarity then we would have to say this fellow Shuker. How is it possible that the savings credit, for example, the Raiffeisen Credit Cooperatives who gave credit to our people, who are criminal, are doing business against our people? Is there anywhere written to be, that there is no purpose of this one property? None We speak here in good faith. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194969	Mr. Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194970	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, when I named my colleagues from the party and the government by my name and name, you know why I did it? Well because they are not the only one, behind each of them stands an army of Croatian citizens who are working at this point responsible jobs, when I told William Beroš then I, and the lady, called her specifically because she was truly doing a great job, Markotic, behind them is a complete medical part of the story. So, I'm just gonna symbolically try to say something without the intention of reducing anyone's contribution to the fight because the logical thing is that at this point whoever can help is going to help. And as for the Raiffeisen Savings, I think I'm one of the few in this home that's already been good for eight or nine years. He talks and fights for the rights of these people, but on what can really happen, and I don't think they're going to do any work on Croatian citizens either, be sure of your colleague Bulj. At this point, no one will do anything about the conduct of Croatian citizens, and to whom it comes to mind, the ugly one has been wronged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194971	I'm sorry, I'm sorry I let you talk long because I didn't look at the watch. Thank you. We're done with the debate now, so I'm locking it up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank you for having had a constructive discussion and for having reached this point of the agenda at a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-20-0.u194972	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the budget, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 855. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Goran Aleksic. The amendment will not be decided because it does not comply with Article 196(3). The rules of procedure which determines that amendments may only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation. The result of the vote is 119 for, 8 abstentions and 3 against. I thank you both and now we move to the first item of the agenda, which is: - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881. Here you go, fellow Vucelic.
