ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9691	It is now up to Mr Domagoj Hajdukovic, who will be the SDP's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this week, we could witness a terrible and ruthless event in my city in Osijek, and we could read these headlines, “Horrow in Osijek, the mad man attacked my wife and daughter, help me kill my mom,” or “I heard screams, I saw a woman in a pool of blood, stabbed a woman, hurt a man and myself. ” We learned from the media that it was an attack by an ex-partner on a woman with whom she was involved and her daughter, and if there were no accidental passerby as some say the media or the master or locksmith who came to change the locks, probably headlines that would have been much more tragic, would have been unfortunately fatal cases. And this case, like many before that, is a terrible case of how inadequately we fight and deal with the issue of domestic violence. Namely, this same bully who tried to take his life and his wife, and then reported to himself on Friday, and this unfortunate event took place on Saturday, was reported for domestic violence Friday, was detained in the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration and detained for 24 hours. He was allowed to defend himself from freedom, although he was given precautions against the damaged in this case, so I guess it was a restraining order, but obviously it wasn't enough. If there was a breach, we could talk about it. That day means Saturday when the attack itself occurred in the late afternoon hours he was reported to the DORH by the damage that he tried to contact her, about 45 minutes later there was an attack. And I'll draw your attention to the fact that the attacker has been known to the police for violent behavior since then, even as a suspect in attempted murder. What does this unkind event tell us about our system of protection victims of domestic violence? First of all, he's inadequate. Could this tragedy have been avoided? It is not enough for colleagues and colleagues just to ratify the Istanbul Convention, some clear and concrete steps need to be taken. In several cases, I asked the government how much money was provided for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, the answer I received was that nothing was provided because the Istanbul Convention was implemented through other programmes. We see how your colleagues and colleagues are doing, we see. Unfortunately, the injuries that women and daughters sustained are not just physical, they are much deeper than physical ones. And in the medical dictionary, as I always like to say, one kuna invested in prevention was saved five kunas in recovery. How many resolutions will it take for these two lives and those affected by them, and that's much wider, so we're talking about families, broaders, friends, relatives, acquaintances, how much money we're going to spend, solving scenes, trauma, and then ultimately physical injuries to which the wife and daughter were exposed. Could we have prevented that and how? Well, first of all, the education of colleagues and colleagues, the police and the judiciary. I'm afraid that our police have no elaborated measures and procedures in such unsuspecting events entirely and that often they don't know themselves how to act in such and similar cases because they are very delicate cases, domestic violence is always a delicate subject and it's always not just a physical threat, not just physical violence, but something full of deeper, psychological violence, trauma and a lot of other things. First of all, police officers who receive these applications should be educated to work on it, and then the judiciary, which unfortunately in many cases, honors exceptions, is uninterested in education, which is crucial. It is crucial that we have an educated frame that will be able to deal effectively and professionally with such cases so that we do not have to read more of these titles and that we do not have to worry about what will happen to the lives of a young woman and a young daughter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9693	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Tomašević will be the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9775	I thank the parliamentary staff, thank the chairman, today I want to talk about the National Development Strategy by 2030. I'll remind you a little bit of how we got here and where we should move on. So on 28 September 2017, the Government has pompously set up a governing committee to manage the development and end the adoption of the National Development Strategy from 2020 to 2030, which will set a new development direction for the Republic of Croatia. On the board of directors of the Management Board is absolutely the entire government, so all ministers, there was then the president, there were different chambers of commerce, representatives of the union, representatives of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and one, one representative of the Croatian Parliament. It shows how long it was then and how long the government had kept the parliament involved in drawing up a strategy that eventually comes and has to come to the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament must adopt it after the parliamentary debate. How'd the strategy go? It went in such a way that the strategy that should, means one of the main objectives of mobilising domestic capacities, based on knowledge, a new, new developmental direction of Croatia to keep as much new value as possible in Croatia and to stay in the local community has spent 32 million kunas to create analytical bases for the national strategy that we have paid the World Bank. So besides all the domestic knowledge capacities, all the institutes, all the colleges, all the private companies, consular firms, etc., we just had to pay the World Bank more than 30 million kuna for making analytical bases. It was said that on March 1st of this year, it was a plan to find this strategy in the Croatian Parliament so that, by the end of the year, the operational programme for the withdrawal of structural funds from one side would succeed, and what eventually happened for the same development of the national recovery and resilience plan that we need to withdraw funds from the next-generation European Fund of the EU that was created after this whole crisis started. So here is now the November strategy in the assembly is still missing, we are closest as the Assembly to come to the development strategy when the pompous prime minister showed it here the other day in front of parliamentary MPs and said the strategy was over because in this way, these are the closest the parliamentary representatives were involved in the creation of the national development strategy itself. When you look at for example on the development strategy website you look at the news and says there is no content, there is no content, under the news from the website for the national development strategy. And then what happens these days? The government is sending a letter and requesting the Office of the President of the State that now that the strategy has been completed after the prime minister showed it in the assembly, he appointed it to the board of directors of his representative today when he goes to public debate strategies. So in a normal state three years ago, parliamentary representatives, clubs of different, opposition would be included in this development of a strategy or the management of a strategy in order to reach some consensus. It didn't happen, for a year it waited I don't know why to include the President's Office in this because it was elected almost a year ago and now the President's Office has proposed to include an opposition in the management of this. on the board of directors and we welcome it. In the normal state, it was supposed to be done 3 years ago, but better ever, better ever than never, because now after a public debate, it will take a finalisation of that document before it enters the parliamentary procedure, and we from the opposition are very open to reach a consensus that will make a destructive turn, which will make it less energy imports, less food, to go towards green transformation of the economy, to reduce social inequalities, to increase crisis resistance, to climate crisis, to social, economic, health crisis. which we are currently in, and this is our chance not to miss because for 30 years Croatia has been going the wrong way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9776	Thank you very much. And the last Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will be the position of the IP, Smart and Glass Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9835	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we live in an era that is completely different, we live in the Corona era, we live in some other conditions, and at that time there is a constant constant that has not changed, which is the sustainability of the relationship between Mr Milan Bandic and HDZ when it comes to the City of Zagreb. They loved each other in secret for years, so they loved each other in public, so they fought a little bit, so they made little peace, so they made a little arrangements in secret, and now in the last city assembly they showed the proportions of their love, and it's about a project that is harmful to the citizens of the City of Zagreb and not only to the citizens of the City of Zagreb, it's an absolutely harmful project and it's about the establishment of a company that's named, regardless of what we can call it, Block Badel, and we can call it Block Kvatrić. What's this about? A decision has been made to establish a company in which the city will enter its property called Kvatric of 155 million kuna, then an investor who has to invest as much money in the company, but when that investor comes, then the relationship will be owned by the investor, and 49 of the City of Zagreb. It is clear to everyone who has already finished and to those children who have completed that popular school that 51 is more than 49, that the investor who will be in the company will manage everyone, and the City of Zagreb will air-conditioned there. And look at the wonders, at that same session was the decision to do urban planning for that space. We who were the opposition in the city assembly pointed to the harmfulness of the project, pointed to the harmfulness of this decision, indicated that this should not be done because, in any event, the urban planning of the arrangement was adopted then, in accordance with the applicable Real Estate Assessment Act, this property could no longer be assessed in one amount of 155 million kuna than that amount should be 30% higher. So the Realty Assessment Act says that real estate is assessed if a spatial plan has been accidentally adopted, and it's a urban plan, then it can't have a certain reduction. The same session therefore decides that the urban planning of the arrangements will be financed by the City of Zagreb, by taxpayers and a decision will be made to establish a new company in which the City of Zagreb will enter the property, and the investor will come and will become the owner of 51%. Mr Plenkovic, such decisions in the City of Zagreb cannot be made without you knowing it and you knew it. You knew that was the case. They probably warned you or offered you your attention that it wasn't good. For what reason? The colleagues in the City Assembly discussed and spoke, even more strongly than we did from the opposition, about the harmfulness of the treaty, about the harmfulness of the City of Zagreb's budget, about the harmfulness of the development of the City of Zagreb, and see when the vote was loudly silent. We have already been through such a story since the GUP and when it was a story with Manhattan, when you also made Mr. Plenkovic a decision not to vote GUP in Zagreb and that this great project Manhattan went into history as a bunch of projects. But here you either grumbled or didn't want to know or knew, so now you decide what's more harmful, but what's done is the damage done for the development of the City of Zagreb, for the budget of the City of Zagreb, for future projects, and then I'll say, '94. and '95, 1994 and '95. a similar company for Kvatric or Block Badel has already been established, so after a year it turns out it's not good, but I'm afraid this time It won't be like that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9836	Thank you very much. Now I'm setting a break for airing out the hall, the hall. Stanka will last until 14 hours when we will continue to discuss tax laws clubs. It's 1:00 P.M. It is time to take a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will present the position of the Croatian Sovereigns Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9865	Free speeches are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9866	Yes, yes, you have the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9867	Here's a little bit, I have to admit, I thought I'd talk about tax reform, but here I liked to talk about any subject, but I'm still going to talk about tax reform so I can stay on the subject that we're all in. So, this tax reform, as well as many other tax reforms so far, seems to relieve the most people who already have the most and that in the next period, we will grow even more savings. Not saving those who live from retirement, not saving those who live on the minimum, not saving those who live on average, but saving those who are the richest, the most wealthy. And while those who are poor today or live on the edge of poverty will continue to live equally modestly, they will continue to survive. A key question that I would ask the entire Croatian public here, and, of course, to our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Maric, who has just left the assembly, is it possible to survive from the average Croatian salary or even more radically, is it possible to survive the whole month with two minimum Croatian salaries? I'm responsible for saying it's not. Especially if it is a normal Croatian family that Andrej Plenkovic advocates, so two, three and more children, because if we are for demographic restoration, for demographics it means demographic catharsis, then we will, then we will want such families. So of the two average salary with three kids, and if you're out of a loan, you can't live, you can't pay the director, you can't take the loan, you can't pay your kid's driving test, you can't buy your kid a prom dress and you can't send your kid on a prom trip. So that's what's key. And then all these cosmetic measures that we have today, which sound nice, actually don't help the poorest, those who barely survive the end, to live something better, and that's what I'm talking about often, and I'd like this one here, the speech, to get these words to the ears of those who determine what kind of Croatian laws will be. It's not us in opposition, it's them in power. I will be honest here so I will say that even the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is not, not guilty of the current situation completely, but is responsible in that sense for taking over the position of government. I would also like to hear from Minister Maric and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that from this pay phone, and not only must he from this pay phone and anywhere, let them say what I said. That out of two minimum or two average salaries in Croatia, I'm talking about one family can't live. And that, in fact, the instructions of all those who have these receipts, let them get on the side a little bit, let them find another kuna because otherwise they will end up in the soup kitchens, or the system will have to take care of them. Here's so much for free speech, and a little bit on the subject of tax and tax reform a little later, when the time comes to discuss the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9938	Now it is Mr. Damir Habian who will present the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u9939	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will look back at the last session of the National Council for the Introduction of the euro, and the proposal for a National Change Plan for the Croatian Kuna with the euro which was sent yesterday via e-consultation to the web pages. One of the main objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia was to join full membership of the EU and NATO alliance that has been fulfilled. On 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia then became 28 full members of the EU. However, Croatia has not yet completed its full affirmation of the European road. There is still the entry into Schengen which represents the space of free movement of people and goods without internal control with 22 other Member States, and the entry into the euro zone of the monetary union of 19 EU Member States that adopted the euro as their primary currency and the only legal means of payment. In May 2018, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision establishing the National Council for the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. A key step in the process of introducing the euro is the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Course Mechanism in July this year, which followed the implementation of 19 measures under the action plan. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic announced at the 7th session of the National Council yesterday that the aim is to prepare everything necessary for the introduction of the euro from 1 January 2023, and the proposal for a national exchange plan for Croatia's kuna with the euro was also published through an e-consummation. However, as was the case with Croatia's entry into the EU and at this stage, the introduction of the euro as a legal means of payment there are those who oppose it. It is, of course, the legitimate right of every political option and of every individual. That is why, however, it is also necessary to highlight the benefits of EU membership and the reasons for the introduction of the euro. Let us imagine for a moment that Croatia is not a member of the European Union at the time of the greatest global crisis in the last hundred years caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. It would make it impossible to enter the EU internal market as well as access to EU funds. It is precisely thanks to EU membership that Croatia has available 24.2 billion euros in the next period, from a new generation fund of 10.6 billion euros, a multi-annual financial framework of 12.9 billion euros, and a Solidarity Fund of more than 684 million euros, and it would already have an additional 1.1 billion euros in the euro area from the European Stabilisation Mechanism for crisis financing. That is why it is necessary to highlight the advantages Croatia will achieve by entering the eurozone. The currency risk in the euro to which most of our citizens are exposed, but also companies will completely disappear. Debt will become more favourable, and international exchange with euro area members will be facilitated because there will be no need for frequent exchanges of kunas in the euro and vice versa. The resilience of the economy to the so-called economy will increase. external shocks, all of which will ultimately contribute to improving the business and investment climate. As I have already mentioned on the e-consultation web pages, the proposal for a national change plan for Croatia's kuna was published with the euro. The proposal provides that in the conversion process, the cash, prices and all other amounts expressed in kuna are to be converted into euro by applying the fixed conversion rate shown in full number. Banks will provide money exchange and kuna coins in euro within a year of the euro being introduced, while the Croatian National Bank will, without a time limit, exchange kunas in euro, and coins by the end of three years from the day of the introduction of the euro. It is important to mention that the proposal for a national plan provides that the conversion of kuna funds on bank accounts is currently carried out on the day of the introduction of the euro without compensation, while all kuna loans and loans with a euro currency clause will be considered euro loans, and the issue of their conversion will be regulated by the law governing the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia. In front of us, colleagues and colleagues, there is a challenging intensive period until the introduction of the euro, and it is up to all of us to actively participate in this process through educational activities, to pass on all important information to citizens, and in particular to work on raising awareness of consumer protection measures and to control the implementation of the dual display of prices and pricing rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10005	Now it's Mr. Nikola Bartulic's turn to speak or present the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will use my five minutes to try to put into context, in the broader context of this topic of tax reform and in general what the Croatian budget looks like, so the structure of the budget itself. I think it's very important to repeat and underline some things. First, we need to be aware that the state as such does not create additional values, it simply takes through taxes and other charges from citizens and companies and according to its priorities then distributes that money. And in this process, if the state is as big in our case, I would say, huge, expensive, and all too present, I have the opportunity to almost daily determine both winners and losers. That's why we have this big problem, as much as we talk about equality before the law, equality, we're far from it. Because the state can, in fact, be a mother to some, and some stepmothers, unfortunately, and we're going to fight it, and the best way to reduce the abuse of leverage is to simply play a role in our lives in real economy, and we're going to stand up for it. So that's a prelude. Where do we see examples of what this looks like? Here, for example. through shipbuilding guarantees, billions and billions of kunas have been spent on state guarantees through this mechanism, for industries that are not actually competitive and we know that they do not make profits, i.e. profits on, say, made ships, so we encourage further such industries that have failed to adapt to market conditions in the world and the question is why all taxpayers would continue to finance it. It may be in someone's interest, but not in the general interest, it certainly isn't. We can only imagine anything that money could be spent. Furthermore, we have a case, I think this also shows the negligence of the state in spending taxpayers' money in Brussels, the Croatian government bought a building for our diplomacy even at the time of Vesna Pusic, today the building is empty. It's been empty for years, and in the meantime, the number of diplomats is growing, we've had the EU presidency, we're paying rent monthly, according to my knowledge, about 30,000 euros a month is paying rent for our diplomacy needs, and this whole time there's an empty building that's been bought. So this is one small indicator to which the state is not responsible for spending public money. What could be spent on, here I am now, since I am in the Parliament often getting requests and letters from citizens, among other things there is one headquarters down in Dalmatia, Split, the Centre for Fair Compensation in Split from a catastrophic fire that broke out there in 2017. Over 900 families are still waiting in from the state to respond to their justified demands, estimated damage from the state commission of over 130 million kuna. We remember that fire even at one point threatened Split. Thank God nobody got hurt, but there's a lot of damage to these people's property and there's no answer from the state. Here I promised them I'd try to talk about it in public, but through these examples we see how certain, unfortunately, mother spends money in an irresponsible way, and others she's a stepmom. So we're away from equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10007	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10061	Thank you very much. Today, November 12th marks the 100th anniversary of the conclusion of the Rapal Treaty between the Kingdom of Italy and the Kingdom of SHS led by Peter First Karadjordjevic, the king. After World War I, Italy grabbed Croatia's Istria, Zadar and part of Croatia's and Dalmatian islands. It is little known that even before the Rapal Treaty, so immediately after World War I, Italy occupied the Croatian coast, and only then entered the negotiations on demarcation. My colleagues, the Rapal Treaty, was the grab of Croatian territory, land and sea, and these are historical facts. Today, 100 years since the Rapal Treaty in the Italian Parliament, procedures and initiatives to declare an Italian exclusive economic belt to be discussed with applause from Italian lawmakers. That's what our media space is about with rare exceptions. It's not written, it's not talked about, it's a vow of silence. In particular, our Government of the Republic of Croatia has no courage to declare a Croatian exclusive economic belt on the Adriatic to protect its sovereign rights of economic, economic and ecological interests. For years we have watched from Italy different provocations and our government and diplomacy are constantly and effectively silent. Let us remember Tajani, a friend of Plenkovic, who spoke fascistly as President of the European Parliament about Italian Istria and Italian Dalmatia belonging to Italy. Gentlemen of the majority, have these light assemblies blinded you so much that you don't even see what's going on? Why don't you protect Croatia's national interests and sovereign rights of Croatia while we still have time to protect sovereign rights, economic and economic in our territory? The sea is the territory of the Republic of Croatia, twice MOST has made a proposal in this assembly, this home, you have refused them to court the fascist Tajani and their interests, while representatives in the Italian assembly protect their economic and economic interests at the expense of Croatia, Croatian territory and the Croatian people. I call you once again, and we have made this proposal, MOST has given it twice, you have refused, I call you for the people, for the interests of economic, economic and environmental, let us not court the Italians, nor anyone else, we exercise our international right, we declare the IGP on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10101	Now it is Mr. Silvano Hrelja's turn that will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10102	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I wish all pensioners had more than 3,000 kunas when they retire and then shouldn't talk or should talk less about the work of the pensioners, about life in poverty, etc. Unfortunately, it is not so, not everyone was fortunate to have had good employers, high contributions to them, that they had experienced years of retirement but had to go either to disability or family, etc. And when I talk about it, I always think about it in the context of filling and emptying the budget. Therefore, those who were formerly chargers of the budget through their contributions and taxes become beneficiaries of the budget. I got a picture in my head like you're standing on a bridge and you see a river coming and going. Now that coming of the river means, which makes every kuna, every drop does that river, it comes through contributions, through excise duties, through taxes and through others, and it goes to social benefits, pensions, health insurance, projects, etc., so I'm experiencing it. And then I feel like we're not doing enough or picking up what we have a chance to pick up. And you know for yourself, the second picture I want you to tell you and the grapes you have to tie up, grow the vine, nurse, pick up to get, get the wine. So if you missed it somewhere, you won't get it. And never, and not even though he welcomes some initiatives from the Ministry of Labour that will still liberalize the work of the pensioners, it's not coercion, gentlemen colleagues and fellow pensioners, no one makes you, God forbid you don't have to, that you don't have to do, but there are those who need it and there are those who want it, they want to stay as long in the world of work, be valuable, earn and prove themselves. It is our job here to give everyone the opportunity to work, not to bring discriminatory, discriminatory laws that enable one, and not allow the other. You know why, I mean, we were afraid in 2014, so we were afraid again in 2018 that the pensioners would be competitive for the workers, we were talking about 100,000 pensioners who would work, at the end of all these years working around 13,000, there's no competition, there's no risk of jobs, there's a need for even more work of pensioners. I'm asking you why shouldn't the users of the lowest pensions, who have the lowest incomes be able to work? They can theoretically work, but then retirement pensions for what they really used to pay and they have to earn their money that they usually receive every month. Just let them have that supplement on the lowest pension of 300-400 kuna, so it'll pay you back through the contribution because they'll have a labor contract, through a health or pension contribution. So why do you have family pensions? They're usually women who left at 50, 55. in retirement, why can't they, they can't do something and make money, and there's needs, there's needs because they have low incomes, family on their backs? Not because says family users can be children. So turn the kids off. Tell the law that it can't apply to children. Why can't disabled pensions work? He says they are, they have disability. But my people, some of them retired because their disability pension because the employer couldn't provide them with an adequate job, which doesn't mean they have a complete loss of their ability. They have a job loss compared to the job assessment, for others they do not have to be disabled. Why don't you let them? Leave them with that disability pension because what they earn through work will bring you taxes, health benefits and pension benefits, so they pay themselves what you gave them as a little bit more because they're in that pension. According to special regulations, one can work, one can't work, but see what's wrong with special regulations. That they work and pay taxes and contribute to them will not increase pensions because they already have a pension under special regulations. Therefore, everything they pay out of, from contributions to health care and pension goes to the Minister of Finance to make pension payments available to everyone, to everyone else because they will never get a bigger pension. I want you to think about this, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u10103	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12420	Thank you, thank you. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, I wish you a good morning. Before we move to today's debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposed on the basis of Article 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate on the following 4 points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, First Reading, P.Z.E. No.55 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 56 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. 57 i - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, P.Z. No. 58 Do we agree with that proposal? If there are no objections, we move to a united discussion of the proposed points. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12421	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a five-minute break in order to further consult on this tax reform. The objective of each tax system should be to ensure the normal functioning of the state, to ensure that the state and other public authorities such as the units of local self-government have sufficient income to provide funds for the regular operation of their operations. When we talk about local self-government units, first of all about education, health care, social care, but also about maintaining municipal infrastructure. Unfortunately, this proposal for tax reform, especially in the section relating to income tax, is seriously questioning the possibility of units of local self-government doing what is their duty. Unlike Croatia, Spain or Canada have set out in a different direction, and it is also a recommendation from the International Monetary Fund. Instead of reducing the tax to the richest recommendations, it is precisely additional taxation of the richest in society to be the cornerstone of economic recovery and economic recovery from the crown of the crisis. We're going the other way. We reduce their income to the bodies of public authorities, we prevent them from doing their duty at a time of health and economic crisis, and on the other hand we encourage inequality in society. Tax reform in the income tax section is given only to the richest. Those who have an average salary of 5 to 6,000 kuna will get crumbs, those who have a net average wage, we who are sitting in this house today will get a lot of money, we will get 1,000 or more kuna It's not good for respected colleagues and colleagues and we can't support it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12422	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Now we're going to a second request for a break, it's a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12423	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I was actually waving because I wanted to ask if it was a deal to be discussed on behalf of the club for 15 minutes and it's about four laws, but once you've seen me, I'm going to use this time anyway and say that on behalf of our club I'm looking for a break because my colleague Grbin said 5 minutes and we've had enough 5 minutes, but we want to stress one other thing. What is really necessary for Croatia's state is reform, no matter how corny the word is. Minister Maric is trying to go into 5 rounds of these tax reforms, but regarding reforms related to units of local self-government or decentralisation where it really is about 2 billion kunas that they will get into the budget less, it is roughly so calculated that it points to something else. If we want to have real decentralisation, then it has to be decentralisation from the funds. So these units of local self-government are again bound to the state, again it's the state where they have to report it, of course, I stress this balancing fund, it's again the state that's going to decide how much they're going to give them, and there's not going to be any progress and we're going around. So the state cannot be the mother that they then appear and pray for help, but we really need to make sure that we actually enter into real reform. This means our system of municipalities and cities that we will certainly not enter now, and we all know that because we are already in the stage of preparations for local elections, but what needs to be made possible is that they have the means to manage, not that they have to report to the state every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12424	Thank you. I didn't get to that, so the clubs on what I'm proposing would speak for 15 minutes, leaving the proposer for 20 minutes, individually 5. So now the clubs have the opportunity to place more emphasis on what you think is important. Let's move on now, the third request for a break will be explained by a respected colleague, Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12425	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone, here on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, I'm also looking for a break of 10 minutes. Thank you for raising the debate on behalf of the club for 15 minutes, but we are still looking for a break, we are aware that these four laws are extremely important to us here in the Croatian House in the Croatian Parliament as well as to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is only a proposal to amend the law on fiscalisation in cash that we could discuss here all day long because there are major problems for small OPGs that will be forced or forced by legal measures or proposed measures to introduce models or devices that will enable them to fiscalise their sales on the already popular dairy, egg and so on. We talked to these people, they mostly have old devices, they bought used devices, they don't have money, and it's very difficult for them to get into these old devices now, and they have to go into the additional investment of the installation, or to say, in Croatia, the addition of these devices to this fiscalization level, or they're going to have to buy new devices, and they're consciously going to have to go into one big cost that's for a small OPG, so let's say it's almost impossible to carry out. So, on that behalf and on behalf of all of us who think that we need to talk a lot and a lot more about changes in tax policy in Croatia, I am asking for a break of at least 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12426	The apartment will be approved. We are also going to the 4th explanation of the break, a respected colleague of Grozdana Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12427	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we would once again like to establish and demand a break from all these measures and the 5th round of tax reform, which proves that despite the problems that arise in the world economy, this government is trying to continue to take care of how many citizens' incomes are and how to relieve entrepreneurs. Let us not forget that otherwise the minimum or non-taxable income is increased from 2,600 to 4,000 kuna. The minimum wage has also been raised, also when you look at local self-government units in the proposal so far as planned for 1.1.2021 that their incomes will rise from 60% to 74% of income tax, so 20% of them increase their original incomes which they will have to take good care of. It is also very important to say how much the tax system is simplified and this way takes care of all layers and tries to stimulate and attract investors and thus ensure a quality, stable working environment in which all will be able to achieve appropriate income for appropriate work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12428	Thank you, the break will be approved. It is now the 5th request for a break, explained by a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12429	President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government. We are talking about tax reform, but today we will not talk about non-taxable donations or parafiscal impositions. What you know is that every entrepreneur may be even more burdened with his business, just hundreds and hundreds of charges we won't talk about today. When I last spring told the Prime Minister about this and warned him of an extremely large financial burden from a number of fiscal charges and told him there were 460, he laughed and said there were 600 you miscounted. So today we have about 600 parafiscal burdens of non-taxable giving that chokes every entrepreneur. I don't know if you're familiar with this. Have you ever been able to study this entire list and take a look at it? Have you sat down with your associates, with your head of government and discussed that these non-taxable duties should be abolished, reduced, to make life easier for Croatian citizens and, of course, business for Croatian entrepreneurs? I would like this topic to come to the agenda as soon as possible, because through tax reform alone, through the disbursement of salaries that I think is not enough, that it is not enough that we will not get the effect that we should get, which is that the standard of Croatian citizens is growing and that entrepreneurs work more easily in our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12430	Stanka will be approved to you, too. Is there another club on the way? If not, we'll continue at 9.55. It's 9:42 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:56 AM]] So we're going to a united discussion of the proposed points. The proposer of these legislative proposals shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Honorable Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12432	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here I would say traditionally, normally at the end of the year, with discussions on next year's budget goes a package of tax changes. I must stress that this package that is now in front of you four laws in the second reading will be five, so one of them will go, and I'll explain it a little later in the emergency procedure. Also, public consultation with the interested public was conducted, at the end of August there were forms of previous evaluation and then in October public consultation. 90 comments were received from almost half of them on income tax, 23 comments on VAT, profit tax 16, fiscalization in cash 10. We responded to all these comments in accordance with our legal obligation. I am personally here today with my colleagues from the IRS here today with us director and deputy director of the IRS looking forward to the debate because I think it's good and because of this high house, and also because of the citizens who are watching and watching and all to explain, there will be a lot of figures, there will be a lot of clarifications. I hope that we will be successful in the argument in terms of clarification so far, which is also proposed in general which are among other basic ideas and concepts of what we want with tax reform. I will only return briefly to the beginning, those concepts that we were talking about that tax system and tax policy which is the same kind and element of the policy of the overall economic being in the function of what we want, which is that, of course, through the tax system we give incentives and that we give incentives for a positive business environment for what will also stimulate investment, employment, wage growth and standards, and of course we should persist. This so-called. The fifth round of a single tax reform is somehow on the trail of all these principles so far and as much as we will, of course, focus on the changes that are now being proposed, we cannot ignore the whole story or the complete reform that has been going since the first day, so that is what we should look at, I would say as a whole. As far as income tax is concerned, without any intention now, but I will try each of these laws briefly to elaborate what has been done so far in these 20 minutes as I arrive, and of course through answers to your replicas or through the debate itself, explain everything together. But what's important to mention is that at this point we have about a million in 800 thousand taxpayers on income including pensioners who don't even pay it in terms of the amount of their income or pensions of some 2 million and 800 thousand. So what's important is that we can divide it about 2/3 from 1/3 of our perspective after we've raised the basic personal deduction from 2,600 to 3,800 on two occasions, and then from 3,800 to 4,000 as it was in the electoral programme, and so in the Government's programme, we're proposing that we cut into tax rates this time in a way that is down from 36 to 30 and 24 to 20, and then I'm going to explain a little bit. Among other things, there is only one thing I have to say that has rarely been ignored, and I mean it well in the Croatian Parliament, and that is the issue of this basic personal deduction. By the start of the tax reform, it was 2.600 kuna. For, I will now say one example here, that two abstentioned members, let's say for the first child you had an additional 1,300 kuna tax base reduction, for the second child an additional 1,820 all together 5,720 kuna, you had a reduction in the tax base before the start of this tax reform, means for you personally and for your two abstentioned members, or two children. After we raised from 2,600 to 4,000 parallels with it you remember that in the first round we also raised the coefficients for reducing the tax base for the children mentioned. So more so these 2,600 have grown to 4,000, for the first child from 1,300 to 1,750, for the second child from 1,820 to 2,500 kuna, so all in all 8,250 kuna reduction of the tax base compared to 5,720. This progression for dependent members or children is even more pronounced as we go to a number of children, in a way and a clear message among other things and a relationship related to demographics. Also, what I would mention is that it is parallel to legal changes, I have talked about it many times in the Croatian Parliament, although it is within the law of the Minister of Finance's jurisdiction, but every change was a public communication, public consultation, in the Croatian Parliament I spoke about it, you know that we have significantly expanded the circle of untaxed receipts. Until our changes in the first end of 2018, you had a total possibility of paying off the untaxable benefits of 2,500 kuna at the annual level. As a rule, this was for the payment of goddesses and resurrections or Santa Clauses or regressions as the entrepreneurs or employers had already decided. Before all the first year, we introduced that possibility of paying an additional 5,000 kuna for something we said whatever the entrepreneur called it, the reward, bonus, stimulant, was left to entrepreneurs and employers at will, after which we extended the coverage through untaxable food benefits, for accommodation, supplementary and additional health insurance, kindergartens, recently for covid tests, for vaccines and de facto we came to a situation when you add it all together now, and I will simplify that in some ways to make it easier for citizens to do this and remember it for all of us. Only when you take 5,000 for the prizes, 5,000 kuna for a diet without any need of this confirmation, account and similar, and the additional 3,000 kunas we have raised, for example, for Christmas and Easter, so you have 13,000 kunas minimum that you can, therefore, de facto 1,000 kuna per month net pay without any public giving. That's something you should also consider. What I would say is, in fact, the reduction of this proposal, which is, therefore, the reduction from 24 to 20, 36 to 30, and consequently all other incomes and all other compliances via the income tax system and thus the profit tax, the effect is 2 billion kuna in total. Here he would only refer earlier to the explanation of the break of this representative Grbin, therefore not in this package today, but there will also be a law on financing or amending the law and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the total effect of 2 billion kuna will not go to local self-government and regional but to the burden of the state budget in a way that the existing key to the distribution of income income from income tax will be corrected. Today cities and municipalities receive a total of 160, County 17, Balance Fund 17 and 6% of the same cities, municipalities and counties for decentralised functions, we also know ourselves, health care, education, social services, fire department. According to a new proposal by cities and municipalities, their share rises from 60 to 74, the county from 17 to 20, the remaining 6% remains on the same principle as I said about all cities, municipalities and counties for decentralised functions. In order not to conclude the disappearance of the Balance Fund, it does not disappear, remains with the same intention and purpose of paying off, from it funds go to economically less developed cities, municipalities and counties according to the criteria already well known, tax revenues per capita are monitored, the moving average of the last 5 g. However, unlike so far practice where it was filled by all 576 units, it will now be filled by the state budget. So, on the state budget in the draft budget that we are going to discuss next Thursday, you will see that item as such. As regards the change in income tax, the national remuneration for the elderly who has been introduced by a special law is now also considered here as other social benefits not to be paid by income tax and would not be taken into account when determining the right to a personal deduction for dependent members. Then the percentage of the increase in the tax on income from 50 per cent in the determination of income tax on the basis of the difference in value of assets and the amount of funds obtained in view of the reduction in the tax rate is increased. So we're talking about that so-called. non-dimension of assets and receipts. Today, 36% has been increased by 50% de facto 54%. Tomorrow, according to these exposures, the proposed changes, or early next year, as the tax rate decreases to 30%, we raise this increase to 100%. De facto that rate rises from 54 to 60, I'm only talking about a possible lack of proportion of assets and receipts. Then we have some simplifications, and I have to explain because there were several questions in the public consultation. If you're renting an apartment, so you're earning your income from the property, you can make a contract without certification with the public notary and bring it to the tax administration. We take this step if you decide to verify with the public notary you no longer have to go to the tax administration, the public notary is obliged to send that certified contract there. So one kind of simplification. Then, the possibility of paying the receipt in kind, on the basis of the allocation or optional purchase of their own shares, which employers, recipients of the reception or wages give to workers and natural persons. So far it's been a criterion that you have to be in plus, in profit, we've now expanded to those who aren't in profit, it's especially important for startups, for small companies that are just emerging, which in the first years between them may not even be able to make a profit, and that they still give incentives to their workers through the allocation of these optional shares. Finally, the elimination of the extension of taxation by an annual rate of 24% of taxpayers who made additional receipts on the basis of the second income to the level of the five-fold base of personal deduction, which simplifies the tax system. Some of you will recognize that. It's that small business institute, a little job that's so collokiously called, which would allow an additional 12,500 kuna to be taxed at 24%. Since we have raised the threshold for applying the rate 24% to 360,000 kn in some previous amendments, this measure no longer makes sense, and then we propose to delete those provisions. Now we're going to the profit tax. Profit tax, the key change is to lower the overall rate for all those who have an annual turnover of up to 7.5 million kuna from 12 to 10. So far, we've been communicating with the basis of data for 2018. It's about 93% of taxpayers. According to processed applications and data for 2019, this percentage is slightly smaller because a good part of them has crossed that threshold of 7.5 million kuna. However, in any case we can say, 9 out of 10, close to that amount, 9 out of 10 taxpayers are paying the rate right now 12, and tomorrow they would pay 10%, and that's on the trail of what we've said, and through this extra disbursement of direct taxes we give a kind of stimulant or leave to entrepreneurs and employers more space for, I repeat, both investment and employment. In parallel with this, certain provisions such as reducing the tax rate after deduction of dividends and the share in profits to foreign persons who are not physically also from 12 to 10 will also be harmonised. Then, for the appearances of foreign performers, any artists or athletes and similar professions are also adapted to those 10% and what is important and what is already important, I would say to the media space, but it seems to me that in the Croatian Parliament on several occasions was apostrophe, which is to improve the position of debtors, citizens and entrepreneurs. It is proposed that the tax recognition of the expenditure of the credit institution is the amount of the write-off of claims from an unrelated physical or legal basis, on the basis of credit ratings the value of which is harmonised in accordance with the specific rules of the CNB. So what we do with this measure, among other things, we give additional incentive to credit institutions, what we would say is that they are actively managing their claims and sitting at a table with a debtor, either physically or legally, and this way we give them stimulant, yes, or full or partial write-off, because what they would do reduces their tax liability, but the same is not treated as income, so there is no increase in its tax base. So, in this way, we want to prevent the situations that we had in previous situations and in previous years because and when the crisis comes, and in some other circumstances, some, of course, not by their own fault fall into difficulties, which is because of the loss of employment or some other circumstances, so they are no longer able to meet these obligations as originally defined. In this way we give them, the stimulant, the credit institutions exactly so that they talk to those debtors, negotiate and agree on that partial or complete write-off, not to include some third party, well-known. As well as the latest measure, one technical provision relating to the harmonisation, the compensatory adjustment of the transfer prices. In VAT, several changes in the VAT system have no change in terms of tax rates, but several important topics, you know what has been done so far, so since it is a short time, I don't have time to count everything anymore, but you know for yourself what products and services we have reduced the value added tax rate in previous iterations. Here we have several alignments with the directives that I think are good, that they have entered into force, that is, in force 1.7 next year. They go, among other things in favour and protect national economies, individuals and so on Croatian. I'll explain now. So, on imports of goods from third countries worth up to 22 euros, so far, so far, so on, so on. produce negligible values and do not pay VAT. Now, according to the directive, all deliveries, i.e. imports of all types of goods from third countries, are subject to taxation, both VAT and eventually customs duties. However, on the other hand, we have another important institute, which is, if a product is purchased from another EU Member State, the VAT of that other country is normally paid, until the supplier crosses the threshold of 270 thousand kuna in the Republic of Croatia. We have established, the tax administration has found that there have been a lot of irregularities in this area and we have set out to clarify these things, however, parallel to that and a directive that tightens the conditions. Not 270 thousand kuna, for example in Croatia, but 70 thousand kuna or, say, 10 thousand euros, all together outside your country. So the company, I don't know, Austrian or German or Swedish, all the deliveries it has, when it crosses that obligation, is when in the country where it delivers the goods, charge and pay the VAT of that country, so in this particular case, Croatia. Given the fact that Croatia, it is a notorious fact, has a higher VAT rate compared to all other EU members, we see for ourselves that this is a good part of protecting our domestic production, distribution, trade, etc., but in any case our economy. We are increasing the threshold for applying the taxation procedure to the fees paid, paid and charged fees, so I must always make it very clear, from 7.5 million to 15 million. You remember that during the course of the special circumstances, we have raised even the limitless threshold, which is not on the trail, i.e. in part, is in collapsing with EU directives. The EU directives have increased the threshold to 2m euros and we are now proposing in the law that this should happen. I must tell you that so far, about 20% of entrepreneurs, or value added tax taxpayers, have been using this benefit. And you remember for yourself that it was first introduced to the one with 3 million kuna traffic, so it was raised to 7.5, now to 15, with that I have to say that the time of the special circumstances something over 2,000, somewhere around 2 400 taxpayers used an additional possibility. It also extends the possibility of using the VAT accounting category in import to disbursement taxpayers in terms of the engagement of financial resources. And finally, fiscalization. The only change in these concerns the cash maximum, that the possibility, or the right of the Minister of Finance to prescribe the height of that cash max, is something that the entrepreneurs have appealed to us, that they have a little more flexibility in terms of everyday business, and you know, therefore, we are talking about cash in their cash register or vault. But I'm going to take this opportunity to briefly refer, too, to a reason for the break. So, as regards the fiscalisation obligation for self-service appliances, this obligation has been passed by law 1.1.2019 and it has been given a delayed effect of 2 years, 2 years for adjustment which now ends in 1.1.2021, and I have to repeat once again, what is required by law is not the issue of a fiscalized account, but also, as a matter of fact, software that, or apparatus that exists in a self-service device, that, when ordering coffee, cookies, is mentioned egg and milk products, so specific products, this software reports an impulse in the tax administration that the order and both of these types and nothing else has been made. And we have data that a good part of the alignment has been made, something has been said in public about the costs of these appliances, according to the knowledge that we have, therefore, for the necessary adjustment was up to 1000 kuna, with the Ministry of Agriculture, as far as I know, at a meeting where my colleagues from the tax administration, said that one part of it, mainly for milk and eggs, would subsidise. A total of 2 billion kunas is a heavy package. When you add what we've been doing so far, without untaxable receipts, over 8 billion 200, we're going over the amount per static model, of more than 10 billion kuna. discharges in the context of tax reform. [[Thank you. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12433	Let's go to the replicas there's plenty of them. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12434	Thank you very much. Minister, I support any reduction in the burdens and taxes, but I would say here that we are trying to find a model regardless of what is not taxed by the poorest there is no possibility of any more taxation they are freed to find a model to increase their incomes. I would ask you a question, in Croatia we have more than 500 parafiscal duties, so bizarre some that you can't believe that it burdens even our farmers that they have to pay for a document that says the number of cattle they have, that we don't talk about the tourist community is being paid for, that means the burdens that burden our citizens, can you say when you're going to reduce them? And one very important question that our citizens expect, it's a question of disproportionate property. Here's where you brought the people from the IRS, can you tell me how much you've charged from the disproportionate property, and would it be better to go to changes to the IRS to speed up what's been taken away unfairly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12435	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12436	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, the first subject of today's debate is tax changes, but I also support your replica as well as the recent reasoning of the break, not only if necessary, I think it is necessary, and it is good that not only on tax discharge, it opens up additional themes and non-taxable, what we call parafiscal duties, but also other administrative discharges, all expensive to be in function and focused on what I think we can all agree on, but also on the trail of these sentences that I have said in the introduction to facilitate and improve the business climate in the Republic. As for the disproportionateness of property, there were among other issues and parliamentary issues, if I do not arrive at one of the following replicas, so we follow the statistics of the number of procedures launched, the solutions adopted, the disproportionate and tax obligations in the following replicas, I will explain them in numbers, and you will see what the results of the Tax Administration are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12437	Second replica of my colleague, Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12438	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Minister Maric, however, has no doubt that the five-stage package of tax reforms is one of the most comprehensive, most concrete and valuable public policy reforms that we have ever had in the last ten or fifteen years, especially when this reform takes place in its fifth phase in the time of the most economic and health crisis in which Croatia has been found, but also in the global economic and financial environment. It is important to order, tax revenues in the context of tax revenues are growing, and the tax press is smaller and that is what has been done in the last few years. And the salary and the average salary and the minimum wage are constantly rising. And what's most important today in the time of this crisis to say, we today have more employees than we had before the crisis began. This is not only about reforming the tax system but about the overall economic policy, but tax reform is one of the pillars of that policy and it is something to be congratulated on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12439	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12440	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree, of course, with this assessment and the part that you said among other things that it was a tax policy task. What I have often liked to say in both HS and the public, where happiness is not so that all our problems and our problems can be solved only by tax changes and tax policies. However, tax policy must also contribute to the overall economic but also to the overall social situation and seek to facilitate conditions, to improve advances, etc., etc. And what you mentioned among other things within these current circles, and thus the overall tax reform from the first day was just intentional and some sort of emphasis to try to set as many spheres as possible both of society, economy or taxpayers. And you yourself know that we have changed practically all the laws in the tax system and tried according to fiscal opportunities to deploy the burden more evenly or evenly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12441	Thank you. Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I'm interested in the Income Tax Act still stands a 2% limit for interest rates, if it goes below it to be considered a receipt in nature. We are entering the EU interest rates are falling, I support it, I absolutely support it, and I believe that when we enter the European market, then Croatian citizens will also get a full satisfaction that housing loans will be at 1%. Now the question is, the banks say we'd cut the interest rate if the citizens had less than 2%, here the IRS says if it's below 2%, we'll tax you extra. Please consider until the second reading, I think it's a good policy to go, if we are already going towards the euro to remove these restrictions and that Croatian citizens can have interest below 2% and thus remove it from the banks so that they can approve without any addition in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12443	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12444	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, thank you very much for the replica or suggestion, of course we will also consider it on this subject and we have discussed both ourselves and in some previous discussions. Surely there should also be a focus in this area that, as you yourself have said well, that additional stimuli and incentives, and to further reduce the debt cost of capital therefore interest rates, this is that we have also made one big, large emphasis as the government of all these years, to take advantage of the benefits and circumstances of global trends, that it is also unrelated to the covid and before the covid of liquidity in the system a lot, but that total interest we pay is not just dependent on so-called. Reference interest rates and liquidity situation on markets as well as on risk premiums. By reducing these rates, of course, additional pressure is created to further examine such provisions, so we will certainly consider them. And you know for a fact that in some previous circles, we've already touched that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12445	Thank you. Now it's the representative of Demetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12446	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, income tax is the original and most significant income of cities, municipalities and counties, proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act, are they timely informed and given guidelines by the ministry to honour deadlines and budgets at local level? And the following is, since the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government is also changing, the question is what will be the effect of what. whether it will increase, decrease or those revenues will be zero because, according to our assessment, it may happen that municipalities and cities actually remain zero even though they are reportedly being announced an increase in income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12447	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12448	Thank you, well-respected representative, also for the replica and commentary. All these tax changes I repeat again are part of the electoral programme, are part of the government's programme and have passed public consultation. We conducted a direct dialogue with all these processes, for the first time on the subject of amending the law and supplementing the Finance Act in Gospić, at a meeting with the mayors and representatives of the associations of cities and communities of municipalities, and then there were bilateral meetings, meetings and I personally conducted several meetings. They were representatives, or I won't tell everyone now, but I'll tell the positional and opposition parties to say so, and we've introduced them to these amendments and this proposal that we're going to do. At 2 billion kuna, this measure we're talking about is even a little bit above that. According to our calculations, calculations like the case and so far no one will go any worse, of course some will go better, but that should be added to those previous changes in the first 2 years 3 billion 350 million kuna more income from income tax than before the change. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12449	Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12450	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I welcome every tax discharge I would just like this to be a little more concrete, and for example, once every four years we see you here and say that you're going to go to 10% and that practically state spending is going to be reduced there, too. I would also like to point out that we are on the competitiveness scale of the 60th of 63 economies, so I'm wondering which direction you think our situation will now improve. Also, the central state continues to spend most of the i.e. has the highest income, the largest expenditures around 80%, units of local and regional self-government are around 20%. around 7% of GDP, and the City of Zagreb around 2.6, whether these tax changes will change that more than I think they will in principle continue to credit the state in a way. And now, through these tax changes, might it change a little bit, do you think that's a step in the right direction? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12451	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12452	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I also agree with your replica and answer even though I have to admit you know that if I started from the first part already looking at it like this in the assembly plus, of course, colleagues who are in other rooms or virtually this, I'm not sure that everyone would agree because as much as I know, there are suggestions that are just going to introduce additional rates to make it even higher as we say the progressiveness in the income tax system itself. But in any case, what's important is that tax discharge is still still, not only at first or earlier stages, but it continues. So, to influence the reduction and yourself, in this way the state puts on itself an additional pressure to rationalise and even more rational and responsible relations to taxpayers' money, so what you're talking about as well as me, and that's the expenditure side of the budget. And that's also one of the major ones I would say is the well-being of tax reform and so is this circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12453	Now it's MP Dark Taritash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12454	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, you know very well that when you were in that former assembly, or in the former government, we discussed it on several occasions, and we had amendments like that, which is what it's really about. About the fact that we don't have VAT on real estate sales for the first real estate. It turned out to be a good measure before, you're in one of the reforms that was back a while ago, you remember well that we had a bunch of amendments, we debated a lot of it, and I've had the chance to hear that it's thinking of coming back again or that there's no VAT traffic again for the first real estate. Do you really think about it, if you think about it when you think it would be time to introduce it for the simple reason it was really a good measure, you have to agree that it had a foothold especially for our young citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12455	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12456	Thank you. Thanks to the well-respected MPs, so in that first round we talked about it, you know, and yourself, it wasn't our intention to go in some kind of negative way towards our citizens in particular to the younger population, but it was part of a package of total simplification of the tax system, and we're not just talking about the sales tax of real estate that you pulled, but also some other forms we remember the real estate tax itself, but I'm not going to talk about it now about real estate tax. Although this relief for the purchase of the first apartment was lifted, the tax rate was reduced first from 5 to 4 and then from 4 to 3. The proposal, i.e. the Government Programme, states among other things that, during the term of office, we will fully abolish that rate. With all due respect to you and your replica, you know for yourself when we talk about the real estate market that it's ungrateful to speculate with deadlines because it has a normal effect and impact on the market itself and trends there. as it stands in the course of the term of office. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12457	Now it's MP Vidovic Kristo's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12458	Thank you very much. This amendment to the VAT Act, Mr. Maric, is unfair because it simply ignores the needs of the moment. You didn't appreciate the caterer's scream, for example. which begs to reduce VAT to catering services. That's embarrassing. Are you even aware of the dramatics in which our caterers are located? A number of EU countries have reduced the VAT rate for catering services you did not do, you and Plenkovic obviously have no empathy for honest workers, but obviously you have for individual wind power plants that you can hardly fill your pockets with.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12459	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12460	Thank you very much, I will call you distinguished MPs, thank you very much for your replica and comment. The catering and catering topics have been recognised throughout the entire range of tax changes so far, however, the specific theme of value added tax on supplies or serving meals and drinks, you know that in the past round we have reduced the service, but for the drink it remained at that height of the general rate and that is the topic we have elaborated in the first round, and in all others. As far as this is concerned, the references you speak at the current moment, so I think it's quite clear to you that this very segment of hospitality has been a user of measures to encourage and maintain and preserve jobs all this time. The first three months were a horizontal approach to payment of salaries of 3,250 and 4,000 kuna to all, and the measures that continued further were more sectoral nature, particularly for those most affected by the covid, and these are also hosts among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12461	Now it's time for Parliamentarian Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12462	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Ministers, we see that this 5th package of tax reform weighs 2 billion kunas if we assume that the previous 4 were more than 8.2 billion kuna, but what I am interested in is what has been done in the last 4 rounds in terms of untaxable incomes, and how has this contributed to improving the standards of our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12463	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12464	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's exactly the untaxable receipts that I said the same thing earlier, it was our intention that, through changes in tax legislation, our citizens who have lower incomes and who don't even pay income tax by the height of these incomes. I'm going to repeat another million and 800 out of 2 million and 800 taxpayers at this point are not paying income tax. Therefore, any change in tax rates, classes or anything related to the income tax system may not affect their improvement in their net salary or improvement. That is why we have entered the untaxable benefits that, as I said, first raise or introduce an additional 5,000 kuna for the prizes, then for the accommodation, then for the diet, then for the supplementary and additional insurance, and for the kindergartens, the last covid tests or vaccines. Only figures, 3 billion and 900 2018, 6 billion and 100 2019, so far this year 4 billion and 300. When we talk about the number of people That is, we are talking about hundreds of people. [[Intruder: Thank you]] thousands of Croatian workers, or citizens. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12465	Now it's my friend Begonja's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12466	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. With all the congratulations to the government that in this difficult time is actually going to this 5th, 5th round of tax reform, I would ask you to, namely, create an impression with these concerns, when we talk about income, only on non-performing work, so would I ask your elaborate once again to which types of incomes apply these measures of the 5th round? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12467	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12468	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It refers to everything of course, we are talking about these rates that are within the law, but therefore it does not only apply to the indeterminate work as you have said well, but also to those types of income which, in terms of legislation, are, as we say, not in final income, so those who pay this on income from assets or capital. All of it, the entire rock that's in existence is shrinking so much. If the rate was 24 going on 20, if it was 12 going on 10, so we're taking over the entire system. And apropo of this effect that you have said only out of the total 2 billion kunas that relate to the total heavy change package in the income tax system, a billion 680 according to our calculations refers to non-permanent work, the remaining nearly 300 million are currently related to independent work. And I think we should particularly apostrophe through these discussions because we rarely neglect The status of our craftsmen. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12469	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12470	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. One of the main objections to this 5th round of tax reform is that you, with this circle and the package of laws, go exclusively in favour of those citizens who have high wages. How is this package of laws practically part of the full tax reform that you started before the 4th year 2016, I am interested in Mr. Ministers if you have the data now, how have these 4 rounds and the tax reform package so far affected those citizens who have the lowest wages, and how has it affected those who have relatively high salaries? And do these salaries and those small and big ones only have an impact on income tax or do the minimum wage or influence and personal deductions, the untaxable part of the income, so would you please explain this a little bit if you have the data?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12471	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12472	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's a very good subject. We know for ourselves that in some previous circles of this reference to who better or how only one general sentence passes, income tax is not the one that defines the height of the salary, the height of the salary defines the contractual relationship between the employer and the employer. The income tax, or its legislation, defines how much of the contracted salary is taxed and indirectly cut. But you're right that not only by tax changes in the income tax system and some other tax changes, if you cut the profit tax, let's say for 700 million kuna, the disbursed economy in terms of reducing the profit tax rate. These 700 million kunas are good entrepreneurs and employers, among other things, spilling into an increase in employment and wages. On the other hand, as well as a minimum wage element which is not the subject of our tax legislation but is government decisions, we heard the government's final decision for next year and, ultimately, still untaxable receipts. Official statistics of the State Statistics Institute best spoke, the first decimal of those lowest salaries increased by 39%, by 1,050 kuna. Last decimal for 15.7% for 1,400 kuna, when you're looking at today compared to 2016 [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12473	Now it's time for fellow Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12474	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Minister, the discharge that will amount to more than 10 billion kuna for our citizens and businessmen must be well and commendable. When it comes to the fiscalization of oil, milk, eggs, I must say that I am glad that the Ministry of Agriculture has accepted my initiative and will help farmers, and has provided financial resources for it. Since VAT calculation within Croatia is not transferred to the final product but must be paid, for this amount Croatian agriculture and the processing industry is more expensive than the goods coming from the EU. You have been fully justified during this crisis by helping the construction sector by actually making it possible for VAT to be transferred by tax obligations, and I wonder if you plan to do so from the agriculture and processing sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12475	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12476	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we had one of the similar comments in public consultation and I think it is just as well explained, so a complete, of course, horizontal approach to the transposition of the directive is valid in Slovenia or Austria as it is in Croatia. We heard and realized that there are few false interpretations that it is more convenient to go to Slovenia to buy than in Croatia, by the same logic things should actually come to the Slovenian agricultural producer to buy. So, it's not the topic of liquidity, we are willing to do so in the context of our dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture and Resort Chambers and Associations to explain this whole topic that it is not just about liquidity issues. However, when you've already touched these machines, let me just say, so I won't be able to make it now, of course, but it should be clarified that we're talking about 82 registered milk and eggs in the entire Republic of Croatia right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12477	Now it's time for my colleague Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Tax burdens, and there are indeed many of them have always been a burden on our entrepreneurs so that certainly discharging them in this sense as a parliamentary representative should be welcomed. The package of these measures of the 5th round of tax reform, in line with the possibilities and budget and the current economic situation, provides the possibility of further strengthening and restoring entrepreneurship, the economy and as such is really needed by the Croatian economy. However, you said earlier in your debate what is most important to this reform, I would dare say that it is also a revolutionary move, your move, you see the light at the end of the tunnel, and this is debt slavery for both a large number of citizens and an entrepreneur who will achieve a way for banks to write off claims against debtors to be tax-recognizable expenditure so that they will bypass claims by agencies so I welcome the move.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12479	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12480	Thanks to the well-respected MPs both on the replica and on this commendation, I think that this is a good topic and what we have seen in recent years, the government has reacted on several occasions with certain legal changes, but we have generally dealt with those already inherited problems, in this way we look both proactively and preventively for the following situations. I repeat again, especially for those citizens who are not by their own faults, who are given the opportunity in some way. And what's most important and we clearly send a message and a credit institution, that write-off was final and one time was complete or partial, but at the time you make it, and when it's tax-recognition expenditure, how the credit institution erases that debtor and the debtor of that credit institution, let's call it that, from his balance sheet, which means that's exactly the incentive. And on these other demand buyout agencies, that's the same subject we've been dealing with the past few days, so there'll probably be conversations in the next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12481	Now it's time for my colleague, Vrkljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12482	Dear Mr. Minister and Prime Minister. Anyway, I support these measures that relieve the economy, but there's one thing you'd like to explain to me, so I think the general public will be very interested in that. According to official data from FINA for last year, companies in Croatia without a single employee had revenues of €26 billion, which is the health budget for the whole year, and I know that you spend a lot of money these days and are trying to stabilise the health system. So I'm interested in seeing these 26 billion kunas without any employee who's been incometing these companies, you've forgiven them and given them 3 billion kunas from the budget. I wonder what the occasion was, why did you think so to forgive 3 billion kunas to companies without employees?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12483	Thank you. Comrade Vrkljan, please stick to the line. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12484	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, thank you for the replica and the comment and good news that we are also raising this topic to the space of discussion in HS, however. Our legislation allows us to function among other things, assuming that there are no abuses. FINA's data is up-to-date, she publishes it, you've also well quoted it on the trail and all of the tax authorities from the IRS to the rest of the others may have to control the segment further. So we cannot say for all of them that immediately there is some kind of doubt because it is possible to operate or do business and in this way legislation allows, however, if we see and I can tell you that our focus and emphasis may be more placed on them than on someone else is there we can always expect some possible irregularity. And this part of me didn't fully understand where we forgave those 3 billion, but then we'll do it in some other inerts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12485	Now I'd like to ask my colleague, Juricev Marinchev, for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12486	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. In your presentation, you also spoke of untaxable benefits that employers can reward their employees and thus stimulate them. I think it is interesting that in this year 2020, as many as 538,000 employees of our fellow citizens were rewarded only on the basis of a reward for work results of over a billion and 333 million kuna. This data is enough to say that even in this 2020, even in the year when the Republic of Croatia and the world are shaking the health and economic crisis that such preconditions have been created that more than 38,000 of our employers can only reward their employees on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12487	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12488	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad that here's the third or fourth time we've raised this subject as well. My colleagues from the IRS are well remembered when we discussed this internally, so when you look closely at this, this is not a perfect measure because you're making it possible to pay some forms of income, income or similar without public giving, but at the same time aware of these facts we've been engaged in expanding the scope of non-taxable receipts precisely for reasons, if I'm going to remind us all together, maybe now this seems to be far away, the covid is a predominant topic for the past 7, 8 months, but not long before the covid itself is the key problem is anything you ever do when you interview among other entrepreneurs, so the lack of labour force and in general way and how to stimulate the increase of these salaries that we have and retained labour, that we don't leave, and that we attract another. This was one of the other species where we gave one additional incentive to pay extra income and receipts without paying public fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12489	Thank you. Now it's Comrade Tomasevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12490	Thank you. So, in your explanation of the amendments to the Income Tax Act, you have made your aim a more socially fair tax system, so explain to me, wouldn't it be more socially fair if you introduced more income tax rates so that at a lower rate those who have lower salaries pay, and at the highest rate those who have the highest wages? And tell me how it's socially fair in this crisis to go tax-cutting someone with 100,000 kuna gross salary per month knowing what we're going to need in the budget to protect the weakest in this society, means for social transfers and that they won't be able to make up for just new debt and savings in the budget that we absolutely stand for?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12491	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12492	Thank you very much, distinguished representative, both on the replica and on the commentary. As of the first day, this is exactly what the colleague said, so when you compare official state statistics very clearly by dividing the income groups into quarters or decimals, you can see that even in relative and even in absolute terms there are not much lagging behind, but in relative terms, the highest growth was precisely that minimum wage. However, as we have said, we want to take the tax changes as widely as possible, and so is the complete system, but only by the amount of tax rates. We here today speak from 24 to 20 from 36 to 30, we currently have about 5% of the taxpayers who will pay and pay zero, these are our young ones up to 25 years old. I have to say that some local leaders have filed constitutional charges against that measure, but we'll talk about it later. Then we have about 31% so other young people up to 30 years, pensioners, assisted areas that pay 12.60% who pay 24, 1% less than 1%, which pay 36%, so less than 7,000 payers, or 36% in class.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12493	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12494	I'm also troubled by the work of students actually. In fact, it is currently taxable if I am not wrong or untaxable up to 15,000 kuna the work of students, and to that extent they are also a relief to their parent. When he earns 15,000 kunas, he starts taxing, which I think is actually just because then there are strong abuses and everything else and it needs to be taxed. However, when a student crosses those 15,000 kunas afterwards is no longer a relief to his parent, and those 1,250 kunas he earns per month... it is not enough for him to study. A parent lost, and a child lost enough. Have you thought about any other model that would help students and raise their standards?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12495	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12496	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Also a very good and important topic to be said about and discussed not only in response to the replica but perhaps wider. We have in some previous changes you know and have ruled out some of the fees that students and students either through work, whenever we encourage excellence, you know yourself that scholarships don't get into this censorship that we're talking about, but census must exist because eventually is a student learning or working. So, we don't destimulate the student's work, he has to learn and take his own exams, but he's also open to learning, but according to some rules and garners. So this kind of threshold is where you're talking about the 15,000, but we've ruled out a whole series of those benefits that just killed their parents in some way when they get a little over the scholarship that encourages excellence or some work that they've done professionally or similarly in some vocational schools and that kind of comes out of it. But you know we've done enough in that field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12497	Thank you. Comrade Mandaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12498	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In your presentation, you pointed out something about increasing the personal deduction that went from 2.600 kuna to 4,000, and how, consequently, this applies to dependent members, so you said it was also a contribution to demographic policy through tax policy. You stopped here at an example of income tax payer who had two children and said that 8.250 kuna seems to me a total deduction. But I'd probably go one step further, so I'd say in addition to that, the taxpayer with three children in the tax card, all who are the items and have a gross salary of up to 14,600 kuna don't pay income tax. The one with four children, there is thank God and those, all who have a salary of up to 20,600 kuna do not pay income tax. Is there any reason to consider increasing these deduction coefficients for people who have a large family and four, five, and more children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12499	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12500	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am also very glad that you raised this topic, in that first round, don't judge me for it, but it was unfairly neglected in our discussions and in HS, it was among other things a contribution of tax policy and demographic renewal because by raising these coefficients and mainly by more progressiveness in terms of better and higher tax relief for more numerous families, we gave a very clear message. Of course, on this trail we are still thinking, and we are always open and ready for dialogue, although I must admit that some of the representatives I see here have opened the theme of the abstention system in some previous iterations. And some of our expert working group members and we talked internally that at some point this whole system might be completely restructured so that we do not have a reduction in the tax base but a reduction in the tax liability. As long as the progressivity in income tax is coloquial, It's a fact that not all children are worth the same [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in the sense of taxpayers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12501	Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12502	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I would point out once again the importance of the changes you have introduced by amending the Income Tax Regulation, which primarily applies to all those prime ministers of voluntary retirement insurance who, up to 6 thousand kunas have the right to pay their employees so-called. the third pillar on which it can still be obtained, each obligor another 15% and certain these, supplements, or state support on what is paid as such. In addition, there is additional, or additional health insurance of up to 2.5 thousand kuna, which can then greatly increase the actual prevention of certain diseases that occur in today’s conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12503	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12504	Thank you, well-respected MPs, also, for your contribution to this debate on non-taxable receipts, here is only one information regarding the additional and additional health insurance mentioned. This year, up to this time 2601, the applicant, therefore, for 90 649 of his employees the amount of 42 million 837 thousand untaxable receipts is precisely for that purpose. So, the expansion, again, of these untaxable receipts has opened up a space for additional payments, incentives and rewards to its employees, that among other things, I say, an imperfect measure in the tax sense, but in some broader economic social sense, it certainly has its effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12505	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12506	Dear Ministers, in accordance with the fundamental principles of criminal law, that crime must not be paid, that property acquired by criminal acts must be taken away, you are grateful in this reform proposal, the Tax Code, the Colloquial saying, the Independent Sector for Financial Investigations, raised to the level of legal definition, and that is positive and stick to it because you have two important elements in your authority, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Taxation. These are the most important instruments in an anti-crime struggle. However, it is not good that in my opinion, in the opinion of the Croatian Sovereigns, you put in this reform the task of taxing only 60% of the criminal property acquired, which has been established because we believe that at the same time in front of the judicial authorities it exists in 100%... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I suggest To raise your rate to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 90%. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12507	Comrade Sacic, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12508	Thank you, Your Honor, and here, I also have to thank you for this first part of the replica that you recognized, it's not quite as common a case, it's usually alluded to something else that we've done wrong about this Independent sector, but here, I'm glad that there are those who recognize that we've made a good step in an institutional sense, but also de facto, I'm going to refer, and I owe it to my colleagues from earlier on to these figures. Let me explain, so this is for no, established disproportionateness between assets and receipts. If something is acquired by a criminal part, it's not even the subject of this, it's being taken away, so it's some other legislation, among other things, that defines it. Here we're just saying that someone can be found disproportionately, there's no legitimate reception, but it doesn't have to get some criminal part, so in that context, it's taxed at this rate, and the criminal and other proceedings are, of course, separate from this tax legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12509	Now it's MP Peovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12510	Good afternoon. First of all, if it was in your head, meaning social sensitivity and overcoming social inequality, then it's unclear how the same thing, almost the same thing we tax those with six thousand and 60 thousand kuna. You said progress, progress was kept in the very fact that 2/3 of people don't pay taxes. But 2/3 people don't pay taxes because they're poor. It's not called progressive taxation. In the Americas in the 1950s, tax for the richest was 95%. Today we have 51 thousand people who have 75 billion kuna in banks. It's six years of contributions, or income tax that we're going to collect from, obviously, people who have very no income. So progress is not tax-freeness because tax-freeness is linked to poverty, but progressive taxation is really an increase in rates towards the richest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12511	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12512	Thank you well-respected MPs and for your replica and contribution to the debate. Here, I'm just going to refer to myself a little while ago, we heard among other things and the suggestions that we go complete flat, you're advocating much more progressiveness, that is, introducing more rates, so in some way, it makes the conclusion that the tax system is obviously quite important, very complex, and, of course, like many other topics, we're not going to have the unisoned thinking and seeing the whole situation, but I'm going to repeat again, so through all these tax changes, not only these in the 5th round, but also, it's really intentional, and I think that the figures here are the best showing, I'm going to take care of as much as possible, in terms of fiscal possibilities, to translate them into tax discharge. We in tax reform started with the thought of improving the system as such, simplified, more transparency and so on, but with budgetary steps and improvements we opened up constant spaces for additional discharges and that's what we do. But here, we see for ourselves, and it's good that you say and all the others say, That, among other things, we face some arguments and think about [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Different things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12513	Now, two of my colleagues are going to be talking to the video. The first one's a co-worker's trip, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12514	Hello, do I hear from you? Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable fellow MPs and MPs and respected citizens. [[- Yes, and we see.]] Dear Ministers, we have one question, so these days, the tax administration has asked for small and micro entrepreneurs and directors of the company to pay the difference in contributions for 2019, if they were employed on less than full time and on less than prescribed basis.../ The speaker is not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12515	But if he's frozen, I know what he's asking, so I can answer anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12516	Our question is, will you seek the content of this disputed solution and bring perhaps a change to the Law on Contribution that you have brought in 2019, which would exclude both micro entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs from this Contribution Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12517	Thank you. We haven't heard one piece of the replica, but a colleague, or Minister Maric, has realized, as far as I understand it, what it is, so I hope you will give an answer to your line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12518	That's right, thank you very much, Your Honor. It is, I realized, it is the solutions issued that should have been issued even earlier in the year, but because of the covid, we have moved the deadline and issued these 23923 solutions, with the fact that on behalf of the personal and tax administrations, an apology must be sent to the pensioners and to all our fellow citizens who are on maternity leave, and they have been granted solutions, according to official duty, those solutions are repealed. So we're talking about some 19 and some thousands of solutions that went towards those changes that went into effect for 2019. I'll do it again, we're talking about the basis for calculating health and pension contributions. So one piece of information just to tell you, and then I'm going to say in some of the next interactions on how many people there are, so all of those that have a coefficient of 0.8 and below, so relative to the base. When you look only from the prism of pension insurance the lowest pension the state guarantees is getting more than they pay, so we have to. speak according to the concept and principle of solidarity and justice [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12519	A colleague of Kujundzic is currently out of touch, so he will try to contact him on the phone with our service, and by then we will go to the other two replicas. First up, she's a colleague of Nemet's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12520	Dear Minister, I would like to know why, as part of the proposed amendments to the Tax Act on additional value, it is not a proposal to reduce VAT on tourism when we know that it is taxed at two rates, which is 25% and 13% and we know that your statement that VAT in tourism is generally 13%, which is not acceptable to me. Dear Minister, will it and when the VAT on tourism will be reduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12521	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12522	Thank you very much, Your Honor. All right, a little bit, now, if I'm somewhere clumsy about this, I'll say it now. So, GRO services in tourism are at a reduced rate, so complete, accommodation services organized and similar to 13%, supplying and serving food in and outside catering facilities is also at a reduced rate, only it's not serving drinks, right? I think we're clear then, so if there were any misunderstandings before we could clear it up. So, we're talking about an important segment of Croatian society and economy, like some others, we're talking about, it was a little while ago and, and another replica on the subject of some kind of deadlines and speculating whether or not it will, at this point we wouldn't talk about it, but I'm going to repeat again, for the catering and tourism sector in the whole series and tax changes in the context of tax reform, and some others are focused on giving some additional stimulant to a very pro-pulsive industry or part of the economy of the Republic, and I'm going to say again, not only and we're not going to put All the eggs in the same basket. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12523	In the meantime, I see a screen and a colleague of Kujundzic, I welcome him, and you're up for the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12524	Good morning Chairman, good morning fellows. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you two questions, actually, why has the government not yet responded to the motions of MOST that are in fact wanted and wish to abolish mandatory members of the HGK and the HOK? And second question, do you think that the debt collection tax procedure should be public since no one has ever announced what the particular state has done to collect debt from the debtor, nor has anyone systematically tackled the analysis of the debtors themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12525	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12526	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The first part of the replica is also mentioned earlier, the subject of parafiscal non-taxation is not the subject of these today's debates, but in any case, well to discuss it, not only the membership of the Chamber of Commerce, but also a whole series of others, so the subject will certainly be shown by the government of course to your question. And I'm going to use your replica to further explain that information to your colleagues from the same club. So, we shared some period of 2010-2015, 2016-2020, so that it wasn't just some political implications. So, in the '10-'15 period. A total of 1482 procedures for the determination of disproportionate property, 207 solutions and 47 solutions per year respectively have been initiated. On average, a disproportionate ratio of 298,807,00 kuna and 134,375,00 kuna respectively has been established. From 2016 on a yearly 50 solutions with an average disproportionate of one million and a half and a tax liability of 643.000,00 kuna Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12527	And let's go to the last line, colleague Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12528	Dear Minister, this one we also support everything, all tax discharges that will give our citizens a better life. However, it is often these tax reliefs that go to the burden of local budgets, which increases the centralisation of the state and the increasing disproportionateness between the state budget and the budget at local level, so I wonder why it is not considered to be e.g. One part of the VAT, so let's make it a symbolic 2%, bring it down to symbolic, at, at the level of cities and municipalities, and thus go into a more decentralised development. [[Intruder: symbolic]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12530	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm sorry, I had to joke a little bit, but I'm glad you brought that up among other things. Once again, this part of the tax reform as well as so far everything except measures for young people is either directly compensated by some measures or a more systematic approach to amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and thus this case. Although I must say, offered the information I received yesterday that a constitutional suit was filed by one municipality or city regarding the measure of youth, I must admit that this measure too, then we all need to think together and, above all, we are still sticking to what it is, because we all need to make some kind of contribution. You know very well that local self-government has not been ignored and ignored, and we, as a government in this financial area, strongly advocate fiscal but also functional decentralisation. So, equally important two processes that have to go side by side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12531	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We've come to an end with replicas, so please return to your post, and I'll ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take your word for it. No, I don't. Then we'll begin the debate. I'm just asking the lady to wipe out our pay phone. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the first one will be spoken by a respected colleague, Grbin, and after that, a colleague of Lalovac, who shares 15 minutes, as I have announced for the clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12532	I thank the esteemed Mr. President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with his associates. In one thing you said, Mr. Maric, we must fully agree. Indeed, all the problems of our society cannot be solved by tax reform and that is absolutely correct. But also, tax reform should not create new problems, nor should tax reform encourage existing ones. And whether we want to admit it or not, there is a serious problem in Croatia, and it is called inequality, and as part of inequality, a serious problem of economic inequality. And this tax reform, this economic inequality, is going to get even bigger. Dear Mr. Maric, if I've heard you correctly, and I ask you to confirm that to me, you said that only 7,000 people pay taxes at 36%. So in the Republic of Croatia, only 7 thousand taxpayers pay the same rate at 36%, and we're going to cut that rate. By just seven thousand the richest, with the highest wages, we'll cut income tax. The minister said it would create a hole in the funding of 2 billion kuna. And how do we compensate that hole? From other tax revenues. So our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, regardless of their economic power, who may even be using their entire pension, disability or salary to buy circles, milk and other life supplies, through VAT will compensate for 2 billion kuna that will go out of the budget to reduce income tax by 7 thousand the richest in our society. It's respected colleagues and colleagues, HDZ tax reform. That's respected colleagues and colleagues, a double, double spread of inequality. On the one hand, by reducing tax costs to the richest, we increase their income, and on the other hand, we compensate the budget hole through VAT which will be paid by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the same rates regardless of their incomes. We in the SDP cannot and will not support such tax reform. Unlike some who spoke before us, we cannot support every tax discharge. We can support only and exclusively that tax discharge from which everyone or at least most of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will benefit. From this tax discharge, the real benefits will only be 7,000 of the richest. We, who are sitting in HS, will have members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but citizens who earn an average salary or pay less than the average, and such are the great majority in Croatian society, will not benefit from this. And that's why we in the SDP not only don't support this, but we're about to show, when we're not on the line proposed by the Government, that we have an alternative solution, today in the procedure, we've tabled a proposal to amend the Income Tax Act that would result in a discharge, but which would benefit most of those who pay income tax. A bill that would allow for the same reduction to be made for those who have an average salary, but also for those who have a parliamentary salary, where they would ensure that such money is passed in real consumption, and thereby for the growth of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, and not for the savings and pockets of the richest. Such tax reform, which spreads inequality and does not contribute to anything in society, except for the wealth of those who are already the richest, the SDP will never and can never support. I thank you for your attention, and further tax reform will be continued by my colleague, Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12533	Here's a colleague of Lalovac's, just before we wipe it out. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12534	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This part and tax changes are actually an integral part of the budget, so here I'm surprised by the purely small technical question, that we're going to be talking in two readings, and we're going to bring the budget before this second reading, which is exactly... is not in any conflict, meaning when a budget is adopted, behind this should not be any more tax laws because you always have a problem with that and technical nature, these tax laws may not go away, and then we have a problem with the budget, that is, it's a purely technical question, that this one, I know that you wanted to open the debate, but you should always watch when it's actually a budget, that it's a final document in this House, that there are no more discussions behind it, about any tax laws because they are composite, because that budget is based on these tax changes, is it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree in this part where the government is trying next year which is very challenging, the most challenging actually, even, I would say is even more challenging than in 2020 for the Croatian economy. More challenging, because in 2020 there was one shock that happened, not only in Croatia but in the whole world and there were different instruments to prevent it was actually a fight with the virus, so there were lockdowns, so there were different instruments of state interventionism to actually prevent it. However, 2021 is the most challenging year of all. Why? Because the government has to ensure conditions for economic growth, and we don't know what's going to happen to Covid. And that is the biggest challenge for Croatia. Yeah, while there was, while there was some kind of lockdown while there was some other kind of means where we were all actually in some kind of cramp, everyone was actually acting like we were actually talking about health problems. However, in 2021 it is the most challenging for the government and Croatia, why, because it must ensure economic growth from 4 to 5% in order to balance public finances in order to come into what we have been here in the first place until the European entry into the euro, however, we will have to do so in conditions where we do not know what it will be in 2021 as far as Covida is concerned. So we're going to have to take one of the measures that the government is proposing here to stimulate the economy are tax changes. So I have to admit and congratulate you on some work and courage, do we not know what will happen in 2021, we do not know whether there will be an increase, an increase in consumption, and we know that our increase in spending is the largest part of GDP, we do not know, and on the other hand, we know that we will have to make up for that part, make up for the budget of these 2 billion kunas that our colleague Grbin used to say. And that's why our proposal was, so our proposal was to go with a model that, we think, too, will encourage more consumption because they have more in this crisis, and now in 2020, it's shown that consumers are acting, as consumers behave, that citizens are afraid. Citizens are in fear and spending on the most basic foods bread, milk, eggs, the most basic foods spend all the part of, every part of the consumption even buying cars, investments, delaying, delaying and what is happening to us yesterday has actually shown us that our savings is growing strongly and that saving a small part of Croatian citizens of those somewhere around 50,000 Croatian citizens is growing strongly their savings, which is now unproductive. You know why it's unproductive because all that savings comes into banks, but the banks don't return that savings to the economy because we simply have a problem with lockdown banks that don't have, don't encourage the economy, and it's going to be very difficult in 2021 to boost the economy. In part, I agree, and this is the most important part of what I have said to the changes in the structure of the budget because we have revenues from Europe that will still encourage in that part of the consumption, but the majority will again refer to how to encourage the consumption of citizens or citizens to spend to be able to boost GDP, right. And because of that, our proposal was to raise the untaxable part to 5,000 kuna this 5,000 kuna. Furthermore, what's here in tax changes is, I don't think it's gotten that much on the table, I see that you actually tried to do it in 2016 by changing the profit tax where banks were given the possibility of tax relief or liberation to keep these bad jobs in banks from going to market. You yourself know that measure as good as it was that it didn't have any effect. And that's the problem that's being found that we can't just by tax changes as good as they are, we can't on the other hand have shown, I don't know if you have any data on how many banks they are, you've given them a one-time measure, you've given them a one-time measure now you're giving them a lasting measure. I'd be a little skeptical here, too, and maybe give them the same one-time measure for a year, see what they do. So this is commendable and well, you gave them, write down to the citizens all these debts that are now, we have 50 billion kunas of restructured debt in bank balances, that next year they are not on the debt market, because the worst thing that is happening to us in our society is that the investments that come outside with various agencies that have brought in Croatia 2 to 5 billion kunas are not investment in added value, in production, in employment. Outside the agency brought money to trade Croatian citizens' debts and it is dangerous for every economy. It means that when we became attractive in the Croatian market, those from Norway, Germany and others do not want to invest in the Croatian industry, in Croatian workers, in the production of added value but rather invest in agencies that will actually trade in debts that banks sell at 20% value. And that's not so much a problem right now that it's a billion or 2 billion kunas that have reached 30 to 40 billion kunas, up to 10% of gross domestic value. And it's now that danger where the government gives a boost here, but the saddest thing is that the government didn't participate in those debts, the government didn't participate, it's going to come back to settle those debts, it's going to come back, it's going to come back to us here in the assembly. What measures are we going to try to do that if we can't have enough incentive for the economy. As much as this tax reform is going if we get caught here in Croatia, a large number of Croatian citizens and we do not solve in that proud knot because most of the debts are still those debts that the banks have resold from the 2008 crisis. We now have new debts from 2019, 2020 due to the root crisis. And that's why I would give the banks only a year's worth of caution here to see with very strict control from the IRS, to see what they approved in fact made it easier for the citizens and whether there was a final write-off, whether there was a final write-off because we saw that the legal changes from 2016 failed even though it was a good and noble intention to make it. The banks did not respond to it, did not respond, and therefore I believe that the measure should be one-year-old if it is to be controlled every year, not given them a lasting measure without any possibility of controlling it. And that's what I think should be very careful here and monitor them there. And that's certainly our contribution to this debate and to say that next year will also be highly challenging to encourage consumption. What is certainly, along with one part of the citizens because we put everything on the consumption, it makes 60% of GDP, and that's the part where this part is, and what the minister has actually said in part by increasing, a wide range of non-taxable receipts, and that's where I can part of it and agree, but my people have one limit. It also has a certain limit because you know what we do with it, so we reduce our contributions and payments to the pension and health care system. And here we have to be careful, we can't have a wide range of giving over a billion kunas of non-taxable donations, and we know that our health system is minus 3 billion kunas, 4 billion kunas a year, our pension system is 18 billion kunas a year in minus, right, I'm just saying that we need to be very careful here, very careful eating and encouraging entrepreneurs to pay off the broad beauty of the non-taxable part of income itself crashes their health and pension system. I agree that it is a measure which will again, on the other hand, and should encourage consumption to return as regards the promotion of consumption and GDP, but is not an instrument that has unlimited action. It has in one part a positive action, but we must not, we must always look out for the pension and health system because it has now shown that the only dam of the pension and health system is VAT. The only hole that's in the pension system we're closing from the VAT. It's the only thing the minister is going to pay now with large-scale drugs exclusively from VAT, and that's what's very cautious and very slippery, and that's why I'm saying it's not easy to bring in under these difficult conditions, and we don't know how it's going to be in 2021 because, frankly, I'm saying it's not easy and I congratulate you on this part of courage, it's not easy, we don't know how it's going to be in 2021. Whether these measures that were under the conditions of the crisis, whether the same will work under Covid's terms, we don't know if the citizens are in Covid's terms, the psychology of the citizens is completely different from the conditions when they're not in that part of the crisis. And therefore, let's give stricter monitoring of these parts of citizens' debt and give about that part so that we can take ourselves at a quarterly level and discuss such decisions so they can act faster. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12535	Thank you very much. So now we're going to listen to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, then we're going to take a break of 10 minutes to air the room a little bit, and then we're going to move on. So, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists also two colleagues, the first one will speak to us with video of a colleague Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12536	Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12537	Yeah, let me talk to you, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12538	Okay, esteemed speaker of the assembly, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen, I would look back at two points in my presentation one will be a contribution and something that Mr. Lalovec has now touched, and the other point will be a reduction of income tax and we will try to link it all to a common story, see certain, certain sequential decisions both on macro-economics and on taxes and generally on the economy. As regards these contributions, the MOST Club agrees that they are extremely, extremely important and should be considered but on the other hand it is not the aim of, that micro-enterprises and those who are only at the beginning of women entrepreneurs to take them with certain fiscal measures at the beginning of their careers to disable them in business. So that's the same thing to consider. Therefore, since these companies, even in the medium term, even in the term of office of this Government, could then generate certain revenues which, through certain taxes, would then be returned to the Republic of Croatia's budget. So we don't think it's a good idea to start them off right away, to give them certain inducements, but to help them there. So these days at the peak of Covid's epidemic when many of our entrepreneurs, and especially those of the smallest micro and women entrepreneurs, so when they fight to survive, the IRS sent them solutions to collect the difference in contributions for 2019. Even before, MOST has warned of the harmfulness of these amendments to the Law on Contributions in 2018 and then we have proposed amendments that would require exceptions, not for all, but for certain groups, which are micro-entrepreneurs, then entrepreneurs of the beginner and female entrepreneurs, because we have seen that the increase in base will be too much cost that they could not survive under regular conditions, let alone the circumstances of the crown crisis and charge the difference between these most vulnerable groups per group of entrepreneurs who are initially considered not to be fair. And that the indicator that the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are detached from reality is at least those entrepreneurial daily lives because it is in the modern and most developed economies that entrepreneurs are the main generators of growth in the economy. And so we ask that the Government, along with an urgent package of tax laws, direct amendments to these laws on contributions and introduce exceptions to the system of accounting and collection of contributions for these three groups that we have brought here today, so micro, small beginners and women entrepreneurs. And they are, to be and constructive these proposals have been written and freely written before, available on our pages and the Government can only rewrite them and put them in the parliamentary procedure. I would still like to touch one thing that is almost as amazing as the situation in which we are in economics that the Government has not yet responded to us, to our proposal of the law on the abolition of mandatory, mandatory memberships of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, although this may not be directly related to these four laws, it is all connected to at least these entrepreneurs we are choking in all possible ways and for the reasons that you, these persons are not satisfied with the service that should be obtained from these two satellites from the Government of the Republic. Furthermore, even some budget money is spent on flyers, purses and gold catalogues at least in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and in today's time when the crisis is really big. The second point I would like to touch here is the tax reduction, the income tax from 36 to 30 and from 24 to 20, so if you look at the analysis, so the Croatian citizens were first to, to this law, burdened above all, and their work has been demoted, because if we are taxing them with high income rates, what we are sending a message to the market is that the work is not valuable in the Republic of Croatia and that it needs to be further discredited. Furthermore, once such a person in the Republic of Croatia gets the income available for, for consumption, or entrepreneur for further investment, then more of them are, then, that available income is additionally burdened with, I can say, free, almost the highest tax rates on, added value in Europe, which actually leads to the fact that Croatia is on average paying a lot more on the product than an average European within the European, EU. In that sense, reducing income tax what the government is doing at this point is commendable, no one is questioning it. Therefore, any tax discharge that could lead to a higher income available that will then affect, on consumption, so on personal consumption, above all, which is the most important contingent of VAT itself is praiseworthy. However, there is now one particular concern that we would like to warn as a MOST Club, which is, above all, going to be a certain and rather large budget gap for which it is a big question of how it will be financed. Furthermore, this fear is still instigated with, we must say, 30% higher, greater public spending than the last term, and we have seen that, based on this government consumption, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not live a little better, which means that we have two, two, two, two budget deficits that we will somehow have to complete and in what way we will do it, of course by borrowing. What is the problem is that these two budget deficits, and we hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken into account, will unfortunately have to pay the most socially vulnerable, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from their donations, that is what, what is our message. So, this, this, this, these two holes that have been made, one from income and the other with greater public spending that no one lives better today, will again come to the budget of the average family of the Republic of Croatia who will then have to pay, first with credit cards, through debts, in lending to the best man, just to survive that month. Here, that's two points I'd like to touch, so I'd like to leave it to Mr. Petrov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12539	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Petrov to continue the exposure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12540	Thank you, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the proposed 5th round of tax reform, I'd have a lot to say, but I'll stick to one thing. I'd like the respected HDZ colleagues to have a little less experience. I've heard that reform is assessed by a revolutionary move, so let's see how revolutionary it is. For starters, I'd like you to stop playing with percentages, to talk in absolute numbers because that's fairer and clearer. And when you say that the salaries of people with the lowest incomes have grown to over 25%, then you have to tell people how much money it is. ... No, I'll fix you. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] You said not only changing the Income Act, changing all the laws, taking all the measures into account, from the lowest salary, the minimum wage, everything, everything you have in the last 4 years, so you said, they were getting paid 1.050,00 kuna. And now I'm going to take one thing, you with one change of laws today, for those who have the highest wages, once by changing the law, one procedure you give 1,000 kunas more, and none of these last 4 years have been affected. What have you changed these four rounds of tax reform, they haven't profited? Well, I think so. Then you should say honestly that they did receive more, that's number one. Number 2, Mr. Maric, you said in an interview the average salary in Croatia grew by 760 kuna and that is a fair word, 760 kuna grew the average salary. With today's amendments to the law, some will grow much more than 760 kuna and 1,000 kuna, and that is fair to say. And let's not play with percentages, because only the average salary, the average salary in Croatia grew from 5,600 kuna to 6,500 kuna. It's said wow 16%, 16%, 25%, we're talking about pay, salary growth below 1,000 kuna, and in that we should always be fair. And yes, every discharge is good. I welcome every discharge and everyone needs to be cared for, but in this, I think we should be just and socially sensitive, we should try to make sure that everyone in our society has a chance to grow. We haven't all had the same starting positions in life, and that doesn't mean we're not equally valuable in society, and that's why we need to be just. What's a tragedy in everything and what I don't think is at all talked about is how much we live better because there's been a salary of 700 or 900 kuna, nobody's saying how much the average price of products that people buy in the last 5-6 years, how much inflation was, and then by the same state statistical office when you subtract numbers you actually see people living poorer today. Most people in Croatia live poorer today than they did 5 years ago. according to the State Statistics Office. You're saying it wasn't like that back then you didn't, then you didn't open the DZ for a long time. That's right. Take a look at the average basket that a man with an average or below average salary should spend on a monthly basis and his growth and wages in four years, and then you will understand that they spend more today than they spent four years ago. And that's fair to say and that's why we won't give up what we're asking for all the time, which is to increase, let taxes be reduced, welcome tax cuts, but give in income, pay, receive a monthly home budget to those who live worse and live poorer and can do so. And you don't have to tell me that you can't do it through this bill because they're certainly not tax-scarred and similar stories, so we know that, so here I've been in Parliament for four, five years telling me that story for four, five years, I know that, but you can take other measures. If I heard the minister say at one point, we're thinking about replacing tax relief when we're talking about children and child contributions for children with fixed amounts. Finally. The reason why, well, they're not if tax relief exists isn't all kids equal, they're not worth the same. That's right. And that's what we've been telling you for three years, and I said this this morning at the press, it's not fair, it's not fair that there are tax reliefs for children that those people who have higher wages to be denied more and that their child is worth more, it's not fair that this is why a low-income monetary child gets less money and turns out to be worth less. And now imagine this, you delete this, you give fixed cash amounts, you give one child 500 kuna, for another child 800 kuna, for the third child 1,100 kuna, and you increase it by giving that endangered group between 1,500 minimum and 2,500 thousand kuna, and you know what you're going to get in the end? You will get a happy family, you will get a family that does not want to leave Croatia because it can survive in Croatia. And believe me, whoever can choose whether to stay in Croatia for less than go to Ireland, Germany somewhere in the baustel will stay in Croatia, but give them a reason. Since 2017 we've been telling you the same thing, increase people's income by 1,500 to 2,000 kuna like this. And with this measure, you're going to cut the costs of just the ones that are now growing their wages the most, you're going to make the system fair. Every child will be worth the same, and you will give reason to stay in Croatia. And yes, I really hope that you will do it as you have announced, I hope that you will do it in this way and that you will do it justly because people deserve it. I'm not one of those people who talks doesn't need to worry about everything, but for those who live badly, they need to be worried about the most. These are our people, the people we meet today on the road that are with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12541	We've come to the end of these two exhibits, and as I announced, we'll take a break by 11.50. I'd like the service to clear the premises properly. It's 11:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12542	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:51 A.M.]] Now it's Mrs. Dark Taritash's turn to share time with Mrs. Puljak's IP, Smart and Glass Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12543	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. The Minister and his associates can't say hello if he's gone and fellow MPs who are in a small number, but what's here. So, a few days ago in the budget rebalancing debate, Minister Maric, I said that he can work, he can work as hard as he wants, but he is only one part of the government and changes in the tax system and the reduction of tax burdens must follow changes in all other systems of this country, especially those that are individually large budget consumers. Without being seriously restrained by the cost of this irrational and wasteful state, nor will the ministers who may hear or pass on a few of these sentences be able to implement the reform fully as he intended and wanted, nor will such an organised state be able to be a longer-term country with such and rebalanced budgets and budgets, and regardless of these reforms, the money leaks as if we were a bucket of water or as if the government had turned the water bucket upside down. These days we have a chance to see that the health care system is in serious trouble, financially I would say completely out of control, and what was done in this respect? Almost nothing. The peace system, which is in growing trouble, has been burdened with various rights and payments that have absolutely nothing to do with pensions earned through work. What happened in that regard? It's almost nothing, too. The key problem, of course, is the general structure of our economy, which we must be quite honest not to encourage, not to seek and provide jobs for highly qualified, highly educated and professional people. We simply have too few companies that create serious added value and have high profits and too few people who have high incomes. Without that change, no new tax reforms can be completed, and unfortunately our government, and here I'm not just talking about this really tough covid year but also those five years ago, and I'm going to be gentle because there's relatively little of us in this assembly, it didn't quite show up. This part of the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act concerning harmonisation with European directives are logical consequences of two related facts. The first is that we are part of a major single EU internal market that is constantly looking for ways to facilitate business and level playing field for all players on the market. We should never forget that, it's something we have to take care of, I'll repeat it once more, and that's ways of facilitating business and equating conditions for all players on the market. The other day when we had an imposter about Krsh-Paden, it just turned out that we actually always like to treat every player on the market differently. Another fact is that modern technology has turned upside down the way in which goods and services are done and tax systems have to adapt. And here, the key task is that within the single market, all have the same chances of doing business, i.e. having their wrong or late decisions or not recognising changes in the way legislators do not create imbalances on the market. We didn't have a number of times we talked here and about different commitments, we didn't have a number of times from this pay phone through some other laws we talked about when the state becomes a stepmom, not a mother, and therefore we always do everything that makes business easier, which gives us the same opportunity we'll all support and what we always need to stress, we need to emphasize what's positive, so we think that the proposaler's assessment is correct and that it won't in any way reflect on the total revenues of the state budget, and that's the threshold for taxation at the charge of what went from 7.5 to 15 million. It seems to me that this VAT collection in realised accounts is something that should generally be good and that should ultimately really be taken into account and not just tied to some revenue but end this story differently. I repeat once again what I asked the minister, there was a good measure in this country to buy the first real estate, so the first real estate when the purchase was released from paying real estate tax. And then the minister, this same minister Maric, abolished that measure by explaining that the system is working, that systematically it has to be so, that it can't be, we've had a bunch of amendments and told my people if we have something good, this country can't go forward if everyone starts every time we start over. If we have something good, give it a hold and move on. But we have other customs, and this has also proved that this measure has been removed, and since the election program of this government and the party leading this government has been the return of it, it would be good to do so as soon as possible. The fact is that any such measure related to the real estate market makes some new situations and some new story, but this is one measure that was good in the long run. Because what and this set of laws, which we send when, therefore, according to both the local population and investors and the investors, we, the whole time they come to us, don't really know whether they play handball or football or basketball, they're told to play handball, then over time they say, no, no, we're confused, you play basketball. What am I saying? Maura, we should really do this set of measures with clear tax policies, but I'm afraid we're a long way from that story. There's one thing I'd like to miss before I miss Mrs. President's pay phone. Puljak, I want to point out, and that's, we've had bad loans, the banks have been dealing with these bad loans by selling to suspicious agencies, this is one of the things that's kind of reduced. But what we need to take into account, which is an emergency, which is to define a clear supervision of such companies that are expensive, who buy really for small money, and then our fellow citizens become long-term really hostages of some perhaps even reckless own decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12544	Thank you, too. Now it's the House Movement Representatives' Club. Then what? [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, Mrs. Devereaux. [[Intruder: Puljak]] Pule that, second part of the time, go ahead. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12545	All right, thanks to the chairman. At the beginning of my part of the exhibition, I want to note to all of us that Croatia is the second poorest country in Europe, so according to real individual consumption of citizens, so we stand on the scales, and the goal we should, I should say, should be to create a richer society, so that all citizens are richer, that one doctor, programmer or engineer in Croatia earns as or at least very close as a doctor, programmer and engineer in Ireland or Germany. Of course, we also want them to make a lot of money for cashiers in supermarkets as well as for colleagues in developed countries. Some of us, here we have heard here today, I would say new populists remember how to tax the rich more. However, according to their definition, these rich people are, for example, rich people. Here are the doctors, engineers, IT employees who create additional value, and this additional value can create anywhere in the world and are already out of Croatia with one foot. And in order not to go and join that black list of 10% of the working population that left Croatia, we must give them favourable working conditions in Croatia, allow them to live here the normal life they would have in any advanced country of the world. Now, what kind of tax system do we need? The smart tax system is publicly responsible, clear, easy, predictable and fair, fosters growth and employment, and provides funding for the country's social and development functions. This system also allows prudent taxation with a reduction in tax burden, and is based on a reduction in income taxation with a programme of incentives for children and young people and a reduction in income tax to boost economic growth. Experts also say that the best tax system is the one that is stable. It does not experience frequent changes, additions and exceptions because frequent changes in this system create actually great uncertainty in the planning of any job, and so ultimately it blocks investment. The many imposes on entrepreneurs today, we heard here today there are about 600 parafiscal burdens, asphyxiation is actually economic activity, destimulating and discourageing the opening of new jobs, and because of whether it is necessary to reduce the total tax and non-taxable burden. So here is the 5th round of tax reform. Also, some experts say that this is not really a reform, no matter how many circles we have had because the importance of the tax system has not actually changed, but we have changed some parameters in that system, so we have changed the rates down in income tax, we have changed something in consumption, etc. We also don't have, say experts, that we don't have any detailed information about what the effects of the previous circles, previous changes to the system, whether the forecasts were good, whether they achieved what was planned, what was planned was achieved, if not why they didn't. So here are the most significant changes we are talking about today in the income tax and income tax system. Croatia, as I said, is lagging behind almost all economic indicators for other EU members. The countries with which Croatia competes have a lower income tax rate and simply Croatia is not tax-competitive. Business destination loses jobs, loses experts and workers. In such a situation, any possible growth of net wages is something to be welcomed. This could enable the attracting and retaining of talent or of those employees with a high level of knowledge and skills that can work and be employed anywhere in the world. It will also strengthen this middle income group, and we keep it, as I said, doctors, IT sector experts, medical staff, managers, engineers, so all others who have these competitive skills, who can compete in any other country. One note when we talk about pay costs, which is about contributions, is also mentioned here. Therefore, the contributions to pension and health insurance in most cases account for a significantly higher share of the total cost of pay compared to the share of wages on taxes and taxes, which account for as much as 30% of the total wage cost, which means that without reducing the contribution, there is no significant burden on labour costs. And now the question is, how do we even reduce these, those contributions in today's state and health care and pension system, right, we heard in how many billions of losses are both? The answer again is that, therefore, the problem is ineffective in both systems and without significant reforms and pension and health systems, the burden of work will remain high, and thus our workers will be uncompetitive in relation to neighbouring countries. Therefore, all of this calls for a much more courageous and determined move towards change, an urgent, comprehensive reform of the systems of non-taxed parafiscal giving that additionally burdens business. We were also suggested that we were, and I asked in my first question at the current prime minister's class why the memberships for HGK and HOK don't go away, then the prime minister just smiled so sweetly, the written answer we got was the guy, here we are about to do it. In addition to parafiscal donations, there is therefore a need for serious reforms of the public system, health, pension and public administration. Therefore, there is also a need to reduce the cost side of the budget, but also this way, this tax reform says, will have a fiscal impact of 2 billion kuna on local self-government, neutralising that impact on local self-government should not go to any compensation measures from the state budget because then we did nothing but need to rationalise this massive sector. We will soon be a country with 3 and a half million inhabitants, we cannot withstand 556 municipalities and 20 counties. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12546	Thank you, too. Now it's the Homeland Movement, Homeland Movement Club, Vidovic Kristo, Vukilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12547	Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely difficult to discuss amendments to the law in HS after last Tuesday and the debate on the veteran Krš-Paden on which the ruling structures have unequivocally demonstrated impudence by ordering the public that the laws are not of value to us. Because as St. Augustine would say, a state that doesn't respect its laws is nothing but an organized gang. Disrespect of the law, i.e. their selective application is the main cause of corruption and social injustice, poverty, etc. Because of this corruption, we have high taxes and burdens for citizens, and we are not economically competitive. It is known for the case of the island of Smokvica, which was in the concession of Ivica Todorovic, which was 20 years old. He didn't pay the fee, and he had a debt to the state of $200 million. The tax administration didn't even try to charge the debt, and the state was working parallelly with him and giving him property invaluable. When doing business like that, it's logical that taxes for ordinary mortals must be high. But we will continue through the high VAT to raise funds in the common register, and then Zdravko Marić will finance the fugitive entrepreneurs with the same means, as in the case of Krš-Pajena or communist red managers like those of Pulski Oljenik and there is the heart of the problem. Minister Maric, a man of the system from Sanader, Todorovic to Plenkovic, has no mercy in the execution of inhumane, unfair and economic bad policies if the authorities command him to do so. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act. The debate on the same well-intentioned association included the Czech associations such as the HOK or individuals who constructively and logically reasoned their proposals. However, there is a folk proverb that says that a full of hunger does not believe, which is fully confirmed here. Who are fed up in Croatia we all know. Those who rule alternating SDP and HDZ, and their apprentices. They are the ones who have all been healthy, logical, and constructive proposals and in this legislative amendment have cold-bloodedly refused. Because how else to interpret the rejection of the HOC proposal to reduce VAT to catering services. The HOK clearly argues that, as a result of the pandemic crisis, many countries, such as Belgium, Lithuania, Germany, have reduced VAT rates to catering services, recognising the needs of their citizens. However, our top point, Plenkovic, Maric, Ćoric, rejects the HOK proposal. Are you the Croatian government aware of the state of our hosts from Bu to Dubrovnik? Do I not know if there are “solidarity” and “empathy” in your dictionary? To implement anti-civilization and thieving executive law, to charge more bills of electricity from citizens, to favour the delinquent entrepreneurs who probably refund it to you, and not to reduce VAT to the hosts. How can you justify that? To refuse the HOC proposal to account for VAT within 2 months instead of 30 days, the proposal by hairdressers to reduce VAT to hairdressing services has been rejected by a number of countries, e.g. due to this crisis. This is what Poland, the Czech Republic and Ireland do, but not the Croatian government. Deny the proposal of the Association of Croatian Purchasers and Milk Processors CroMilk to reduce VAT to purchase milk while Croatia has the highest VAT rate with Denmark of all EU members. Ladies and gentlemen, all these suggestions that I have put forward are majority, fair, working Croatia, our hairdressers, our autocarers, our farmers, our hosts, these are people who create new values and work bloodyly to survive them and their families, but they also build Croatia and a full state register. On the other hand, we have you from HDZ, SDP, HNS, SDSS structures that are insensitively and gracefully protecting the interests of the ruling deep state, various Tedeschia, Roglic and Adris groups to whom you forgive debts, giving state property into invaluable and protecting your common corruption. But think carefully about those who make up the ruling majority and reject national representatives in the Croatian Parliament to make sure that such a policy has always been punished in history and that policy enforcement has ended up in life's agony. A fresh example is your former party boss Ivo Sanader or the freshest example of JANAF director Dragan Kovacevic. In German, there is an expression of greed that devours the soul, you who defend and support such an inhumane and inhumane policy towards your own citizens ask yourself a question in front of you as this and this policy will take you away. How can you have a hard heart in front of a hairdresser in Sisak or a guest in Zadar and force tax or commission, while also transferring billions to a dubious Krš-Pajene project or to the Adria group. The Home Movement Club absolutely rejects these changes because they are insufficient and as such do not reflect those VAT changes we need. From the above, I can conclude that we will not support this proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12548	Now Mrs. Vuciilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12549	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as we have united these four points, I will refer to the section relating to the profit tax. We all know that tax policy is an essential policy of every government, and so is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the 5th round of tax reform, but the fact is that we change the tax framework and rates from year to year too often. This, however, brings one dose of instability and mistrust to both citizens and investors. We are and all the time we are talking here from the Homeland Movement that our entrepreneurs need a discharge, of course not only in this tax area, but also in what many colleagues have already mentioned, which is in the parafiscal segment, and the fact is that we and the various EU institutions have already made several commitments to reduce the parafiscal burdens, and so also in the process of joining the euro area yesterday we heard that relatively in a small part of it has been done so far, and it is obviously a big job for us to reduce over 400, 500, 600 as long as there are already parafiscal burdens finally reduced. I'll only give you one truly absurd fee for the 21st century, and that's the cost of printing results and mailing, so let's just digitize and avoid at least such fees because these fees are not small. In 2018 9 billion kunas were collected by citizens and entrepreneurs on the basis of parafiscal duties. What should be one of the objectives of every tax policy? To attract investors, most of all, let's be realistic, we are at the beginning so from us, the EU, is the only thing worse than us are Bulgarians and Bulgaria and we, in order to start significant, important development cycles, we need to double the level of investment we currently have. In doing so, we cannot rely solely on European funds and currently Croatia is in the so-called ABC category Anything but Croatia, meaning anything other than Croatia that we see and by investing in the neighbouring countries it has, means it's not that they're not there. You have, we have means BMW and Bosch in Hungary, Toyo Tyres in Serbia, Magna in Slovenia and Serbia at the same time foreign investors leave Croatia. It's not that there's no money, is there? Saving our citizens is increasing. According to HUB's data, it increased at some rate of 4% and apparently there are money in the banks, but it means 50% is going to the citizens, and out of that, it's a very large amount of 52.8 billion kuna in non-intentional loans that it says and confirms what counterpart Puljak said about the state of wealth or poverty that you love, how you want our citizens where everyone else has no funds for some extraordinary costs. Few colleagues have touched and these concessions of demand to various agencies through Article 1 are trying in some way to regulate it a little bit, but we believe that it may make it a little less relaxed but it definitely won't solve the situation, so perhaps some quality legal framework should be done there and regulate that area because it has obviously become one not gray but black zone. Also, Article 9 tries to speed up cash flows, which is good for the believers, and we think it's good in this law. What you'd look back on, which is two things. So one is, which also appeared in the public debate, which is the professional chambers and the Association's Voice of Entrepreneurs pointed out, one is the reintroduction of taxes on reinvested profits in order to foster investments that we need. So we at this level of about 9 billion can't have some big development, we have to double it to at least 18 billion, and that would definitely be a measure that we've taken because we've taken so little of them, and we've given them a question of what we're doing with this whole thing, and maybe here we'll still encourage the investments that we need and that we need and because of the new jobs, and then we'll be able to fill both the pension and health systems through the contributions that are going to be paid to that, to pay. The second is what Croatia has, and many countries do not have, and these are monthly profit tax advances, right? We see, in 2020 and 2019, what our people would say, as the sky and the country, have nothing to do with each other, and our entrepreneurs through these monthly advances, especially in the segment of micro and small entrepreneurs, have a considerable impact on liquidity. And perhaps we should consider, after all, that monthly advances, such as those, are abolished, but that profit tax is then paid on the basis of the results that they achieve at the end of the year because, let's be realistic, we often hear that we have a number of programs, precisely for micro, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, but also that means at the level of the state, the county, the city shares significant funds. But I think that now we have the opportunity to make a measure that all entrepreneurs will still be relieved because this way when it goes through specific programs, it leaves one dose of doubt, because we see only through the Slavonia project, that there is a list of relatives, godparents, similar entrepreneurs, and then in one county it's important to call yourself Lucic, in another name, the principle is the same, it remains nuances and it is not good and it creates a certain amount of mistrust and it negatively affects the market game where our entrepreneurs are, in which our entrepreneurs are. Also, for example, for guessing in Velika Gorica and Novska, it often turns out that in cities and counties there is always a similar company, is it, which by some miracle only meets the requirements of the competition. And here, so once again I appeal and support the initiative also means HOK, the voice of entrepreneurs association that is already gathering nearly 13,000 entrepreneurs, that is not a small number. However, to eliminate monthly profit tax advances and thus provide them with an equal entrepreneurship match on the market because, let's be realistic, it's the essence of entrepreneurship, that they are all equal and that they are all operating under the same conditions, not strengthening the so-called entrepreneurship. A mother country that takes everyone and then divides by some kind of key and criteria. In this segment we will support, so the Tax Taxation Act will support the Homeland Movement because the discharge of entrepreneurs is necessary and I think it really needs to be supported. I stress, however, that it would be good to make adjustments, think about these two things that I was talking about because we feel that this legislative proposal would certainly be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12550	Thank you, too. The HDZ representative's club is up to Mrs. Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12551	Dear Vice President, respected co-workers of Minister Maric, respected to the public, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us the 5th round of tax laws in the movement of tax reform by this government in continuity and given what was happening in the previous period, I will only remind in short lines that in these 4, these 4 previous circles, how much of this was done. All these literary works and hearty works that talk about how difficult it is and how some people can't live, and all the time, and together with this 5th round, there's actually business relief, reduction of the tax press, reduction of tax rates and improvement, actually all conditions and an increase in income. Therefore, it should be quite critical then, but also admit everything that has happened in these periods. When you look at what happened from 2017 on here, until 2020 in income tax, then you see that, that there were also tax rates, but also the rates of tax rates, so when we look at which all the effects were made during that period in the income tax alone, the total tax charge was more than 2.5 billion kuna. At VAT, I will only briefly note that there has been a reduction in food rates and other supplies, including utility services. That there was a threshold for entering the VAT system, that all these measures actually resulted in a release of over 3 billion and almost 300 million kuna. In profit tax, we know that it has been reduced from 20% to 18% or 12%, and there is the release of more than 570 million kuna from the beginning, so from 2017 to 2020. Contributions also disbursement for some 800 million kunas. Real estate tax, 200 million kuna, excise tax over 300 million kuna, which is total in this period, so 4 years so far, over 8 billion and 200 million kuna. That's what's been going on, which now a lot of people don't feel like anything ever happened. What is happening now with the new round of tax reform, concerns profit tax, income tax, fiscalised bills and their business and VAT. In order to reduce the tax burden on small and medium-sized taxpayers and entrepreneurs, it is evident in profit tax that these changes primarily improve the conditions for investors to reduce the tax burden of small and medium-sized taxpayers and entrepreneurs and thus increase the competitiveness of the economy by reducing the tax after deduction. The introduction of transfer pricing is also expected to prevent misunderstandings or corrections of various tax returns and thus to prevent both judicial and arbitration proceedings. Also, here is talk about write-offs by credit institutions that is in this segment which actually wants to relieve those persons and entrepreneurs who have gone into trouble with paying off their liabilities to banks. So the profit tax here for those who earn revenue over 7.5 million kuna now on this proposal is reduced from 12 to 10%, and there is also a reduction in the tax rate after deduction of dividends and share in profits also to 10% from 12 current ones. In the same way, it also affects the rate of tax per deduction where the current rate was 15%, and the new rate would be 10%, and that is especially relevant to the fees for foreign performers, artists, athletes and the like. It is also predicted that the expenditure of credit institutions for write-offs from citizens and entrepreneurs is therefore recognised as tax-recognition. There is indeed a need to carry out detailed control, what is good in the law itself, that credit institutions must actually submit the exact list at the end of the year of which citizens or entrepreneurs have written off claims, with which amounts they are to enter into tax-recognized expenditures. It also discusses harmonisation and tax redistribution in the obligations of regular harmonisation of transfer prices. So all of this would be, the whole package would cost the current budget to cut revenue by 125 million kuna. In the case of income tax, there is an additional desire to lower tax rates, so from 24 to 20, and from 36 to 30%, respectively. It would also reduce the rate of taxation of annual and final incomes and flat-rate taxation from 12% to 10%. It should also be said that national fees for older people who are governed by a special regulation would not therefore enter tax, tax scissors. This new law would therefore also level the annual billing for all taxpayers where, or abolished, taxation at an annual rate of 24% of those taxpayers who made additional receipts on the basis of the second income up to the level of the five-fold base of the personal deduction. What would make it even simpler, and we want a simpler and more efficient system so for those persons who exercise property based on leases or leases in order to deliver documents from public notebooks directly to the IRS, it is achieved that the IRS is in charge, and you do not have to personally do so by going to the IRS. It also extends the possibility of payment of receipts in kind based on the allocation or optional purchase of own shares which employers or payers give to workers, members of the administration, etc. It is also important to coordinate the taxation of students’ incomes and also to add another newspaper, which is that the cost of vaccination against infectious diseases should be borne or bought by an employer so that it can be non-taxable as such and can be recognised as tax expenditure. The code, so all of these, all of these reliefs and tax cuts total nearly 2 billion kuna, and that's what from 1.67 billion is about reducing these income tax rates to 30 and 20% respectively, and the rest is about 20 million to reduce the rate from 12 to 10%. As far as VAT is concerned, it is very important that the liquidity of companies to take care of the liquidity of companies and precisely the previous measure which was to enable the payment of value added tax here is further put into law, so up to the value of EUR 2 million, i.e. 15 million, which is very important for most taxpayers and entrepreneurs, since over 93% of these small entrepreneurs, who are the very ones who are very important in this liquidity. Similarly, the possibility of applying the VAT accounting category to imports is expanded to relieve taxpayers in terms of the engagement of those funds, which is also very important. It should be noted here that the introduction of this payment institute is, in fact, the VAT on those small shipments of EU imports of less than 22 euros, which protects and protects its own, in fact, tax system and that is the value, which is expected to total about 250 million kuna from that in the state budget. In fiscalization, prescribing the cash maximum, he would go under the authority, actually the finance minister, which would thus regulate the level of the cash maximum according to certain categories of taxpayers. This is much more flexible and much easier and given what these effects have achieved and these measures, of course we support this new package of tax laws and we believe that this way will help entrepreneurs, but also that citizens are much better and better and better and make money, and also that they have a more predictable and easier tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12552	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Tulio Demetlika will speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we're discussing the so-called. The 5th round of tax reform, which, according to government announcements, will bring higher salaries and additional redundancies to entrepreneurs. There is a total tax discharge of nearly 11 billion kuna. Great, sounds good. But the real question is whether it is just as announced or once again we are talking about tax reform, which is more of a drag from hollow to empty. We can say that this is the fifth episode of a series directed by Minister Maric, who proved to be an excellent director for public finances of the central state, but we also have to admit that he is an excellent marketing expert. He knows how to pack the product and sell it successfully. But when you take off the bow and open the package, the question is, what do we get? Of course, we from IDS are in favour of citizens having higher salaries, for entrepreneurs and businessmen to have lower tax burdens, but we are also for the increase in salaries and reduction of tax burdens for our citizens to really feel, not for it to be on the principle of "shake the hills, the mouse was born". And that's exactly what's going to happen because citizens with the lowest incomes won't even feel an increase. The most needed will again receive at least, some small amount, which unfortunately will not help them much, nor will they feel in the home budget. Let's face it, an increase in salary of a few dozen kunas cannot be seriously interpreted as an increase. Because what it means is discharging or increasing wages if it is insignificant and has virtually no effect at all. I ask the question, is it just because of the good impression because we'll all agree, all of this looks nice on paper, but the question is what it's going to look like in practice. Croatia is crying out for reforms that will achieve the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and the demographic stability that this is, let us call reform, unfortunately, will not achieve because these are not the structural reforms that Croatia needs. These solutions are just a small step that will be praised by the rule that they have implemented reforms. Replay again. When we discuss these amendments and the amendments to the law, we need to look at parallel and the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government as well as the budget of the Republic of Croatia. What he would certainly like to point out in today's debate is more than an obvious disproportionate between the state budget and the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. Unfortunately, there is a huge difference in the growth of the state budget compared to the rise of the local self-government budget and as we can see, this difference is increasing year by year. And the minister, as well as the prime minister, assures us that we are going into the process of decentralisation. If we were really going into the decentralisation process, then that difference would be reduced, and not increased, and we can see how this reform goes back to local and regional (regional) self-government. But unfortunately, this is nothing new, because in the past rounds of tax reforms, money has been taken from our citizens from the social, education, sport, culture, health, fire, civil protection, that is, revenue has been reduced to meet the needs of citizens at local level. An announcement that will increase the share of the income tax on cities and municipalities from 60% to 74%, the county from 17% to 20%, which we from IDS welcome because this coincides with our proposal during previous amendments to the law. Even you and this proposal have offered more than we've been looking for, and that sounds just as nice, but we appreciate that time will certainly show what in fact no greater long-term income for municipalities and cities will be because with the reduction of tax rates, the increase in income will not happen. You claim that the deficit in the budget of municipalities and cities will be compensated, so the impact on local budgets will actually be neutral. But with the decline in income this year due to the panedema of the coronaryvirus, next year the municipalities and cities await the obligation to repay loans approved by the Ministry of Finance and to ensure liquidity conservation. Then they will not receive compensation for an increased personal deduction, and in addition, the burden comes to them with the payment of tax relief for young people through the annual tax refund. It is obvious from the above that this reform will be a blow to local and regional self-government, given that income tax is the single most significant income of municipalities, cities and counties. What we consider necessary and what we have been pushing for for years is reforms that carry fiscal decentralisation. Only if power and responsibility were given to lower levels of government would the shift be obvious because the local level would act exclusively in its local interest, and we have pointed out countless times, and we all agreed that the local level knows best the needs of its citizens because it operates daily on the ground. For years now, we have been asking for the financing of units of local and regional self-government to be decentralised so that our municipalities and cities have a constant and secure source of funding, not that we are constantly dependent on the central government. But it's obviously going to be nothing for a long time. And what is still to be mentioned is that in Croatia as much as 60% or as the minister said 2/3 of the taxpayers do not pay taxes. Then what does that mean? It means that all the burden is paid by those remaining 1/3 who regularly fulfil their obligations. But in order and developed countries, the percentage of those who pay taxes is much higher. The result is that they are richer, more developed, they have this opportunity and the citizens there carry out and know their obligations, and in Croatia this is not the case. This proves that we are poor, and this is all the result of current tax laws, which ultimately bring minimal redundancies and minimal increases to citizens, and does not lead to a faster and more efficient development of the economy and that is the reality of our Croatia. That's why we need structural changes that will make a turn throughout the tax system, I repeat throughout the tax system because I could say in the end that this is only about cosmetic changes that will bring certain discharges, but not enough because this package of laws didn't get real tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12554	Now Mr. Bakic will speak for the Green-Left Block Club first, and then Mrs. Bakic. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, So I will share the exposure on behalf of the club with my colleague Sandra Bencic and in the first part of this joint exhibition, I would once again refer to the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act. I'd point out at the beginning once again what we all know, what we're starting with. What we have now, which is that all the amount, all the taxed amount of the total annual amount of 300,000 kuna, we all pay at the same rate, at the same rate as 24%. At the level of monthly salaries, this means that all of us, all of Croatia's citizens with a monthly gross salary of up to 42,500 kuna, pay income tax at the same rate. It's regressive, it's not just, it strengthens, it only strengthens existing inequalitys. The legal changes that are now being offered hold on to the same model in the reduction rate from 24 to 20, from 36 to 30. It is said that, with health care, we are building a more socially fair tax system. Here's how, for those with the lowest tax pay, with gross salaries of only 5,000 kuna or slightly higher incomes will increase by a few dozen kunas. For us officials, all in the Republic of Croatia with, say, a monthly gross salary of 20 or 25,000 kuna monthly incomes will increase over 1,000 kuna, when we add to the saved tax an even saved cut, it is neither socially sensitive nor solidarity, and we think that it is not a suitable time and this crisis whose duration and consequences we cannot yet predict. We were told that the intention was to keep this tax discharge in the land of our engineers, our technicians, our doctors, our craftsmen thinking about going abroad in search of better salaries. These 1.67 billion kunas envisioned a less charged income tax and a corresponding cut that is worth that goal. But we don't think that's going to happen, that's not going to happen. Equally, it was thought that the exemption of the income tax would take place between the ages of 20 and 25. what cost at the annual level then and now still costs 700 million kunas about to stop them leaving the country, and it's not because we've heard thousands and tens of thousands of young people have left the country, thousands and tens of thousands of workers have left the country looking for a better job, and they haven't left because of the pay tax or are thinking of returning for tax relief on their income. Let's be honest, so let's face it, they went for corruption, they went for injustice, they left for inequality, they went for partocracies, they went for the crime in the finale, which declaredly condemns, and rarely, when convicted by law, they went for pessimism, lack of perspective, and we won't bring them back, nor will we turn new young people away from leaving without returning faith to a more just and more solid system. That's why we think, we think we can do better, that we can assign income tax more just and soundly if we're already more willing to lose tax losses on that basis than cca 2 billion kuna. By the way, the plan to raise a personal deduction from the current 4,000 kuna to 5,000 kuna is more just than this government is currently proposed, but let's say that this plan does not correct existing inequalities, it does not deepen them, but does not even correct them because, according to this proposal, everyone with a gross salary of up to 43,750 kuna will monthly pay taxes at one rate. We've prepared a new proposal and today we've brought him up to speed at a press conference and we're going to formally substrate him. These are its elements, we would keep a personal deduction of 4,000 kuna, but we would introduce four tax rates of 15%, 20%, 30% and 40% with appropriate thresholds in the tax base, and thus achieve more of the things that we have drawn out by modeling this new proposal. First, we will remain in the gauges, within the frameworks and technical and financial frameworks of what the Government is currently proposing, ultimately and according to this proposal, reduced income from income tax and the corresponding cut would be at a level of just over 2 billion kuna. Secondly, we will achieve our proposal that those with the lowest, low and medium taxed salaries get a significantly higher increase in net wages than they would benefit from the current government proposal, significantly higher on our part. Third, we will achieve this proposal to make gross salaries between 20,000 and 30,000 kunas of our salary, the salaries of officials to keep them more or less at the same level. that our proposal for these salaries is neutral compared to the present state. I recall once again the government's proposal currently envisions a net increase in these salaries for maybe a thousand kunas or more. Fourthly, we will achieve what we believe is not only in the spirit of time but that it is truly necessary, we will achieve progressiveness in taxation by introducing four steps. That's what we think A is supposed to do now, and B is what we can do. Of course, an even greater effect would be achieved by increasing personal deduction by four, for example. 4.800 kuna or 5,000 kuna by combining personal deductions with more progressive taxation, however, this would cost significantly more. would reflect a significantly greater loss of tax revenue. At some next step, however, we have not decided on such an approach precisely because of responsibility. Total tax revenue and a corresponding income tax cut is approximately 10 billion kuna. We wanted to try as I said to stay in predicting the gauges that were already projected in the budget. The loss of a much larger tax loss due to much more progressive and milder taxation, a loss of 4, 5 or 6 billion kuna, so over 50% of the current income tax revenue, we felt that it was not the most responsible thing to propose right now, because we are actually aware of all the uncertainty and all the uncertainty it brings years ahead and we are aware of all possible additional and educational and cultural and especially social and especially social needs and programmes that this budget will need to be financed and therefore our proposal is in the shape it is. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12556	Thank you, too. Mrs. Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12557	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, I thank you for your word. So the green-left bloc proposal is actually based in the large part on the principle of tax system justice, that is the principle that is most important to us in view of our political orientation. What is apparent, on the other hand, in the Government's proposal is the exclusive follow-up to the principle of simplicity of the tax system, neglecting the actual importance of the redistribution effect of the tax system and also its introduction of justice. I'm going to refer once again to these rates that we've carried out and why they're important. If we have a defacto flat tax or we only have a single rate that applies to 99.5% of all income in Croatia except those who do not enter tax scissors at all, then of course we have no progressiveness and then, of course, those with the lowest salaries and those with almost the highest pay at the same tax rate. What was the government's argument for this is that it was wanted to actually make it possible to grow wages to higher income classes because it was about the professions we need and which we want to keep in Croatia, and for example, these are the most frequently mentioned IT experts, engineers, etc. But let's look at what sectors they work in, in which sectors IT experts and these engineers work, so in the IT sector some of them work so highly in the financial sector. The last time I looked at these two sectors is the profit sectors, so both sectors deal with profits. My question is why are we giving up tax revenues to compensate for the inadequacy of entrepreneurs to raise their salaries on their own and maybe a little less profit than we do in the budget. I don't think that's a good policy. Would it not be wiser to turn that money into sectors that are not so highly profitable, which are labour intensively and employ not a few percentages of workers but the largest number of workers in Croatia and unfortunately those with the lowest incomes? Furthermore, our proposal does not apply only to this part of the income of work, independent and independent work most often spoken of here when talking about income tax. Income is both income from capital and income from assets. What we are proposing is a serious shift in tax policy, which is to introduce synthetic tax with a progressive 4-foot tariff. This means, in particular, that different types of income, regardless of the source of whether they are self-employed or unsustainable, whether of property or of capital together, are accumulated through the annual income tax application, are collected and taxed at the same rates, depending on the amount of total income, so that those who have less income will fall into the lower income class to pay less taxes, and those whose overall income is higher will naturally pay more taxes. This would bring about the principle of justice of the system. What we now have is that for all the reasons unknown to me, we tax income from capital and income from assets at far lower rates than income from independent or non-permanent work. So craftsmen who spend or work work pay at a higher tax rate than someone who lives from renting apartments. So, with this policy that we've been working on for 20 years, we've got exactly what we've got, a rental economy that supports profiting at the site, profiting from inheritance, and those who work and products cannot profit. So it's only fair for us that all types of income are taxed in the same way at the same progressive rates. So, what we would like to point out is that this way that puts a bigger tax return on labour income than capital and property actually has a negative effect on, the negative effect has on the labour market, and it also detimises businesses to hire. And what we have in Croatia, here with Mr. Vrkljana, I commented on the other day, we have 40 and some thousands of business entities that have 0 employees, over which per year cross 26 billion kunas of income and which we give the opportunity to pay and live exclusively from profits and pay at 10% tax, and we will tax workers at a minimum rate of 20%. What logic is that, and to whom does it benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12558	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12559	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12560	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, register of non-taxed duties, or parafiscal impositions. First, the fee for the annual release of financial reports. Second, fees for the taking of actions in the section and jurisdiction of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency prescribed on the basis of the legally prescribed powers of the HANFA. Supervisory fee provided by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency HANFA. Fourth, membership fee Croatian Audit Chamber. Fifth, membership contribution Croatian Audit Chamber. Sixth, fee for passing an audit exam Croatian Audit Chamber. Seven, membership fee Croatian Chamber of Tax Advisors. Eight, fee for passing exams Croatian Chamber of Tax Advisors. Nineth, check out mining projects. 10th, checking the mineral raw materials reserves. Eleventh, compensation for the work of expert commissions to check mining projects. Twelve, passing an expert in mining. Thirteen, testing criteria and certification of pre-package testing criteria, testing of the competence of legal persons and authorised services. Fourteen, issuing a certificate of conformity of a vehicle type record, tractor. Fifteen, compensation in the procedure of the individual vehicle examined - tractor. Sixteen, stamping and examining items of gold, silver and platinum. Seventeen, initiate appeal procedure in public procurement. Eighteen, membership of Croatian Chamber of Commerce HGK. Nineteenth, chamber contribution to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, HOC. Twenty, professional exam in real estate intervention. Twenty-one, passing an examination of the professional training of the undertaker's profession. Twenty-two, technical inspection costs. Twenty-three. Compensation for passing an expert exam. Obligators of passing an expert examination shall be natural persons to whom the submission of an expert examination is paid by employers who, by hiring a professional, acquire the conditions for carrying out their activities. Twenty-four, project control clearance fee. Twenty-five, compensation for the authorisation to carry out conformity assessment and certification of conformity of construction products. Twenty-six, a fee for granting powers to conduct energy audits and energy certification. Twenty-seven, fee for issuing consent to carry out the professional affairs of spatial planning. Twenty-eight, the Croatian Chamber of Architects. Registration in the corresponding directory of HKA 1000 kunas for single entry in the corresponding directory. Twenty-nine, the Croatian Chamber of Architects annual membership fee. The annual membership fee for one chamber directory is 1800 kuna, for two directory 2300 kuna, for three directory 2800 kuna. A professional liability insurance policy is included with the amount of membership fee. Thirty, the Croatian Chamber of Construction Engineers. Registration in the registers and records of 1000 kuna, once for registration of the corresponding directory of the chamber. Thirty-one, Croatian Chamber of Construction Engineers. The annual membership fee is 1800 kuna, regardless of how many directory, how many directory members are registered. A professional liability insurance policy is also included in the membership fee. Thirty-two, Croatian Chamber of Engineering Engineers. The registration in the registers and records shall be charged at EUR 2000 for the registration of the chamber, and EUR 3000, plus VAT for each subsequent entry in the corresponding register for the cost of drawing up the stamp of the card. Thirty-three, Croatian Chamber of Engineering Engineers, annual membership fee. The annual membership fee is 2280 kuna regardless of how many registers a member of the chamber is registered. A professional liability insurance policy is also included in the membership fee. Thirty-four, the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineers. Registration in registers and registers 2000 kunas once for enrolment in the corresponding directory and 500 kuna in the corresponding chamber records. Thirty-five, Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineers. The annual membership fee for one chamber directory is 2160 kuna, for two directory 2640 kuna. A professional liability insurance policy is also included in the membership fee. Thirty-six, compensation for passing an expert survey of geodetics. Thirty-seven, request to enrol in the directory of authorised engineers of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers. Thirty-eight, membership fee for an authorised geodesy engineer. Thirty-nine, enrolment fee for enrollment in the records of expert associates of authorised geodesy engineers. Forty, compensation for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of occasional or temporary provision of services in the field of geodetic activity in the Republic of Croatia. Forty-one, monumental rent. Forty-two, HRT fee. Forty-three, a percentage of the total annual income achieved by performing audiovisual activities. Forty-five, the process of reviewing and approving the hunting economic base of the game breeding programme and their revision, and of giving consent to the game protection programme and their audits. Forty-six, peer review and approval of the forest-economic base of the Republic of Croatia or its audit. Forty-seven, implementation of expert examination procedures and approval of forest-economic plans. Forty-eight, the implementation of expert review procedures and the approval of extraordinary audits of forest-economic plans. Forty-nine, compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions. Fifty, change of purpose of agricultural land. Agricultural land, 51 control of the compliance of fruits and vegetables with marketing standards, then records of the business herd, then test of malignant hyperthermia, 55 professional services of issuing the certificate of the numerical state of the throat of cattle required for the purchase of land tender for the EU of the product, 57 fees for various certificates and identification documents, 58 fees for the cost of printing results and sending of the goods to the holding, 59 registration of holdings, 60 proceeds for the examination of the quality of the raw milk quality of the brand, 61 organisations and control of the equipment system of classification, 62 veterinary checks of the consignors over the border of the third country, 63 laying down the conditions for obtaining official laboratory status of the holding, 64 conditions for the acquisition of the status of the stamping of the mark, 65 provisions for official controls of food and food products, 66 expert supervision of agricultural products, then post-regation of registered plants, 64 laying down the conditions for the status of the link of the link of the link of the label, the product and the product, the product, the product and the product control of the product concerned, the product concerned, the product subject, the label, the label, the label, the label and the product, the product, the label, the label and the product, the product, the product, the product inspection, the product, the label, the product, the product, the product, the product, the product and the product, the product, the product, the product and the product, the product and the product, the product subject, the product, the product for inspection, the product, the product, the subject, the product, the subject, the product, the product, the product and the product, the product, the product, the product and the product, the product, the product and the product and the product, the product and the product and the product, the product, the product, the product, the product, the product and the product and the product and the product and the product and the product and the product and the product subject, the product subject, the subject, the product, the product and the product, the product, the product and the product and the product concerned, the product, the product, the product, the subject, the product and the product and the product concerned, the product concerned, and the product, the product concerned, the product and the product concerned, the product, the So maybe somewhere 600ths of it all together and that's a lot. And what was I going to say about this? I think I'm a message in one different way, and I hope that here and the vice president of the government doesn't mind either, but I wanted to send a message that other than these reforms that we're going to bring, that there's something else that really pressures the little man, first of all, entrepreneurs, and that finally this has to be put on the agenda. I know this isn't easy to disintegrate and that this is one big problem that's inherited. But lately, these parafiscal loads have been piling up, and we don't have fewer than we have and more and there's no magic wand. But here I am, now I'm gonna say, so maybe this ends up in the headlines of the media that I'm inclined to do, let's simplify things. Except for those who work abroad for us means work here, I would continue to burden them, but all of them, so Croatian citizens who work in Croatia, let's disburse them in a way that we all carry a little burden on these parafiscal duties, let's raise VAT by another percent, so that this doesn't exist. We'll be relieved of the economy. We're going to take a break from the economy, and we're going to cut this out, and then you're going to be fine with the budget, like you're sharing the money, and you're still sharing it. Because this doesn't make sense, these people of mine don't make sense. Find the money, some money, if this is supposed to exist, to finance this, but let's disburse the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs just can't work. I've offered one solution that sounds so bad, but the money has to be found, and the entrepreneurs have to unload.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12561	Thank you very much. Now we're going to individual debates and the first one will be a respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12562	I'm sorry the minister left, but it's you from the tax administration, isn't it? You're staying, you can also give answers to questions that I'm going to ask, mainly about charges from those who have a disproportionate property, but I'm going to end it. Here, I think that the economy in the Republic of Croatia is, like all my colleagues so far, that they have, that we have a burden, too many parafiscal burdens, the predecessor listed them, I'd just say that there are so many illogical paranoias that you can't believe. Five hundred, however, I'd rather mention here, so more than five hundred. But here you'd say first that the economy, 2/3 of the RH, simply doesn't exist, it's been killed, jobs have been killed. We have the potential to open jobs, we have potential in terms of, say, Gorski kotar, the wood industry that should be the most developed, we don't. Why don't we have it? Because with all import, export, import and export lobbys operating to export our balvanies for a small price, there is a further value being created in third countries, but I would say here and give a proposal, that, not the minister here, that he thinks, that the moratorium for 5 years on all taxes and giving in the area, undeveloped mountainous areas of entrepreneurs, and that in this way, new jobs are opening up in the Dalmatian Zagora, no one will come to you in the zone, very few entrepreneurs and therefore people are moving out, if we did not allow 2/3 of rural areas after the destruction of agriculture, regardless of what some say here, the government boasts that agriculture is progressing, in rural areas we have no more jobs because the entrepreneur has no interest to come into undeveloped areas. With the maximum dispensation of businessmen and workers in these areas we will revive the opening of new jobs and this is the only chance to bring our people back to undeveloped areas, to Dalmatia Zagora, to Lika, to Gorski Kotar, to Slavonia. Only. Because everything is centralized, everything in Zagreb, around Zagreb and a few cities. It's all about economic activity, and in our neighborhoods nothing or very little. Here, there are mayors from underdeveloped areas, Drnish, Imotski, we also have a mayor from these parts, so that we should simply relieve people who want to invest and invest in these areas to create new jobs. And we can do this very simply and nothing we lose with it, except demographically repair those areas, but it's a moratorium for a few years, whether it will be 5, 3, why because the entrepreneur is not worth going down from Zagreb. Its energy is more expensive, it is further away from the market, it has to pay for transport, so we would encourage people to invest and invest in these areas and remain a labour force and I believe that from abroad our people would return to their homelands because none of the hearts leave their home. And now I'd like to ask you a tax question. So disproportionate property, said the minister that somewhere around 50 years old is on average, about 500 thousand kunas, to be 600 thousand kunas to millions of kunas, so that's very little, we've even asked as a bridge for a larger number of years, unfortunately it's as an amendment to.../incomprehensible/... not accepted in previous changes. I think we're tribbing, because the people are angry at it, one part of the people of the Republic of Croatia is rich in an unknown way, no one known, some who didn't have five kunas in my pocket, in my son's 90s, are now rich people. If they got Lotto, I apologize to them from here. But I don't see how they became the owners of social objects at the largest, at the best locations and I ask you one more time and I ask you an answer, to tell me, what will be a much better solution? What's done, what you're doing with the tax administration, it's minimal, I think, we see that money is unevenly divided, we have a huge injustice towards our citizens. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12563	Thank you very much. We have some replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Kujundzic, 0sprost is the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12564	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, I have one replica regarding this taxation of disproportionate property. The only two MPs here in HS when it went into tax reform and when Minister Maric wanted to even reduce the rate to an disproportionate amount of property were colleagues Kristic and me who warned about it and asked for the rate to increase and not to reduce the years to explore the disproportionate property. Earlier, disproportionate research could be made since 2005, and the changes proposed by Minister Maric can only investigate disproportionateness for the past six years. That old man's golden age, Sanader can't be explored at all when counterpart Bacic is some correlation with bags and others, we can't investigate that. So we're asking to increase... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12565	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12566	I know this is a reduced period of time for those who robbed Croatia to simply be to make it impossible even more, it was legal for the robbery at the time of these amendments to the law, and I know that we asked for it. I personally liked to come to the Law on the Origin of Assets, if possible to make it all together, can't one individual or 15 or 20 MPs, and that law would be highly enforceable through the Tax Administration. And as for the very money of the people who robbed the Republic of Croatia, I don't think the IRS did anything, that she guessed, kept quiet, that the money was of course that Sanader, you mean Sanader. Well, I wouldn't think of Sanader as much more guilty than Ivo Sanader, but... Evey Sanader and they were worshipping him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12567	We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, and the Honorable Representative Jelkovac has taken it up. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12568	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman is injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure of his colleague, Grumoje, for insulting his fellow MPs with his unfounded insinuations. It is done again in this House, and I ask you to give a warning to the representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12569	Thank you very much. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, but I agree with you that MPs should be very careful in making any claims about other MPs because there is a way if they think that someone broke the law to report who violated the law and did their civic duty. Therefore, it is not a place here that one advocates for anything accusing other MPs, be justified, be unwarranted, be completely fictional and false, it simply is not a place here. That's not why we're here, and that's not why the citizens sent us here. I suggest we stop these injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. Okay, I'll give it to you now. ... No, I didn't, I wouldn't give you a warning either, but I'm asking you to let it be over with. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12570	So a colleague of mine broke the Rules of Procedure used the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I never mentioned any crime or accused anyone of crime at all. I said that my colleague Bacic was mentioned at the time in the correlation with certain bags and that's the fact. The media wrote about it means it was mentioned in the correlation with certain bags. If that's where you claim there's a crime, it's even more worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12571	Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Bačić, I hope that we will end this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12572	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238 colleagues of Grumoja and colleagues of Bulj repeatedly insult me and disrespect me in the same way and you should react. He knows very well, and he's lying and it's also known that I've never carried any bags or Sanader or anyone else. The fact that I, as chief secretary of HDZ, made a statement about what happened at one point when I was not the party's chief secretary does not mean that I carried anything unlike him and Mosta who prescribed tariffs for their ministers that it would also be the minister of internal affairs and justice that certain parties would be charged with the services to raise criminal charges and then to the Mosta's fund for income.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12573	Thank you very much. Now let's end with these pseudo injuries of the Rules of Procedure and I ask that in the future, I will not give anyone a warning, but please stop that. We have another replica of the respected representative Ante Kujundzic again from a distance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12574	Thank you, Chairman. I hope you and your colleague Bull are friends again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12575	We weren't enemies or we were friends ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12576	So, fellow Bulj, the whole story of some tax reform is actually best manifested or shows that, for example, Croatia is more expensive according to EUROSTAT data in Croatia, and the purchasing power of citizens compared to most other Member States is much worse, more specifically only Bulgaria is below us. The consumption per capita in Croatia is more than 20% lower than the EU average, and an even more devastating figure that Croatia has not moved from the dead spot over the past 11 years to only one percentage point, from 64% to 65% of the EU average GDP. I note in fact that again real Croatia is far from this paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12577	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12578	First of all, I'd like to say hello... And the land of property. [[You don't understand.]] Well, yes, in Croatia, it's loaded with taxes and food. We have the most expensive food but not only do we have the most expensive, we have the most uncompetitive farmers because of the parafiscal loads, of course because of import lobbys, and that's the greatest burden. We have import lobbies that import harmful bad food into the Republic of Croatia, and they earn fat on it and there is much more expensive food in the Republic of Croatia, which is the same quality as in other European Union members. So we are on the tail of the EU's poor food markets due to the fact that Croatian villages are being disabled and legally destroyed through taxes and impose parafiscal on agriculture. Of course they play a big role here and not only these taxes, but also import lobbys and pests within the agriculture ministries that should protect the Croatian village and peasants and work opposite. That's why we have to take our taxes off the Croatian... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12579	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Peric has already spoken on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club about our position in this fifth round of tax reform. What I'm trying to say is that tax reform as this government implements in five circles is a single whole package of laws that should be seen beyond the very context of pay increases on the one hand and for reasons why tax reform itself does not determine the level of pay, but it is an employer's decision, and tax laws, above all, define how much of that part will be taxed on income to the Republic of Croatia or the state budget. The tax reform should already be seen in the context of the entire fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia, and this government is implementing a good fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia speaking budgets that have recorded a regular surplus of the state budget since 2016. Therefore, when a tax policy is defined then to a responsible government, especially a government that records a relatively high share of public debt in relation to GDP, the primary interest is that through tax reform, by defining tax revenues, the state has a balanced budget and that the expenditure party is covered by the revenue side. For what? Because the situation as its consequence then has a reduction in both absolute and relative public debt. The reduction of public debt then involves clear and orderly finances, the reduction of interest obligations and, consequently, clearly leads to an improvement in credit ratings. The improved credit rating resulting from the investment rating enables new investments on cheaper loans and loans, and all of this clearly encourages new business activities and leads to improvements and better charging of the state budget. And the better filling of the state budget, which is then the result of such a reform, also allows for greater social giving. We are in the mandate behind us to witness the improvement of all kinds of social giving and parental and maternity benefits and then to clearly and other givings that we are extended to include children's allowance etc. Furthermore, it makes it possible to increase pensions clearly. All together then leads to a clear increase in consumption. So when we talk about tax reform, then we cannot only bring it down to one category to which the tax reform applies, but should be seen in the system of the entire fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia. And speaking of salary increases, we can also observe employers. The state is the largest employer in the Republic of Croatia, and in the past 4 years, all of its employees whose Croatian government, or the Republic of Croatia, is an employer, have been increased salaries by almost 14% by 20%, and also during 2021, according to the signed agreement with the Government, this will also apply to employees in education. Therefore, this does not mean that by making such changes in income tax that automatically reducing income tax results in an increase in salary. Where wages are contracted to the net amount does not mean that by cutting income taxes, there will be an increase in salary, but where the salary is contracted in gross amounts if the employer clearly respects his contract then there is an increase in salary. And what the Prime Minister pointed out this morning and what the minister said this morning is that, by analysing these four tax reform packages, it was found that the largest increase came in the positions of those employees who have the lowest salaries in relative terms. But it's almost the same ratio, and when we talk about the absolute amount, he was already saying this morning how much there's been an increase in salary, for example, for those salaries that are about 4 thousand kuna and those salaries that are about 10 thousand kuna, and we see that it's both in absolute and relative amount. the minimum wage went better through this proposal for tax reform. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12581	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Let's take it in a row. She's the first respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12582	Your Honor, first of all, wages must always be negotiated in gross amounts, not in net amounts. So that's the rule of the Labour Act, so I hope they're all agreed that way. The second question, I'm sure you'll agree that on your salary, not necessarily an increase of 1,500 kuna, not to you, not to me, not to any of us. So I'm asking you when you're already advocating this reform from the aspect that it doesn't matter what we're going to pay for 1,500, and to someone just 15 kuna, are you ready to propose, adopt the proposal that we're going to go with, which is that we're going to cut the odds in a way that we're left with the same pay, and to increase the coefficients for those who in this, in this house, have the salaries of 3,500 kuna and barely make ends meet? Are you ready to say okay, we'll give up that part, cut the odds, but increase it and re-use it for those who really have salaries ma and below the media pay in the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12583	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12584	I thank respected MPs, so I will support that kind of tax reform and that kind of tax reform of the amendments to the law that will allow the Republic of Croatia to keep all its citizens on track to raise wages. And as I was saying at the outset, I see tax reform in the context of the overall fiscal policy because a good fiscal policy that takes care of a balanced budget leads to a significant reduction in the interest paid by the Republic of Croatia. This tax reform allowed us, for example, to pay less than EUR 100 million at the expense of the Republic of Croatia's interest this year. And as for the salaries of government officials and officials to whom the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, is an employer and to whom the Republic of Croatia pays salaries, we have established two categories of basics which, relating to employees' salaries in, in state bodies, whether they are officials or whether they are officials. So she's been paid a lot of times. Officers based on an increase in the base which was not the case with [[Intruder: Thank you]] State officials, I assume you're familiar with that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12585	The next replica of the respected representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12586	... Here, do I hear from you now? [[Speaker not enabled]] [[Intruder: microphone, microphone]] Here's a thank you. Dear colleague, so I can agree with you, so with the tax burden downsizing, that's always what we welcome and, and we support. But my question is, when are you going to catch yourself more seriously with a reduction in the cost of the state? In fact, here is the effect of this reform on JLS will be 2 billion kuna and it is already announced that this will be resolved by the JLS' compensation measures directly from the state budget. Wouldn't it be wiser and smarter to say that we get rid of it in a way that we go into a more serious reform of local self-government that will also reduce the burden and this kind of public administration? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12587	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12588	Thank you, ma'am. It's a pulac. As for the downsizing of JLS, if you're referring to the reform of local self-government, I'm opposed to a significant reduction in JLS. Because I think there are a number of JLSs, even the least they were the engine of development in that space. I can, and I've quoted professors many times. Akrap, our biggest demographic who said that the abolition of small municipalities in Croatia would be a demographic wasteland. Because where there's an organized local self-government, there's an executive power that, being held there by a local chief or mayor much more money in that JLS invested than that JLS was involved with some larger JLS. That's, I'm witnessing thousands of examples where the JLS have invested a lot, a lot more than that. which is their budget. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12589	The next replicas of the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12590	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I think it is very important to stress that it is necessary to look at the overall tax reform which, therefore, began in the previous term and pointed out that until now what has been done in this regard has led to tax relief, and that they are citizens with the lowest incomes already outside the tax shears. And what's still very important is that the whole system is being taken care of all the time, and that the JLS's too, in order not to get in trouble because of some reduced revenues, will be replaced by the Balance Funds, which we remember at the time of the SDP government was not the case, and some JLS have been brought before bankruptcy practically, which I think was really bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12591	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12592	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. Of the 2 million and 700 thousand taxpayers, income tax in Croatia is the basis of these all circuits of tax reform 2/3 has been freed in general of the obligation to pay income tax. So as much as we reduce income tax, they can no longer apply to it because they simply don't, their employers don't pay income tax at all. But we forget that by cutting the profit tax, we left most of the employers with the funds that, in general, are good employers, these funds are then directed to all workers, count that the satisfied worker is the best worker on the one hand. On the other hand, it is possible for those who have the lowest wages that almost 1,000 kunas of non-taxable fees are directed to each of their own, each of their employees, and thus make up for what we are saying today is that there will be no uniform wage increase but that those who are paid by this reform will be even higher wages, and those who are paid less that they will not in this sense and so much increase He's paying. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12593	The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12594	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, as part of these tax reforms, there's also a constant reduction in profit tax. When we know that there are countries in the environment that have 9 or 10% profit tax, then this reduction to 10% in us is quite significant when we look at the environment and the possibility of actually starting any job, in this way and employment, and we know that now over 93% of the taxpayers who, therefore, are in this 10% group, so we've practically opened up to others and we've encouraged and expected, and also by the revenue projections that have always been and were correct, that they're not actually reducing income from profit tax, but they're growing, despite the rate coming down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12595	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12596	Thank you, dear colleague Peric. Yes, I agree with you. We here, today perhaps less talk about that by 4 years ago, all employers in Croatia were covered by a 20% profit tax, that this, for this 5 wave of tax reform, 95% of all employers were doubled in their profit tax rate. Therefore, at this point, 93% of the salaries according to this will now be paid only 10%, and I say, by 4 years ago, they paid twice as much tax on profits. But here, I'm going to use your question, to Mrs. Devereaux. Puljak replied, I forgot this earlier, and that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Local Self-Government, which is just, seems to me to be in my consultation, in public consultation, that almost double the number of local officials, for me by 620 seems to be reduced by the number of local officials, so Deputy Mayor, the mayor, etc., so that there will also be a significant reduction in the obligations of the units of local self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12597	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12598	Good afternoon. Here, I'm curious, so on what basis is repeated several times, which is why this optimism arises that by reducing the profit tax, and we have one of the lowest profit tax rates in Europe, we're going to stimulate economic growth. We don't have any evidence of such a claim at all. On the other hand, we have one of the highest VAT rates in Europe, and to actually bring down the rates for the poorest and by raising the non-taxable share of income, we do exactly what we need, which is to enable people, to increase consumption, that is, that is, the group of people who would spend most of their salary. On the other hand, you're denied the CNB report that says that mostly they're above the 30 grand, they're the richest, accumulated savings, they're not reinvested, as indicated here somewhere [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's gonna happen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12599	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12600	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Peovic. Yes, Croatia, you are right, there is, I think, the lowest, direct tax in Europe. And when it comes to income tax and profit tax. When it comes to special taxes, indirect like VAT, that's where we have the highest rate. Yes, it could be offset in a way that even eliminates a certain tax, and that reduces VAT rates to 21% and that is, out of opportunity, but this requires a much more systematic approach in terms of defining tax policy according to direct taxes, according to profit tax and income tax. Therefore, I believe that this way that the government is now working in a way that reduces the direct taxes that in some ways lead to pay increases, leads to increased consumption, and the increase in consumption, increases state resources in the budget, and in this way we can intervene according to all the social categories that we talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12601	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12602	One simple question, Mr. Bačić. Can you answer me, are you afraid that, here, the Bridge is going to make a suggestion that a disproportionate amount of property can be explored for a period of time, so let's put it in 2000, will you support such a proposal, or will we stay only for these last six years where every year one year we can explore we lose? Will you support the proposal to put it in, for example? Since 2000 to investigate the disproportionateness of property?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12603	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12604	Thank you, Mr. Grmo. I don't have any problem with that, since you're already asking me questions. As far as I'm concerned, my property has been questionable since I was born, so you're asking me. The question may be for you, for maybe you or for some of your friends at the Bridge. For all that is in line with, with all the laws that define both property and which define criminal proceedings, I am to enforce the laws in a way that as much as possible with these items as possible in history, according to each of us who is here in HS and in the Republic of Croatia. As for me personally, when a law is harmonised and concerns the issue of origin of property with all the positive legislation in Croatia, I am in favour of the government proposing that deadline that is most deeply intruding in history and as much as possible within the scope of as many years as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12605	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12606	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club to consult on these facts presented by my colleague Bacic now in response to my question. I would also like Minister Maric to return here to the assembly, this is a new moment, as the HDZ government has just gone to a reduction in the scope of years when a disproportionate amount of property can be explored for only the past six years. HDZ Representatives' Club President Branko Bacic has given support to go as far as possible in history as possible. It encourages me, and in fact, I understand it as one message that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support our proposal that the lack of proportion of property can be explored until 2000, if it is necessary to go further into the past and here, we will give such an amendment to the second reading of this tax reform, and given the statements of one of the key people of HDZ, the 3rd man of HDZ, we could say in general and 3rd man in the country after the Prime Minister of Plenkovic and Croatian Parliament President Gordan Jandrokovic this is a good message to all Croatian citizens that anyone who has used in any way who cannot prove the origin of his property and where there is a certain disproportionate impact on the Tax Administration and our institutions. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12607	I'll let you have the apartment, of course. Honorable MP Bacic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because Mr. Grmoya did not exactly convey what he asked me in his replica. I said I personally don't have any problem with which year it's even going to be possible to question the origin of the property, that's my personal attitude. But then I added that such a law must be in accordance with other laws, first of all it seems to me to me to be the Law on Criminal Procedure and other laws that mean in a certain sense and antiquity. Is it five years, fifty years is all the same to me, but it is in our interest, in Croatia, to examine everyone's property.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12609	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For the second time, I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure instead of the replicas. I'm going from now on because, first of all, I prayed nicely, obviously it doesn't work to start giving warnings, and then notices with taking words, so if you need to get away from the session. I see when we try to stick to the Rules of Procedure and jurisdiction and order, it doesn't work. Comrade Grmoy, what is the injured Rules of Procedure, please tell me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12610	Mr. Vice President, you yourself admitted that my colleague Bacic hurt the Rules of Procedure and you did not punish him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12611	.../Intruder Reiner: I have not punished you before, and you have also injured the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12612	You had no reason to punish me. So you had no reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12613	Of course, you never have any reason and you can insult anyone, and no one can....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12614	I'd just like to say that Mr. Bacic is a deeply doubled person. He has his own personal attitude and has something called a collective stance that prevails in HDZ. So personal attitudes are obviously not important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12615	Okay, you've exhausted your time. I won't give you a warning this time. Next time to everyone, I don't care what party, why, how. I will warn anyone who abuses the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then they will follow the other punishments in a row. Of course, now we'll take a break as requested. I'll see you at 14.58. Party at 14.53 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.57 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The respected representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, and here in this and last term, however, was the first in the past several tax reforms proposed by the HDZ government. I could describe them through two cartoons or two pictures any way you want. The first is one day, and you take the other, and that's the most common tax reform. So it's not a tax charge, it's simply a redundancy of the tax press from one group or citizens or entrepreneurs to another and vice versa, or we would say to the people, "Smuggling from hollow to empty," and the other is super high reform, we take those who have little to give to the rich or give to everyone the same, but I give to everyone by their incomes or property to those who have a lot more, those who have less give. As far as it is, such a linear approach honestly I think the speakers spoke before me because unfortunately in Croatia we have an inequality very large, and especially when we talk about revenues, about wages about economic inequality then it is huge. Now HDZ's government is heading in the same direction again. Despite the difficult health, economic and social crisis in which we are in and where we are not seeing the end, at least not yet we have some encouraging announcements, but it is still on a very long stick with the intention of reducing the rate of taxation from 36% to 30% and rates from 24% to 20%, so it will minimally increase the salaries of people with lower salaries if it even increases them as if I am not mistaken and my colleague Bačić spoke, who today receives a large majority of employees in Croatia and will lead to a significant growth in high wages, which today receives a significantly smaller number of better-standing citizens. If we look at the average salary in Croatia it is not so bad, but if you consider that the large majority of employees receive minimum wage, and that only a few with a nat average high wage increases that percentage then the situation is actually very different. What would it mean to be translated into numbers and letters, or what will our citizens receive? If we take and assume that despite this reform, despite all the wages will grow, then the net salary now amounting to 4.294 kuna and 40 limes will grow by 17 kuna and 60 limes. You'll agree to a very large increase that's not even enough to comply with inflation. Let's take a close double salary means the same net of 8,710 kuna and 40 limes it will grow by 281 kuna. So you see here immediately the disproportionate we're talking about, so of 4,300 is much more common than the 8,700, but let's take a double salary of this 8,700, so the net salary of 16.953 kuna and 60 limes will grow by 774 kuna and 40 limes. So that's where you see the parallel that I'm trying to pull that those who have get more, and they don't get less. A much fairer approach would be to make it possible for those who have less than what the people say to the already fat geese to rub their necks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12618	I did. We have one replica, two pardons. He is the first respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Domagoj, I think in these things when it comes to tax reform, employers and the state must be partners there absolutely no, there is no dispute. We heard from Minister Maric's statement that according to this latest reform that will soon be brought by the employer, he can pay 13,000 kuna untaxable means he will not pay a dime, a cut, a contribution to any of his workers. Can you tell me how many employers will be willing to pay that, that means 1,000 kunas practically monthly and whether the government can in any way influence that we have employers to go to hand and we have to do it for the sake of a complete economic picture gives a minimum wage. Why is that, why does it happen when the government does everything to make the economy better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12620	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12621	Well, I agree with you that the government can't do much, so the more the majority of the salaries are agreed in the net amount, if it's agreed in the net amount then the reform just means that the employer will pay less, if it's agreed in the gross, then it's something else. However, the government can do something else, we have talked about it many times, the government can relieve entrepreneurs, it can improve business conditions or business atmosphere, it can stimulate investment, it can do a lot with a smart tax policy, let's say, for the development of our end of Croatia where we both come from. I have repeatedly suggested so-called. tax oasis or reliefs for certain industries related to geographical parts of Croatia. Why say in eastern Croatia where we already have a successful IT industry would not, through tax discharges, stimulate them to work there more, hire more and thus bring life back to our region.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12622	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12623	In fact, you've already responded partly to what I was about to say. In fact, it's about us having to sort of agree to the employer that part of the money he saves through taxes or through some other burdens that the state didn't take to actually give to the workers. Now the state has allowed a part of the money to be paid untaxable, believe me, a large number of employers will use it but for their own benefit, not for the benefit of the workers and it is not good and it needs to be prevented. That's why we need to find mechanisms to prevent it and help workers who are really at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12624	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12625	My colleague Pavić absolutely agrees. In fact, we were also witnessing when both this government and the government passed and a lot of governments reduced taxes, reducing some taxes. Let's just say it was on children's equipment to cut child food taxes and so on, but that didn't result in a price reduction but only the markets raised margins, so this is what this is all about. This disbursement that the employer pays for the same amount so I'm talking about gross should bring more likely not in the net because I say our salaries are usually agreed on in net amounts, rather than in gross. So we actually relieve the employer of what is good on the one hand, but on the other hand, employers should bear in mind that a satisfied worker is a good worker and that as much money as possible should be directed towards the worker because in this way it increases his productivity, satisfaction and ultimately the quality of life, consumption from which they can indirectly benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12626	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Mandaric. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic hurt his Rules of Procedure when he says that most of the employees in the Republic of Croatia are on a minimum wage, which would mean that the most people on the Minimal are not standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12628	This is not, of course, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor did you refer to the article, so I give you a warning. The next individual debate will be respected representatives Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12629	... Vice-President, representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So today is our agenda to discuss four legislative proposals from the so-called The 5th round of tax reform. I will talk in view of a relatively short time just a little bit and in part about amendments to the Income Tax Act. In fact, the government has been pompous through the media for some time, and today Minister Maric has announced this as a major tax reform that carries about 2 billion kunas less from the state register, which means that the state is particularly sacrificing, and says Minister Maric brings more into the pockets of citizens. And actually, when we're looking at it mathematically, it's like, on the one hand, minus two, on the other hand plus two, but what I see as a problem is that these plus two are arranged and I don't think unfortunately that's a tax-righteous distribution, and I don't think that's even socially sensitive, quite the opposite. I think this 5th round of reform is again deepening inequality and creating a new gap among citizens. For Croatia, the inequality of income distribution in 2019 was 4.8, which in a simple dictionary means that 20% of the population with the highest income in the Republic of Croatia received 4.8 times the income of 20% of the population with the lowest equivalent income available. And these aren't the data I'm pulling out of my sleeves, these are our DZS data. This tax reform, once again implemented by HDZ, will make an even greater difference between a small number of people in Croatia who earn a lot and a large number of people in Croatia who earn little. So, this tax reform favours a simple, simplest dictionary with a small number of people in the Republic of Croatia who make huge revenues, for us here who are representatives of HS, officials in the Republic of Croatia, members of the Government, etc. It brings huge incomes at the monthly level of a thousand and perhaps more kunas per month. On the other hand, for most citizens, for nearly 700,000 people of the Republic of Croatia who have the lowest, low or medium wages, this unfair tax reform is, in my opinion, a small increase. The increases in which we talk about a range of 15, 60, 100, 120, 150, or if someone is lucky and has a salary of around 8,000 kuna at monthly level will get maybe 250 kuna, which of course depends on their personal deduction. And then today, Minister Maric said here he admitted that in the Republic of Croatia only 7,000 citizens receive this large salary, this salary to which a large amount of funds will be allocated over 1,000 kuna per month. And then after that, Minister Maric here assures all of us together that this is a good tax reform because we will encourage new consumption and this new consumption will trigger funds in Croatia, and this particular government of HDZ-proved does not run a wage policy that would strengthen the position of citizens with lower incomes and those who represent a threatened middle class. Now I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, how few of us are left here, how are those 7,000 citizens going to stimulate consumption? So they may be stimulated by precisely those foods and those which are most citizens in Croatia's luxury because those who have small incomes in Croatia will focus these small increases on accumulated costs, on duties, on everything they have accumulated in this period. And I'm just going to remind myself because the weather is leaking to me that in these very days, right in this month they come to collect expensive moratorium, a moratorium on which they were citizens of a moratorium on loans, on which they were forced to take citizens in spring from banks because the HDZ government did not accept the SDP's proposal of the Moratorium Act on loans that would be free of charge for citizens. And now these citizens with an increase of maybe 100 kuna per month will have to pay new loans or new interest rates to banks on which they will be zero. What increase will he have in his possession? There's no increase. In Croatia, living is becoming more difficult, citizens are becoming more difficult and why the insufferable HDZ government does not see it, I do not understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12630	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12631	Thank you, Vice President. So as much as we can talk in these five minutes, but here's this insolent government and all of us here who support these reforms are actually only in one segment very easy to prove that it's not like that, and that's exactly what I touched when I put up the replica to Minister Maric, and it's about the Income Tax Regulation. So, with the reduction of tax rates, we also have amendments to the Tax Tax Tax Regulation which has allowed for the payment since 2018 of irrevocably different bonuses, Christmas bonuses, annual vacation fees, additional salaries with monthly salary as rewards, a warm meal, etc. among other things, there is additional supplementary health insurance, etc. And just here is just for the appropriate Christmas prizes and vacation fees is for example. In 2018, there was a number of acquirers over a million 150 and an amount of non-taxable income of 2 billion and 400. In 2019 there were thus millions and 178 acquirers, and for the past 9 months there are more than 704 acquirers this year. So when you look at the fact that out of 2.8 million people or taxpayers who pay taxes all of them, 1.8 is those who don't pay taxes. So we have a million taxpayers who pay taxes and now say that this million a year, one million 150 have not increased their incomes and their incomes from these sources. Well, that's not true. In addition, when we say that the overall profit tax rate is what I was saying is reduced so from 20 to 18, then to 12, and now to 10, it is very important that that small entrepreneur can very well organise that it is not such a tax press that he can certainly direct his investments into something else, that he can pay his workers, employees and ultimately create a new value. Also when we're talking VAT on fees, so here's what was important? It is also important to achieve a better liquidity in these measures since the beginning of the year COVID. So it's possible then to pay VAT on invoices, and here it is now rising to 15 million kuna. So everyone who does the service that they charge or sell the goods only then pays the VAT. And now that we put it all in the whole context, then we see that in this period, together with this new measure, it's a total of over 10 billion exemptions from various tax obligations. Therefore, we can certainly talk about the effects being very large. Can we cover every segment? Tax, any details and changes in the tax system cannot go linearly. He must be very careful, and he was careful in this case and about how and how he contributes to each individual how local self-government works. So all these sources had to be taken into account and what was important to say and it was already mentioned that the units of local self - government did not run out of income. And let's not forget that the tax on the company has been reduced and abolished, the real estate tax has been reduced, etc. So here's the result of this government's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12632	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She is the first respected representative of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12633	... So I'm interested in what you're based on means what your optimism is about is that taking down one of the lowest taxes in Europe, so we have one of the lowest profit taxes in Europe, encouraging reinvestment, and that taking down the value of taxes for those who have salaries of over 30 thousand kunas will stimulate some kind of economic growth. [[You don't understand.]] That's what you said in the previous line. Why and where does your optimism come from if it turns out that there are 75 billion kunas in their accounts, which is information from the CNB? So 1.7 holds more than 40% of the total savings in Croatian banks that is the elite of those 1.7% of Croatian society that doesn't even invest. And when we do, when it comes to entrepreneurs, you and Minister Maric appeal to raise wages. Well, the wages didn't go up. Our salaries are 37% of the salary of a Western European worker We have the lowest salary in Europe. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12634	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12635	Thank you very much. Well, my optimism is that I believe in the work of what, these governments and all of us together are doing here. Anyone who was an entrepreneur doesn't care if it's a 10 or 20% salary but you look at the structure and when you look at the county districts where you have the biggest deposits it's also very important. You have in Istria County, for example in Lika-Senj County, which you would say is possible. It is possible, therefore, that the elite live in Lika-Senjska. I think they're rare elites, but you see that doesn't mean they're saving only elites.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12636	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12637	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it's really interesting to hear here from the SDP deputies that this government is insensitive because of this tax reform, and their government wasn't insolent, but was very sensitive when it wasn't carrying out collective agreements, and it wasn't paying Christmases and other material rights, when it was cutting wages, when it was cutting pensions, it was then a very sensitive government. And this government that increased wages, increased pensions, increased a base that is not taxed for paying off many material rights is now insolent. These criteria are really their very interesting. On the other hand, they are kindly saying that only a satisfied worker can be effective, and then say employers will not raise wages. So do they think that employers who really want to survive on the market are not in the interest of keeping a good worker. I think that all those who are in the real sector are really in their best interests and that there will really be an increase in workers' salaries, because that's the only way we can keep workers, good workers in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12638	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12639	Thank you. Yes, these are precisely double standards because all that disrespect for collective agreements was in health care, whether in school they came to pay off this particular government in the previous term and they are still going on because this government is trying to find the means to honor all these collective agreements. That's where this salary increase comes from, right? Public officials and tenants. We faced a number of lawsuits that came to our checkout. For what? Whether it's in the interest of this government or any government should be to cut rights or to cut wages. Well, the goal is for everyone, every normal man to raise their salary in any way, it's possible to do it regularly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12640	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12641	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I often ask questions about the effects of all these reform circles, first of all, on income tax. So allow me, the effects of the first round since 1.1.2017 are an increase in total personal deductions by the circus 33%. Reduce the tax base for the circus 25%, reduce the total tax and cut the income for the circus 10%, simultaneously increase the net payout by 7%. We also have an expansion of the first-rate class 24% year-on-year from 210 to 300,000 kuna. We have procedures in the contribution segment. In the last round, we had an increase in personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna. We also have a tax discharge for young people. I'd like to ask you what is the financial effect of the reforms so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12642	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12643	Thank you very much. According to what we have and in the presentation made by the Ministry of Finance by 2020, so now from 2017 to 2020 it was 8.2 billion plus what will happen with this release, so over 10 billion kuna. Of that, income tax alone is over two and a half billion kuna. The VAT is over three billion and 280 billion kuna, etc. So, all of this can be checked after years by what's been done and how much it's done. After all, when you look at the very basket of goods, which was, for example, influenced by VAT and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12644	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12645	Dear colleagues, in my knowledge there is no universal truth about tax systems, but every country has its own truth about tax systems and defends its own truth every government, and that truth speaks of the government's relationship with its citizens, according to the well-being of citizens. So, you've glorified an increase in the untaxable amount of wages. First you have to factor out what incomes are, which are wages, which are incomes because I didn't understand very well that you've factored it out. But know that there is a consequential side. I'm for workers to get as much as they can, but they pay, because when they get paid, then contributions to health care and retirement and we don't have holes in other systems. So, to brag about one thing we did, and to make a hole in the other system, I don't think it's very good. The fact is, someone had an increase in income, that's what it stands for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12646	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12647	In this way, there are incomes from non-permanent work on wages but therefore labour relations can result in some untaxable income. So I was talking about what comes from the Labour Act, collective contract, etc. So someone who is employed has a right and can be paid by an employer or only an independent craftsman can pay for himself, so these untaxable receipts. That's what I was talking about. I think you're actually quite clear. Actually, you're the other way around. In any case, the goal is, and so is my goal, and I think to all of us that really in the income that someone makes out of pay to pay and contribute, so that we don't have these holes that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12648	Next replica of the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12649	Thank you. Here, dear colleague, you mentioned micro and small entrepreneurs as well as this tax reform will help them, but you would warn exactly what is happening these days to micro and small entrepreneurs because of this minimum wage directorial base, I know it's part of the Law on Contributions, but therefore this measure was introduced as some kind of response to some malversions, frauds that were taking place. However, the role of the tax system is not to solve some fraud and malfeasance, so the role of the tax system is quite different. So, in this way, it actually destroys people's motivation to even open up companies, so the problems with small companies are up to 3.g. Businesses still have no profit and cannot pay themselves full, full full contributions at full pay. Here, is there anything you want to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12650	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12651	I understand your concern, even ours, about how much micro and small entrepreneurs have burdens at the beginning, etc. On the other hand, here's a colleague and that's, we're witnesses and the tax administration keeps records of how many of these j.d.s.s and micro entrepreneurs who don't have employees, and they do, and they do big traffic, are we hearing 26 billion kunas and then we're actually wondering what that came from? So does it make sense to you that you're creating so much, so much value that you don't have a man who's creating it and who's supposed to have, for example? the obligation to pay some contribution to health or pension insurance?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12652	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12653	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Peric, you said that these tax reforms allow small entrepreneurs to organise themselves very well and create a new value. It is expected that in the Republic of Croatia citizens then flock to entrepreneurial waters in fact which is not true. Because it is known that being an entrepreneur is very difficult and that it is hard bread. I don't know if you've ever tried in entrepreneurship waters under Croatian conditions to know what it's like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12654	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12655	Thank you very much. Yes, I'm very aware of what it is to be an entrepreneur, I'm not personal, but my family, too, and my kids who didn't ask for a job in state firms, so they're entrepreneurs, but I also think that when you talk to a younger population, then you see that everyone who wants to create a career or do something then he sees himself as an entrepreneur despite being an entrepreneur it's not easy at all, but I think we need to do a very good job and give them a boost and create a prerequisite that they can actually open up and can come through incentives and help them through other kinds to develop entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12656	The next replica of the respected representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The economic theory knows models that predict a reduction in tax rates to extend the tax base. which ultimately leads to higher tax revenues. That's a theory. And if we look at the Croatian case in recent years we see that in practice it is possible and feasible because in recent years we have reduced tax rates through 4 waves in various tax forms, and we are collecting more income from taxes. We hope that this tax reform as well as the profit tax will also lead to more money in the budget in the future. We also have a theoretical background and in practice it has proved very possible and a clear policy of the government in which it is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12658	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12659	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, the goal of every country and every reform, is to reduce tax ejaculation. So with this we can't say that 10% when you look at it or 12% what it was for rent or for some income that it was some big tax. So we need to channel all income to make them visible, to have certain reliefs, but also to pay. You used to have more non-reporting cases, I don't know, tenants, renting business spaces, etc., that's getting less and less. So we've created conditions for as many of these incomes to be channeled and reported, and so this is why we have actually a bigger tax charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12660	The next replica of respected Marine MPs Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12661	Thank you. And here's among all the problems facing citizens, there's the current topic of tax reform that you're optimistically defending today and that you assure the citizens that everyone will benefit even though you believe and realize that these benefits will not be evenly distributed. I would ask you to explain to people who receive minimum wage for what they will get from this cosmetic reform, and how much of their purchasing power will grow, given that the vast majority of citizens are working for that particular salary, for the minimum wager? Is this an example of the growth of wages that will, in fact, be shed into consumption and that will directly encourage the recovery of the Croatian economy? So I ask you to explain to those who are already receiving a higher salary, which, which, which will have the same increase by 20 kuna, are the benefits of this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12662	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12663	Just by changing the rate in this minimum wage case, nothing significant will happen to such persons. However, at those times when VAT cuts for certain goods are reduced, they also have indirect benefits for those with minimum wage. But it is in the interest of this government that these salaries are raised, that they grow, that more, in fact, they create preconditions so that this entrepreneur who works from certain and certain ways can increase that salary, therefore, that it is not minimal, that it is above the minimum. So this when it's seen as a complex actually impact on the entire tax system then we want to create exactly these preconditions not only to be minimum wages and start-ups that we need to talk about, but to be much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12664	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12665	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would only draw your attention if you said we have the lowest wages in the European Union. But you forgot to say that we have the most expensive price of work at the same time, which is actually devastating to us definitely. Another thing I would like to say to spin masters and others who have some trendy statements about our and your government, any government in the Republic of Croatia that has been elected in democratic elections is my government, regardless of whether it is the coalition government of the SDP, HNS, HSU or whether it is the coalition government of the HDZ and the SDSS, but it is my government and I expect each government to work in the interests of my citizens, especially in the interests of the socially endangered group of citizens. I hope you don't mind? And I hope that all those who speak of our government and your government have said that in fact by mistake. Because if someone has their own government, and I have my own government, then we don't live in the same state and we don't sit in the same high house. And now I'd like to speak to you, unfortunately here comes Mr. Minister, and I'd like to look just a little bit at the taxes that you have, or the laws that you've made here today before us. The fact is, we have positive movements in certain legal acts. However, I would like to ask or draw attention to the fact that this value added tax is likely to be in addition to harmonising with the EU regulation is probably also an incentive to make up for some of the money in our budget. It should be around 200 and 50 million kunas if I am not mistaken to come up with additional funds if purchases are taxed, which are up to 22 euros from non-EU countries. But I don't know if it's related to some date or not, but... So that's what I was going to ask you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it was my question whether it was related to a date or if we could maybe delay it a little bit to help the citizens since these purchases are done by our students, and students and citizens who don't have a lot of money, and that would do a lot of good for them, however, is 25% less money they would spend on such purchases. It's not a big deal, but here's a man's help. The second thing I'd like to suggest is about the same value added tax. In fact, it is to try to introduce for all invoices that VAT is paid for the paid realisation, not for invoiced because it would be a huge discharge for entrepreneurs and would actually increase the amount of crafts that they necessarily need for new production cycles. In fact, this payment when VAT is paid before the invoice is paid is actually an advance tax payment and every entrepreneur needs to secure these funds from some other incomes, whether it's some other invoice, some other business or other way. And it's similar with profit tax because if it's paid in advance, in both cases, the entrepreneur basically if we're going to look real, he's kind of lending to the state, and he's actually much less financially able to do all those jobs that need to be done. As far as profit tax is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if the profit tax is cut, we will not necessarily help businesses, but we will primarily help entrepreneurs get cheaper money. He pays a 10% profit tax, he gets a cash he can raise according to the 10% bill. So that's the part of the story. And what I have already asked you, I would draw attention to that work of students and taxation of that work, I agree that it is necessary to tax that work for a variety of malfeasances, but I would ask you if it is possible to think about whether it is 15 thousand kunas taxed or untaxable that it is not removed from their parents' personal deduction because it would be very helpful for them. A thousand and 250 kunas isn't enough for a student to live a month with that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12666	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12667	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with an associate. He's right in front of us. The fifth round of tax reform and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act, which is the most interesting of all these proposed tax changes to citizens because they are most affected by depending on which pay grade they are. In light of the bill's proposal, it states that the government programme of the Republic of Croatia has identified priorities and objectives from 2020 to 2024, and among other priorities, the achievement of the perspective of the future of creating a competitive, vital and educated Croatia. Thus, it is said that the tax exemption will continue in order to further increase the available income, taking into account the socially fairer tax system. The fundamental question is whether this proposed amendment and the addition of the law is on the trail of a more socially fair tax system. Article 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed, among other things, that Croatia is a social state, and in Article 3 that social justice is one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpretation of the Constitution. According to the new social justice index in the EU and OECD Member States, Croatia is 32 out of 41 places. What kind of social state is this? It is a state that achieves the social security of all citizens and corrects social injustices created as a consequence of market action. The social state means extending state power to ensure fundamental existential security and the social well-being of citizens. So you're thinking about all citizens, not just those with high incomes. And what does this modification of the tax system bring for the citizens? In fact, we can't even call it reform, because reform would be a more significant transformation of the tax system, and this amendment and the addition of the law certainly isn't. This amendment and the addition of the law will ensure the highest relative growth for citizens with the highest salaries and even for government members and parliamentary deputies but will certainly not significantly increase salaries for workers of the parliamentary services. For those above 20,000 kuna, net wages will rise by 1000 kuna, and those from 30 to 40,000 kuna would be increased sometimes by 2500 kuna to 3000 kuna. It is clear that this model prefers rich citizens with the highest wages. In the SDP, we are in favour of social justice, the social security of all citizens and therefore we prefer the tax discharge of less-income citizens. We advocate an increase in the non-taxable share of income from 4 to 5000 kuna and this would lead to a relative increase in salaries of the highest number of citizens. For example, a single man with 5000 kuna would receive about 60 kuna salary increases in these income tax changes, and in the event of an increase in the non-taxable share of income from 4 to 5000 kuna, he would receive a salary increase of around 256 kuna. This progressive wage increase, which is preferred by the government, allows the least to grow and the largest to grow the most. When it is clear that those with the lowest incomes barely make ends meet and the entire income is invested in personal consumption for daily needs and directors, and the richest ones invest in savings it is clear that these changes in the law will not result in the effect of increasing personal consumption as an engine of economic growth and exit from the crisis. In Croatia, personal consumption has 60% of GDP shares, which is bad since production is in a smaller scale. In the light of the consequences that law will take place, the social justice of the tax system is also cited. It is evident that this tax system proposed will by no means be socially fairer because it prefers those rich with higher incomes, while the poor leave crumbs. In this way we can forget social justice as one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12668	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12669	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. Today we are really discussing an important but interesting topic. I support all these debates so far, and I hope that all MPs who feel in their accounts will pay an increase in their wages for humanitarian purposes as MOST has given up heights, i.e. the pay difference above 9999 kuna. That would be fair. If you're advocating anything, you're holding on to it first. I signed up for this debate about amendments to the Income Tax Act, which is important for all municipalities and cities and, of course, the county. The Varazdin County today is a large building site in which over two billion kunas are invested or are being made. Only in health care is implemented, partly implemented, and today a contract has been signed for the construction of a spinal centre in the Varazdin spas for 112 million kunas, and total health care has been invested in the past three, four years 622 million kuna. 13 kindergartens are built in 13 municipalities and cities worth 60 million kuna. A whole new elementary school worth 26 million kuna is being built in St. Elijah. Regional competence centres 158 million kuna. In energy, i.e. strengthening the electricity voltage of the construction of reconstructed low voltage networks of over 30 million kunas, the road envisaged to build a bypass in Novi Marof for 113 million kuna, the bridge in Tuhovac 9, the recovery of dangerous places worth 55 million kuna, currently building two agglomerations worth billions and 100 million kuna, and now I could count there, and for at least an hour, two full 16 pages I have here taken out all these investments. Where'd you get the funds for that? One part of the EU funds, and one part of the budget, and the budgets and states and municipalities and cities are filled with tax revenues, and we are discussing this today. Or a little bit for comparison if we compared the previous two governments and their tax effects it would look like this. So it's red in 2012-2015, blue 2016-2019, the income of investments in cities, meaning tax and tax, helping from the budget down for municipalities, so over 59% have increased the budget revenues of municipalities, cities and counties in the mandate of the previous government. Of course, that is why it was possible to make all these valuable and important investments for all our municipalities and cities, or for our citizens. In Varazdin County, the most developed municipalities are precisely those led by HDZ's chiefs. These are municipalities around Varazdin, for example. The above Principal who has one of the most developed entrepreneurship zones in order to be able to develop it at all should have designed it, changed the spatial plan, designed everything, built the municipal infrastructure, attracted investors and, of course, created jobs. The second municipality is the municipality of Jalzabet, then Vidovec, Vinica, and I do not list the most developed and advanced municipalities in the area of the Varazdin County, and all statistical indicators of the HDZ water speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12670	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12671	After these, great historical speeches and all these praises that I have not listened to, and I envy you for having this gift so much to praise your party colleagues, but you have now listed numerous projects in Varazdin County. I don't know if Varazdin and Dalmatia are your county whether then they're the same state, which is why the county and Dalmatia say my county that separates huge money into the state budget from everything it has nothing to return to, only my Cetina gives 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia and from the promises 3 years ago from the government's meeting in Split about 2 billion kuna projects do you know how far it has been achieved so far, state, zero. I don't know why, maybe, I don't know, the mayor of HDZ is the same as the mayor, the mayor of HDZ. Except for pre-election saluting in election cycles, so when you take out the sample you see exactly who they were when they were any choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12672	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12673	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, so I've been discussing the area of Varazdin County and I've only made important investments because if I went to list everything and it would take a while, it would take a long night, there's a lot of it. But it is important to highlight in all municipalities and cities no matter what political option it is led by that municipality and the city is built and operated, regardless of whether it is the mayor or mayor of the HDZ, SDP, HNS, HSS, HSLS or non-partisan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12674	Next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj. Comrade Bulj, please not from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12675	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12676	You've raised your colleague Bulj's breach of the Rules of Procedure, what's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12677	The Honorable Chairman, you hurt Article 238, so you don't hear that your colleagues and party colleagues say that they're the only ones saying that I didn't speak, you missed the target this time. I'm sorry, and don't warn them, but look at others for those who bother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12678	I didn't miss the target, I told you because you talk all the time. And now I'm giving you a warning because you didn't even call for this one to be wrong in the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't actually have any excuse for that, and you know it very well. And please stop that. Here you are, the esteemed representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12679	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am pleased to see that honey and milk flow in Varazdin County at least I do not think so, because I am glad because of my cousins in Varazdin Breg, but today I am shocked by one, one news from Varazdin that actually in the homes of the pensioners I can no longer go to the hospital because there is no room. If you have developed so much in Varazdin County all capacities then you should have developed or built hospital facilities, and not that the now ill pensioners remain in retirement homes and do not have adequate health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12680	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12681	Dear colleagues, so before this term, the current HDZ county authorities and reformists of the Varazdin County had led and participated in the SDP authorities for 4 mandates. And we invited them in the 2017 campaign to come show that m2 you built and it wasn't there. So you call them nice and let's show that square meter, there wasn't, so now, it's signed so contract for construction... The center that's been talked about for twenty years in Varazdinske spas, 112 million kunas, is being built emergency hospital reception, daily surgery that wasn't there, so it can't be solved in a year or two or three everything SDP hasn't done in 16 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can't be, time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12682	The following is a replica of respected MPs, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected MP Pavic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12683	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12684	Please state the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12685	Article 238... The SDP was not in power in County, there was in power... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] coalition partner, Mr... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , from the CNS... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's your coalition partner. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12686	You can't, uh, like this, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and learn what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is, you're a new agent, these old ones know, and they're knowingly breaking, and I believe that you're unconsciously breaking the Rules of Procedure, but this one, you get a warning anyway. And we do, here you go. No more replicas. Here you go. ... [[jamour]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12687	Your Honor, I've called before, I don't know if you've registered me,.../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12688	Now, fellow Members, please read to yourself at last the Rules of Procedure and you will understand that I have to give, whatever I think about, whatever I think, and sometimes I know in advance that the institution will be abused by the Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, I must give my word to the one who asked for the Hurt of Rules, and only then will you, who are regularly, regularly looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12689	I think it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12690	That's how the chairman, tell them to behave without a brother-killer's war.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12691	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12692	... injured Rules of Procedure under Article 238 by you Mr. Reiner, with the fact that colleagues of Pavić dodging in such a way that he is the new representative, and that what is the difference of the new or old?, if the elected representative has the right to speak as well, more than the old MPs, he is now there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12693	Of course he's right, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. Now, please, dear representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12694	.../Intruder Angelko Striker: So I also gave a violation of the Rules of Procedure,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12695	Don't, don't mess around.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12696	Thank you very much. Dear and dear Mr. Strick, so I come from Varazdin County like you, together we fight for the citizens of the Varazdin County to get as much funding as possible through both the mayor and the mayor that you mention is exactly the most successful from HDZ. Are you going to say that the criterion for the allocation of funds from the state budget is HDZ's party card? I'd say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12697	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12698	Dear fellow Members, since you have said the esteemed and dear colleague Strick, I will be gentle, and since you are coming from the Varazdin County, I think you are all very well aware that no funds have been made against the party cards, and among other things in Petrian is your SDP chief, so I have never heard that I have complained that any good project, initiative, idea has not passed, so I don't think it was. Thank you, my dear representative. .../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12699	I was informed that Imotski also contacted us and respected representative Kujundzic with a violation of the Rules of Procedure. .../Laughter/... What injured the Rules of Procedure in Ivanbegovina? .../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12700	So here's the chairman, a few articles have been injured, they are now in this whole story the least important, and I would like you and my colleague Bulj to be friends again and be a little more tolerant of him. Thank you. .../Laughter/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12701	You're getting a warning because it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12702	For tolerance. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12703	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. The fifth round of tax reform is a continuation of the policies of discharge and of citizens and entrepreneurs, and with a new wave we will be at more than 10 billion kunas of discharge, and that will likely grow over 11 billion kunas when the untaxable receipts such as employees' rewards, warm meals and transportation are added. And it's commendable and it should be supported. I always try to see how certain provisions apply to both our farmers and the rural area where there are perhaps still some elements to improve and in this regard I will look back on some measures. I would like to remind you that two years ago, the Ministry of Finance adopted a provision relating to the fiscalisation of self-service appliances including those with agricultural products, such as oil, eggs, milk, medomats and that provision from 01.01. Of course, no one is running away from paying their obligations, nor am I asking for additional privileges for farmers compared to others, yet I would like to say that this measure creates costs for farmers to adaptive software and to connect with the Tax Administration, and it is some hundred such self-service appliances, and perhaps it could be taken into account that farmers, as was the case so far, are exempt from that provision. But on the other hand, here, despite this situation, through one inter-resorship cooperation and communication I had, we managed to find a solution and accepted my initiative that the Ministry of Agriculture co-finances the costs of fiscalisation for our farmers, and I hope that in this way we will all be pleased to overcome this potential problem that has arisen. I am also pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in its programme, and this is confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, that during the mandate it will focus on seeking a solution to create conditions for reducing VAT on food. And that's a measure that I believe all MPs will support in a warm way. When considering the VAT law, I would like to present perhaps one proposal for the ministry to consider that the next round of reforms draws attention to Article 9(1). The VAT law applicable to goods supplied by a taxpayer registered for VAT purposes from another Member State to a taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia who has the correct VAT and identification number. In this delivery, with proof of delivery of goods in the Republic of Croatia, the supplier will not account for VAT but transfer the tax liability to the recipient of the taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia. I'll try to explain, for example, what this is about. Let's assume the average interest is 5% a year and the days of the trade capital bonding are 100 days. It saves itself on the capital prices necessary for the financing of the import VAT is 125m euros or for this amount the costs of import goods are lower than for this goods to be bought in the Republic of Croatia. Since VAT is not transferred to the final product within Croatia, the obligation must be paid for this amount of Croatian agriculture and the food industry is more expensive than the goods coming from the European Union. If the processing industry has long crafts and even a year, the amounts that can be saved on imports are even more significant. For example, the prosciutto producer who produces 100,000 pieces a year saves by buying an import but of the same quality and prices about 520 thousand kuna or 70 thousand euros at a lower cost of trade capital, which accounts for about 3.5% of the input cost of raw materials. Enabling the transfer of tax obligations to import goods on the other hand, if we move a little bit, it actually supports the import of products which is not our goal because we want to reduce imports. The VAT collection policy in the European Union countries is a different legislation used opens up space for us as a Member State to adapt the provisions with our interests and methods of calculating VAT in the introduction of products and purchases into the Republic of Croatia should go in favour of the economy. I therefore propose to consider equating VAT payment status to domestic agricultural production and food industry so that the transfer of tax obligations covers this sector and relates to all re-pro-materials Because that way the agricultural and food sectors would be in an equal position with [[Thank you very much.]] By entering products from the European Union. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12705	The next debate will be respected representatives of Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12706	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So in 2020, when the world and Croatia hit the sudden health and economic crisis, the Croatian Government decided to re-deploy our citizens and entrepreneurs. I think that's enough and that it's commendable and very surprising when one of our colleagues says today they won't support this package of laws. Namely, each of us here should speak for this speaker and represent the views of our citizens who have given us mandate and their votes, and I do not believe that they have given you any of the businessmen who will now have a reduced income tax or one of our citizens who will have higher incomes because of this, or if not higher incomes because they are already fully taxed and then their employer will have greater opportunities to stimulate or motivate them with some of the untaxable receipts. In this package of laws, we have a reduction in income tax from 12 to 10%, from 24 to 20, from 36 to 30, income tax from 12 to 10% and so on. But let's not forget what happened in the past tense. So not long ago, the Income Tax Act had tax rates depending on the level of the tax base of 24 and 36% and 12, 24, and 36% respectively, with a rate of 24% being applied by 2019 to 210 thousand kuna and from 2019 to 360 thousand kuna. A personal deduction has also been increased and it has been raised by a thousand and 400 kuna from 2,000 and 600 to 4000. All of this led to half the number of people paying income tax. So they were released just over a million and 800 thousand out of the total of 2,000 and 800 million they paid and were in income tax boxes as popularly said. And now we can see that there are two times as many as there were before, and some colleagues are of the opinion that a personal deduction should be increased means that there would be even more to free both 4/5 employees and employees in the Republic of Croatia. And yet we could hear on behalf of the IDS Club our colleague Demetlika saying it is unfair that 1/3 of employees carry the burden of all other employees. Furthermore, we swear very much to the economy and we appeal that there is a need to intervene as much as possible in the economy in order to increase their competitiveness on the market, and so it is also going to amend and supplement the Tax on Profits Act, which decreases from 12 to 10%. In earlier changes, too, it was dissipating and reducing, we had a profit tax from 20 to 18% for large and medium-sized enterprises, and 20 to 12% for small businesses. However, what was more significant was that it raised the threshold from 3 to 7.5 million kunas of income and thus allowed as many as 112 thousand entrepreneurs to pay a lower tax rate, i.e. 93% since 1 January 2020. If we add that it increased and minimally by more than 30% in the mandate of the previous government by 754 kuna, which is 3 times more than in the mandate of the previous three governments. The average salary was also raised by 1147 kuna, i.e. 20%, which is 6 times more than in the mandate of the SDP government, when the average salary is increased by 201 kuna. This, of course, increased both purchasing power and personal consumption. When we add that the salaries in the state service are more than 18%, the medics by 20%, educators by 23.5%, if VAT was reduced to basic food supplies from 25% to 13%, she would now say to Mr. Petrov, who provided incorrect data to help reduce the number of poor by 230 thousand of our citizens. Since 2017 alone, our citizens and entrepreneurs have been disbursed by more than 8 billion 210 million kuna. And time ran out, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12707	... But we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And my colleagues are Jurichev-Martinchev. First we have to, we can't mix pears and apples, the situation in which the SDP government was in isn't nearly the same one where the HDZ government is now, and so much more that you left us with a lot of skeletons in the closet, but that's aside. Don't, please, twist the thesis that someone's against unloading. However, we are in, but we are not as linear as you suggest, that those who have a lot get more, and those who have little get nothing, so I will repeat it once more, just for your information, but also for the Croatian public. Suppose they're going to grow wages, and they're not, most likely because most of them are agreed in net amounts, so pay, let's assume they're growing, from 4294 kuna and 40 limes will grow by 17 kuna and 60 limes. It's hardly a alignment with inflation, not some extra discharge or help to our citizens, let alone some pumping consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12709	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12710	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. It is important to know that in 2016 the lowest salary of €2689 was net in 2020, thanks to all these tax reform packages was €3738 net, which means it increased by 39%. Now we move on, the highest, higher wages, the 9th grade is increased from 9,000 nets to 10 416, which means 1400 kuna. That's 15.7%. So when we ignore the percentage than we're just talking about amounts, then we can see how much the pay is higher and how much lower this one is. When we talk about accepting a certain legal proposal, you can be either for or against it. If you're going to be against it, it means you're against reducing the income tax from 12 to 10% and what I've been counting on before. It's either for or against. There's no between.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12711	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12712	Dear colleagues, so you've been talking about how low the number of socially endangered, poor citizens has been. Do you, dear colleague, know how many people have moved out of Croatia? You've moved over 200,000 people out of Croatia. Over 200 grand. In 2019 it was those figures, now it's that, those figures are probably much larger. No Croatia without these people, no tax reform, no budget, no pension system, no state. You moved them out and you said they live well. They live well in Ireland and Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12713	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12714	Comrade Grmoy, I have referred to what your President Petrov said. So, with all this numbered, not to say again, the number of poor has decreased by an additional 230 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia. If, now, you'd have the same one on the subject of those criticisms that high pay even more, that there would be even more, you know who was also moving out in their own time? Doctors and here at this speaker were all very critical that we must keep doctors in Croatia, that we must give them high incomes because they deserve it. Among other things, criticism of who will have a lower rate of tax than 36 to 30%, among them is a very large number of doctors who are now on the first line of defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12715	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Grmoi has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12716	The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. 238. No one in today's debate means the Bridge wasn't against tax discharge. We're not the ones who say you don't need to tax-deliver those means that they have higher incomes, that's what doctors and others are. But we did make a proposal to help the most socially vulnerable. So direct direct children's allowance, fixed, means helping the most endangered of our families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12717	You know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a warning, I beg you not to do so. Do not abuse that institution, you have a replica, you can always replicate, whenever you consider it necessary, but do not abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have another replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12718	Thank you very much. My colleagues Juričev, you don't need to look back at MOST statistics because they have their own Statistics Office and let's say my colleague Bulj said the day before yesterday I think or yesterday that 500,000 Croats have moved out of the country, so his 200 is quite something else, so you don't have to call that heart... But I'll talk more about it in my debate. [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]] What's important is the word and what you said that wages grow for those who have lower salaries and those who have higher salaries. We heard remarks on the other side of those who had the chance to raise their wages, but they reduced it or at least stayed the same in some trouble at 4 g. And of course they know that from the opposition. It's up to us to keep doing this no matter what they're up against because we showed up at the 4th year. that people can understand that, so don't take your heart for what they're saying, simple wages need to grow even after this tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12719	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12720	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, it is true that we should not be minded, our citizens have recently shown in the elections who they trust and who they have rewarded with their vote for all those tax discharges and all those privileges and what could have been done at a given moment. Oh, yes, and surely it can always be more and better and that in the coming time it will be tried and realized. I would point out on this occasion that in late February, we had a million and 542 thousand insurance companies, and in mid-October, a million and 545 insurance companies, which is 3,000 and 200 more than before the crisis began. I believe very few countries have succeeded despite the crisis and the bad tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12721	Thank you very much. Here, why did you raise your hand? You can't, you've already had a break, give the people please read the final Rules of Procedure. [[I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.]] Well, finally read your Rules of Procedure, so you know how this HS works. People sent you here to work in a certain way and to arrange it and you have a Rules of Procedure, it's not very long, you can read it. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12722	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, the respected honourable MPs and MPs, the distinguished Minister Maric. Here we are facing changes to the laws aimed at discharging direct taxation, and they fall under the category of measures to save the economy, especially at this time of the pandemic covid. At this point, the pandemic almost does not exist and there are no economic operators that are not affected by its consequences, there is no economy that does not suffer losses, certainly there are no entrepreneurs who do not feel the burden of this major crisis. Certainly tax burdens, but we have many of them always been a burden to our entrepreneurs so that every discharge in this sense should be welcomed here today. The proposed measures are certainly liberating, but encouraging for entrepreneurs and craftsmen who generate revenue of up to 7.5 million kuna and for which the profit tax rate is reduced from 12 to 10%. The measures ahead of us aim to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, encourage new investments, primarily the private sector, and this should be a priority, and these measures are welcome in this respect. This round will ensure over 10 billion redundancies for the economy, and 2 billion will remain in the pockets of our citizens, and this will certainly be compensated from the budget that has been calculated for 2021 and this Balance Fund. This discharge is necessary because of the direct impact on the increase of the income available to all citizens and natural persons carrying out their own activity, as well as the regulation of the provisions on tax treatment of national compensation for, for older persons, all with the aim of reducing the risk of poverty and social exclusion, thus strengthening their material and legal security for persons receiving compensation. The reduction in tax burden and the increase in available income also increases the potential for increased household consumption, as well as contributes to strengthening economic competitiveness. I would like to stress here that the 5th round of tax reform is also determined by the tax recognition of the expenditure of credit institutions to write down claims from citizens and entrepreneurs. And this is very important because a large number of our entrepreneurs and citizens who are in some debt slavery will achieve a way to sign with banks the write-off of their claims, which will be tax-recognised expenditure so that the sale of claims by the Agency for Payment and request, which are not in the control system like other financial institutions. And certainly this provision relating to this claim by credit institutions will also relieve and lead to a better position for debtors and citizens, so that these changes give indirect incentives to citizens and entrepreneurs. And I therefore believe that this too will have positive financial and social consequences for our citizens. Thus, it would conclude that in fact this package of measures of the 5th round of tax reform, in line with the possibilities and budgets and the current economic situation, provides a real opportunity for further strengthening and restoring entrepreneurship and the economy, and as such is really needed by the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12723	Thank you. We have replicas of two seems to me, respectfully, to be the first respected representative, as many as three to me, is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you talk a lot about discharges, about helping citizens to help the economy, and then I ask you why you didn't agree to reduce the VAT rate to 10% when we're talking about it. The hospitality is one of the most affected branches precisely because of this health crisis. If you wanted to help the citizens so much why didn't you extend the moratorium to do so, I think it would help them a lot more than 17 kuna and 60 limes to get someone who has a salary net of 4,300 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12725	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12726	Well, I certainly thank my colleague Hajdukovic you simply do not want to admit that this government is doing well and that it is working on a simplified tax system and that it is working further with the dispensation of direct taxation, and we certainly expect in the future, I also look forward to the sixth round where I believe there will also be talks on these topics that you have just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12727	The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12728	Thank you, Vice President. You colleagues have said that this fifth round of tax reforms will lead to a reduced rate of risk of poverty in Croatia that has been growing in recent years. You have obviously skipped the latest statement and indicators of poverty and social exclusion which, less than a month ago, was published by the State Statistics Office, which said that the rate in 2019 was 23.3% and was extremely high and much higher than the EU average, and when we look at it specifically, it says that 7% of citizens live in households that cannot afford adequate heating, says that more than 50% of people live in households that cannot meet the unexpected financial costs of the household. For example, if someone left the washing machine they couldn't buy it in 50% of the households if they didn't take a new assignment either. On a credit card, or on a credit card. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12729	The answer of the respected representative Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12730	I thank the honourable MPs, we will definitely have a quick budget and budgeting in this Croatian Parliament, and you will see that in the next period, we expect to grow 5% of gross domestic product and employment growth in the following year. So this government is courageously dealing with all the challenges that await us and is working to further strengthen and restore and entrepreneurship and better social images of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12731	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12732	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you say this fifth round is discharging, tax cuts. Some of our citizens are being relieved, but companies would say something to you, and you give me an answer. 6% of GDP in the Republic of Croatia is from evicted Croats, who have been evicted lately, and that is why this economic growth is. You saw a moment ago when we came from the same county that in Varazdin County, Col. Strick listed numerous HDZ projects in his county, especially the HDZ chiefs. 3 years ago in Split was a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 2 billion kuna, tell me how much was done, not agreed, agreed or negotiated, so far these 2 billion projects have been implemented, as Minister Pavić also promised from the Trust Fund for Compensation of the Waste Billion, so can you colleagues list all these projects that were carried out in the Split-Dalmatia County of these desert discharges Except that people are young and gone. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12733	Dear representative Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12734	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, you're not reading the materials again, Mr. Bull, yet you don't understand much of it, and so is this fifth round of tax reform. So last time I told you what and how much the government of the Republic of Croatia invested in the Split-Dalmatia County, but it doesn't matter there is time today we explained everything to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12735	Here you go, buddy Bull. You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12736	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. An esteemed colleague injured Article 238, where she said I was not reading the materials, and I can only tell you of 2 billion kunas promised only by making a coalition with Benes and concessions with Kerum and nothing else, and mainly ask Minister Pavić to say, the former, which projects he gave in Dalmatia, zero, nothing, zero of 2 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12737	Since you already have a reminder then on the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Representative Pavić is you're up, I'm up I hope you haven't done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: What?]] Here you go. [[I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12738	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bulj injured Article 238, offended the MP, did not really read the materials, 5.5 billion kuna was invested in the Split-Dalmatia County of contracted EU projects, but when you have so many of these, Mr. Bulj, I will make an effort to make a list of all the projects that your municipalities are, you can verify and give up these projects and money if it is virtual, if it does not exist. Check with the public notebook, and we'll be glad to. The money is directed at other projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12739	Dear Representative Pavić, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. We are going to the next individual debate, and it will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12740	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I'm going to say one commendation to the government, and then they're going somewhere. I'm glad and I hope that we'll talk about it on that trail, and that's what you gave the minister this morning that as far as progressive reform is concerned, I think we'll argue there, but that some people are looking for a flat cab and that you want to hear other voices so that you have some kind of legitimacy to come up with some kind of deal. But I have to tell you that this proposal shows that you are still kneeling to neoliberal pressures and absolutely no one shares your opinion that this is progressive taxation. If progressive taxation is that two-thirds of people are not taxed because they belong to the category of the poor, then it's progressive taxation, but we can't agree that it's progressive taxation. But why is the problem also from some aspect of the practicality itself to say that it has caved in to neoliberal pressures, so we are reducing the income tax which, however, on the lowest scale, means one of the lowest income taxes in the EU, and now a reduction in income tax is planned, and that is the most for those who have the highest income incomes of more than 30,000 kunas gross. We have already said, for example, those with 25,000 kunas will get about 1,500 kuna while they will only get a few hundred kunas, and those with less will get almost nothing. But what is problematic and that is what the Workers' Front is constantly pointing out, not only this social aspect, I am glad that the colleague mentioned and the fact that we are at the most important we have really progressed on this scale of poverty and social exclusion, meaning not only from this social aspect but also from the aspect of pragmaticism because there is no analysis, there is no confirmation of what has been claimed here that the reduction of these tax rates will benefit Croatia's economic growth, there is no evidence. When we ask the question on what it's been carried out, so this is already the 5th wave of tax reforms of this kind that are all on the trail, I have to agree with economic analysts... reforms, then the question is how and on what basis. Well, there's no co-worker and co-worker that's just too much evidence that we should continue to go that regressive direction, so that progress turns into a regression that we have an equalization of tax rates on income and a reduction of tax rates for profit other than, and that's the social Darwinist idea that goes through all the proposals of this government, the idea that rich people make innovation promotes promise and even greater wealth and profits, while when it comes to the poor, it's claimed that there's no better incentive to work than to threaten them with even greater poverty. And that is in the subtext of all the reforms that we are looking at here, that those who are rich should be even more rewarded because it will encourage them into some huge investment that we don't see at all, and those who are poor should be even more disbursed because it's the only way we're going to encourage them to work. Such a social Darwinist component must be really expelled from our society. The minimum cost of living is colleagues and colleagues well below minimum wage, so raising minimum wages to 3,400 kunas does not also have any footholds, minimum wage must meet basic needs. This minimum wage does not meet the minimum needs, and we can say for sure that we can all agree. But what we lack, analysis of the minimum cost of life. Why isn't the DZS doing that consumer basket famous? Why don't we have a calculation of the minimum cost of your life? If we had that calculation, then we would see how much it's actually a gap between what we need and what we get in the form of income. What our intensity was the Workers' Front in this proposal of our tax rates is, above all, the poorest one, so put in a better position by raising that minimum wage to 5,000 kuna. After that raise tax rates 10, 20, 40, 80 will, of course, jump to these 80% in the United States in the 1950s 93% of the taxes for the richest we are... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12741	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peovic. You ask to be explained how by reducing the rate of income tax and profit tax, there is an increase in business activity. That's how you got into the debate about this tax reform. I will tell you very simply, so this 5th round of tax reform reduced and income tax rates was reduced in that sense by the employer's obligation to pay his employee's salary. At the same time, the profit tax rate for large employers was reduced, and for small people twice and at the same time, it was the answer to your question, we reduced the income tax rate, we reduced the profit tax rate comes to an increase in the income of the state budget and from the base of income tax and from the base of profit tax. In order to do so, this means that there has to be an increase in business activity precisely thanks to the reduction in these rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12743	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12744	Well, that surplus in the budget you keep pointing out, it's the consequence of conjuncture there even the SDP I have to defend even though I attack them always, but the fact that they were in worse statistical classes was more the consequence of the period in which we were not like your smart policies right now. And what deprives you is the fact that we have 1% of the seven savings that hold over 40% of the accumulated wealth in banks. It is 75 billion kuna in the hands of 51,000 people in Croatia, it is six taxes on profit six annual profit taxes that we will get away with from the obviously poorest. By reducing the rate of income to the poorest, they would encourage consumption because these people spend everything in the food products we produce, so they do not buy expensive products outside but buy our agricultural products and... agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12745	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12746	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Peovic, you asked questions about consumer baskets, so I remember that the last consumer baskets were actually union baskets if you remember. They always followed all HDZ governments by 2011 and then suddenly disappeared in 2012. You know why they disappeared? The SDP came to power they were aware that those baskets wouldn't be in there any more practically nothing after their 4 years. They simply banned them, I guess, in agreement with the unions, they disappeared. And now once again when HDZ comes to power again, they need to put those baskets back again so that the gentlemen who usually came here with various products of cabbage, salad, meat etc., they kept putting it here, bread especially not, if they wanted to be important no, so that they could explain how they took care of the poor with their picture and tone. Do you understand what I'm saying? So they shut them down because they were in the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12747	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12748	Well now why did the account of the consumer card that they last calculated not know whether Croatian trade unions amounted to more than 6,600-700 kuna, it should be investigated that you and the SDP agree on who is to blame, but the fact is that the Croatian government should order the calculation of the consumer basket as it is done in Slovenia where the minimum wage is almost double the amount of ours and is calculated according to the consumer basket, according to the basic cost of life of the road, and that means next year that minimum wage, which is about 900 and some EUR, will be even 20% higher than those minimum cost of life. And that would mean practically an average salary to us. I think our expenses are at an average salary level. So when someone says now, I think we're reaching that ideal of 60% of the average minimum wage salary, yes, but our average salary is so low that we can achieve that ideal too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12749	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12750	Good afternoon, nice greeting to all, Mr. Chairman-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, as here in these five minutes I will try to sum up the problems of a group of legal persons who have addressed us regarding the law on fiscalisation in cash or announced fiscalisation in the sale of self-service devices or appliances. They've come to us in a memo they sent us, and they've turned our attention to a few important things. Well, I believe Mr. Secretary knows that, but it hasn't burned again. They emphasized the high cost of the system line per machine, which accounts for as much as 10% of average annual traffic, which is a major burden. It is assumed that the cost of fiscalisation or installation of a device that will enable it by machine is slightly less than 1,200 kuna, so let's assume that there are about 10,000 devices in Croatia. self-service appliances, these costs are slightly less than 12 million kunas and companies operating with self-service appliances should be swallowed or removed from their pockets by the end of this year. Next thing you know, there's a little bit of attention that's got to be the problem with you. Telemetric systems or devices for setting up, connection at a distance and fiscalisation are not always stable that it is not always possible to do or achieve an Internet connection for the fiscalisation of individual sales. There is, of course, incompatibility since on the Croatian market we have self-service models on average about 15 years old. The entire activity, i.e. the economic branch of self-service devices, is a low-income activity. The ratio of investment in self-service devices compared to these required devices for the Internet connection is unfavourable. They usually have problems, of course there are frequent vandalisms, a cove of pandemics caused them a strong drop in income, liquidity problems. We are aware, of course, that the law was also a two-year deadline to prepare for such a system of operations, but I believe that this cost represents a serious expense for all of them, so let's look at the experiences of neighbouring countries in which the line system, for example in Hungary, scheduled a few days in a row and constantly had problems with the fall of so on. internet or connections. In neighbouring Slovenia, there is no such fiscalisation, there is no line model in Italy, but these devices are connected through a bluetooth connection, so here you may also consider giving them an additional adjustment deadline. The following association with which I was contacted this morning was the Association of Village Products, which currently has 84 self-service devices in Croatia, which we all like so popularly to call milkmati, puchumatati, oil and various mother who are also bonds of fiscalisation of each sale from January 1st next year. They have made a real request to you, Mr. Minister, because these are the OPGs who bought old used devices from already existing companies in the Croatian market. These appliances are 15 years old and 20 years old and simply have no technical ability to adapt to the new system. Well, please, we know, and we heard from their secretary of the association that they are in contact with the competent ministry and that they will probably go into subsidies, so here on behalf of the Homeland Movement we ask that these people come out because in case they have to take that money out of their pocket, they'll probably stop doing business in that way, and I'm sure it's absolutely not in anyone's interest. Thank you for understanding, and I believe you'll be able to help them. And here's another minute to let you know, here's what I believe is that you've seen on social networks, we've learned that 801 million kunas have disappeared since our pensions, if it's to believe the report from the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, I say the news is from social networks, so we're not entirely sure that's true, we'll check it out. In any case, this amount was taken from the second pension stake and it purchased shares of Agrokor companies that are currently worth practically zero. So here I believe that my colleagues and colleagues from the opposition in this will find another way to write another interesting interpretation, as far as we can see, it really, really, in the interpretation, turned into a great way here's a really great and good political discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12751	Thank you. We have several replicas, so please stay here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12752	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12753	She is the first respected representative of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12754	... Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dretar, you have raised here the question of the fiscalization of self-service devices that offer agricultural products. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to inform you that we have addressed this problem to the satisfaction of all manufacturers because the Ministry of Agriculture has listened to our proposals and for 100 such appliances according to our records in Croatia, means oil, milking, eggs, medomats, will be co-financed by the Ministry of Agriculture and thus the problem of fiscalisation will be solved. That's what Mr. Hadzic told me yesterday when he was at my place, so the association you're referring to today. ... [[/Speakers speak at the same time, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12755	I thank you very much for this information, and I'm glad we're in agreement and I'm glad we're here. I don't think you did it for us, but you did it great. It is important for us, of course, to preserve our OPGs and, among other things, to enable Croatian citizens to come to them with quality, fresh and domestic products, and to of course help all OPGs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12756	The next is Honorable Representative Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12757	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Dretar, I didn't consider you an expert on the pension system. If you're going to talk about it, don't make a fuss among the Croatian pensioners, pensions are safe. The second pillar... 70% of the second pillar was invested in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, 16% in other states' bonds, a small share in shares. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Payments from the second pillar are secure and pension funds have earned even earlier on Agrokor's shares. There have been certain losses, but when long-term investment appears to be over 5% of the contributions are made and there are among the better funds in the region. So don't bring any unrest amongst our pensioners, pensions are safe, pension column number two is also safe, these losses you said exist, but most of the funds are invested in the bonds of the state of the Republic of Croatia and as such are safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12758	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12759	Thank you very much. Here is the respected Mr. Pavić, I did not want to make any peace, of course, but the fact is that Croatian pensioners feel a terrible unrest once a month, which is when they see the amount of their pensions, and I believe that this amount is not so worrying, it represents only a few percent of the entire assets of the fund, but once again I say, we know for ourselves, pensions in Croatia, wages are not enough to make quality and normal living, let alone pensions. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12760	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12761	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's something I want to say about a package of tax laws, income tax, profit, VAT and the law on fiscalization of cash traffic. In fact, the government of Andrej Plenkovic decided on the 5th round of reform, changing in this debate the 4 laws, the minister said, will come in the second reading as always at the end of the financial year, and before the beginning of the next year, so that everyone knows what they are up to next year. The basic message of these changes is we cut taxes and leave it to the citizens and the economy in this round of 2 billion kunas from the last 4th tax round in total over 10 billion kunas 5.g. There has been a crystallization of the position here in this assembly during the debate, on the one hand the ruling HDZ coalition and partners to cut all taxes proposed through these laws, on the other hand the obvious opposition does not know, but mostly the views against it prevail. So it was in the campaign, unfortunately a little differently, let's remember, HDZ decided, promised, so tax cuts and the opposition promised tax cuts, but now that we've offered it, it's a slightly different story. Now we're talking in order of VAT, which bothers them, I think we should all welcome it, increasing the threshold for applying the taxation procedure according to the fees paid by 7... 15 million kuna effect on almost 150 000 entrepreneurs or almost 96,000 taxpayers who can choose how to tax. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Profit tax, a reduction in the tax rate of profit for entrepreneurs who generate income ranging from 7.5 million to 7.5 million kuna from 12 to 10%. Why are we against having two percent more to win, he doesn't understand, but we can accept. And through the Income Tax Act, lowering the income tax rate from 24 to 20, from 12 to 10 and from 36 to 30. Of course, this Income Tax Act will cause and this next Law on the financing of local self-government where the minister has already made public, practically this law is still I think it ended yesterday, I think the day before yesterday the public debate foresees that the share of the municipality or the city will increase from 60 to 74%, the county from 17 to 20, decentralised functions remain at 6%, and those 17% from the Fund for Fiscal Balance instead of the current payments by 576 local self-government states are taking over. Probably the opposition will be against it, we're certainly in. However, this is not just a debate and numbers or something just to talk about numbers, we heard the debate politically. Unfortunately, it surprised me that we had both left and far left and far right on the same side, same breath, no difference. That's why I was surprised by the definition of a club representative who is here today in his speech to his country, although through the word or saying of a saint, I called the state gang, the bandit state, unfair and false. It really bothered me, I couldn't react then, I don't know why the chairman didn't warn me because it obviously came to this by looking into the space of some others mostly to the minister, to the government, to us on the other side, and what's wrong? It's wrong that the lady obviously didn't realize that the state was paying the same lady, that those entrepreneurs she called were earning that she would have the same salary as the rest of us today. Why did it bother her, either these entrepreneurs or that same state, when there are clearly such people and politicians and entrepreneurs around her club who also in that country she called a gang simply earning their bread in all kinds of ways? They didn't refuse any bread or any privilege or any kuna, they created their own property, and everything was fine. When they joined in the movement then they took the country as a name, at that point obviously not the country that was called a gang here was a bad gentleman dear. It's hard words for your country, hard words. And if you don't understand, we'll try to explain. And then to cover all this, they're patrons of the poor with the highest rates in the parking lot, with some corruption tariffs and, of course, always in someone else's backyard, nothing with them. And these other bridge gentlemen who also teach us statistics during the day are clearly possessing some of their own and are always guilty and are always different from those states that Mr. Petrov says are fake of not being good, only theirs in the Bridge are good. And the message to those who call all the time for a reduction in the community. I am the head of one small municipality along with 427 others, respecting their value and development potential I advocate that they remain, and those who wish to abolish them, let them abolish their local self-governments just think a little about how the next year will address their voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12762	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Spijic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12763	Dear colleague Boric, can you answer me two questions, please? First of all, who has prevented you from making these reforms in the last 20 years that you are now doing when there is nothing when everything is ruined? You're cutting the profit tax, and I'm asking you who's going to get a profit in Croatia? Only companies that work with the state directly. And secondly, you mentioned Mrs. Caroline Kristo when she's not here right now, I ask you that Croatia owes more than 300 billion kuna, is that you who have ruled Croatia so far or have extraterrestrials done it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12764	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12765	Dear fellow Spajić I did not call anyone by any name, obviously you accepted it or noticed that the lady said no, you were probably sitting there and it didn't bother you, no. You said in a state like that you were an entrepreneur and that you made money when you made money, right? ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, you tortured okay, but you were an entrepreneur and you worked. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't consider my country to be either bandit or false or unjust no matter what happens sometimes when we can feel it. But to speak of your country in this way by hiding behind the Homeland Movement and the name that bears, let's say that name of my country, is beneath me every level. Because what's he saying? Does logic tell you what it says? Then what are you in the Homeland Movement if the state is bandit? So don't do it, it's my message, and I don't agree with it, and I can't accept it as an agent to talk about your country, your country. Whoever gave those sayings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12766	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Excuse me, Sandra Bencic. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12767	Thank you. So the opposition at least we from the Green-Left bloc are opposed to the linearity of this tax reform whose consequences will be that real wages will be raised only by those who already have high salaries, while those in the lowest paying classes will not even feel the consequences of this tax reform. So I'm asking you, wouldn't it be fairer if we introduced another 15% rate for the lowest tax classes that would make it possible for a more significant salary growth for all those who have a gross salary of up to 15,000 kuna, and if we had increased taxes for example our pay grade so that we could stay on the same? Wouldn't that be fairer in terms of social effects, but also macroeconomic because they would increase consumption and thus mitigate potential entry into recession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12768	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12769	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bencic. As for your proposals, I can say that all day long we've been explaining what's been going on through four circles so far and what's going to happen through this one. We made it clear how much something was 2016. How much today is in amounts, net amounts, and every time we listened to the debates just such stories, that they always get little, and that the big ones get a lot. No, and unfortunately you were wrong and that's what you're trying to put in today as an important moment of this whole story because you're trying to get us back in some old time where I spent a part of my life where they also assured us that everyone has equal rights and all have equal wages. They didn't have as much as I understand it then, no, it was likely for the directors and those who were in the party and the rate for others, no, but today is not the time. And don't tell us what we're doing isn't for the benefit of Croatian citizens, and you vote against, it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12770	The next is the replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12771	Thank you. Today, we are discussing income tax, which is the most important tax income of every municipality and city, because in the income side of every municipal city budget, it is the biggest one, that there is no such income, for example, so that municipalities can take care of local roads, waterways, kindergartens, extended school stay, school kitchen children and everything else that the municipalities or mayors of municipal councils are worried about. And that's why I'm surprised that there's more and more of this initiative that these small municipalities should be abolished, and the question is, if we're demographically especially in these small environments, how are those places going to live down in the first place? Will these places exist and who will take care of them if they are abolished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12772	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12773	Thank you very much. For a long time, we have been listening to the story of how 527 municipalities should be abolished, and probably some cities should be left behind, and the county should be abolished. These are proposals from people who mostly have parties in which they are alone or with a few other people, who do not behave anywhere at local level or parties that may have one of the leaders they have adopted. They just don't care what they're doing to end it, but where we're not. That's why I said, if you want to shut it down then let's say it right, and I don't know what's going on in some town, let's say that you can get rid of that city and then you can attach it to another city if it's better because I know what it looks like when you don't have a community. We are, I am the head of the municipality that was created in the last 2006 and I know what we've done in 14 years and what I've done in the past 50 years. It's just that there are big differences, and I don't approach that problem the way we just end it. Let's take a look at what this brings, regardless of the administration and some expenses. Who assures me it will be less in some other form.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12774	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the individual representative of Stipan Shahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12775	Dear Mr Vice-President, dear ministers, fellow Members of Parliament I welcome all together and would like in my discussion to look at these amendments and amendments of tax laws from the corner or to see how these units of local self-government experience, mainly units of local self-government from the area of Baranja, Slavonia and Srijem where I come from and which are largely now covered by this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. A large number of these units of local self-government were once part of or had the status of assisted areas or areas of special state concern. It was about six or seven years ago. And it was an important different way of funding, helping, etc., but the fact that at that time the priorities of these units of local self-government were significantly different than today. First of all, it was necessary to restore the decommissioned infrastructure, without even the existence of infrastructure such as schools, kindergartens, sacral facilities, roads, water system etc. A large part of these projects have also been realised and much has been done and done, unfortunately not yet caught up or achieved areas, more developed areas of the Republic of Croatia but are going in this direction. Today, in these areas there are significantly different needs and demands of the population and the most important and biggest problem that arises in these areas is the problem of unemployment, which then results in normal departure of young people and in some way a poor demographic picture in these areas. We are in the interest of all of us and in order to deal with this as soon as possible, so mainly local self-government units, which, in some ways, care for and care for our people about their areas, are taking over everything that is practically in their power in accordance with their own budgets, such as providing one-time financial assistance for each newborn child, it is currently a municipality where 7,500 kuna is even bigger, free kindergartens for all children, free books for children in schools, free diet in schools, transportation of students, subsidies to dormitories, loans to students all those who enroll in another year of study and a series of other measures that they consider necessary all in order to keep young people and generally in their premises. However, regardless of all the measures, there is a unit of local self-government that still does not succeed in this main goal, or retaining young people, and this is exactly where the tax policy is taking place, which is the only one that can, in some ways, change relations in these areas, stimulate investors, bring the businessmen into a position to reinvest profits, and in some ways create new jobs, ensure, ensure the employment and remaining of these young people there. It is precisely these tax changes, i.e. this tax package, both on income and on profit and VAT, that they are on the trail and are the best way to achieve this in some way and to disburse the economy and enable reinvestment and get into new jobs, into new jobs. We are aware that this does not go overnight, we are aware that the reduction in funds in the inflow of local self-government will in some way lead to certain gaps, but we have also seen the budget proposal for next year, we have also seen positive government efforts to secure funds to bridge that period if I cheat somewhere around 15 billion kuna is there provided for these needs. So it will simply allow units of local self-government to bridge that period until they can in some way say live off that income, from that newly created value created in their, in their spaces. I'd sort of simplify it and say, "We're creating conditions so we can hunt the fish ourselves so we don't have to wait." when someone's gonna give it to us. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12776	There's a replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12777	Thank you. Comrade Shashin, you have devoted most of your debate to the creation of jobs and the remnant of young people in these rural areas. Since if I'm wrong, I'm the head of the Draž municipality of a nice place on the very side of Serbia, Hungary and Croatia mean the border area of the team more you know how important it is that such communities have their own municipalities that they can decide their own fate. And among other things, in my debate, I highlighted and gave two, three examples from the Varazdin County area. So the municipality of Kneginec that has no municipal status would most likely be the dump of the City of Varazdin, and now there is one of the most prospective business zones that employs a thousand and a few people, about 50 entrepreneurs, and one of which is a large part of these investors entrepreneurs outside, also the Municipality of Yalzabet, Vidovec, and that I do not orderly list. We generally think of allowing these environments and people to decide for themselves the fate of their place and their destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12778	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12779	I agree with my colleague absolutely with you, and it's really absurd that we have a situation where individuals who are willing to worry about the budgets of local self-government units, that in some way we will remain short sleeves, at the same time suggest that these units of local self-government be abolished, which is not good in any case, and I think that without these units of local self-government many areas today would look much, much more underdeveloped, much worse because units of local self-government through EU projects, etc., not only build infrastructure but they become the main holders of life in those areas. We just can't imagine all the associations, all that to just feed it without those municipalities. Really don't ask the mayor of the municipalities just, ask the people who live there so you'll hear their answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12780	Thank you. The next individual debate is distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear Director of the IRS. Dear fellow MPs, fellow parliamentary representatives. As the promoter said this morning, it seems to me that tax policy is part of the overall economic policy, and all with the aim of growing investment, employment, wages and competitiveness. I believe that this tax reform, too, of the 5th wave of these unique tax reforms, will contribute to these objectives. My predecessors, here are the few who spoke before me, most likely referred to units of local self-government, and to me it was my intention, since I was also the leader of one of the local self-government units in Slavonia, so a little more look back. We see that through the proposal to amend the Income Tax Act around 2 billion kunas should be less income, but it looks forward to the announcement that everything will be compensated to local self-government units. Among the four laws in the first reading is not the fifth Law on the financing of local self-government units, which stipulates that the distribution of income taxes will increase to 74 that go to municipalities and cities, that those 17% going towards the counties will increase to 20% of the income and also that all those who base new calculations will eventually go worse than it has been so far that the state will be further involved directly as current aid from the state budget. I would say excellent from the position units of local self-government, but equally expected. Expected when it comes to a proposal that came from the government headed by Mr. Plenkovic and in which the finance minister is Mr. Zdravko Maric. Why do I say expected? Is it in previous stages of tax reform if we remember a three-year period when tax reform came, then we can say we witnessed so little and in a certain amount of infidelity by the head of the unit of local self-government that indeed the state will make up for all what was planned for them to be deprived of the income tax when the rates began to decrease and when they explained to us that the compensation measures after the application of that formula of the total tax capacity and by the head of the population, so the difference to the average, so the head of the population we all looked at in these calculations ourselves, not believing that it would be so. But here's how we were told that everything was actually done. And I'm pleased that the future units of local self-government will be able to count on state aid. I can testify that it is similar in Slavonia as in Varazdin County we were able to hear that Slavonia, my Đakovo, village in Djakovština, was transformed into construction sites. Not by chance, along with the Slavonia project, the tax reform, or compensation measures that were then taken where we all got extra oxygen, also contributed to it, we got wings for one take-off. All cities, all municipalities in Slavonia, regardless of who is at the head of whether someone from HDZ or from some other political options, have all been more or less better compared to how it used to be with income tax, are all full of projects that count in dozens somewhere and hundreds of millions of kunas, which in realisation, which in the planning phase. And I can thank you on this occasion, perhaps on behalf of the head of the local self-government units, which is how it was, I hope that it will be in the future. What we need, we actually need continuity to catch up with the rest of Croatia. We are not happy that we are below average, which helps us, we would be happy that in the future we will be those of whom they will eventually be taken and given to others. This isn't the ideal position for us. For the last three years, we've made good use of, we've put a lot of money into project documentation in the preparation of projects. But I would also refer to some thinking that a colleague who comes from some more fiscally wealthy units of local self-government should not be helped by undeveloped people. I don't think they're right, I think the only way we can help is to reach that average so that you can give God help tomorrow. But simply these three years this is not enough to achieve that process. We need continuity, continuity of a minimum of 20, 30 years at this level. It may sound a lot, but for decades we've been running the wrong policies towards Slavonia, and it can't be made up in a few years, we need 20-30 years. with this continuity at this rate to achieve other developed ends RH. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12782	Time. We have 3 replicas, the first distinguished representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12783	Here's an esteemed colleague, when you talk about continuity, I can say that the continuity of HDZ is that one thing he says in the pre-election campaign, and then when he comes to power, then he forgets it, so here I am now reading what your then President Karamarko said in the pre-election campaign. Therefore, HDZ will reform the local administration in such a way that the number of counties remains the same while the number of municipalities could be rationalised or reduced. We believe that units of local administrations and self-government or municipalities must function as much as possible on the basis of self-sufficiency without additional aid from the state beyond the regular revenues of the municipalities from taxes and fees etc., etc. And then Minister Malenica also in a pre-election campaign ahead of the parliamentary elections stressed that the first thing to do is to run an analysis that would put municipalities into certain categories, you have municipalities with several hundred inhabitants and those with several thousand, of course, that they do not have the same capacity to do all the jobs, but we'd be going into some kind of reform. [[Intruder: Time]] So that's what you always talk about in the election campaign, and after that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12784	Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12785	In order not to waste my time answering, I'm just going to say that I'm sharing my opinion with Mr. Boric, who, just a few minutes ago, elaborated on the importance of JLS, I can say I think very much alike. And as for JLS's many times, we are imputed that, as such, we may not have to, that there is too much money, that public money is being spent needlessly, that they may be at the expense of some local leaders who just, I don't know, write travel orders and eat lambs, but they have proved to be the engine of development not only of economic but of social and cultural society in, especially in the remote regions of the Republic of Croatia. I think they are necessary, they should stay and work on them further and fiscally strengthen them. Not everything can be in Zagreb. We've been building for decades, centralizing the state, and I finally think that the time has come, and the level of awareness of some rule of law that you need to decentralize the state, of course and fiscally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12786	Time. ... Next replica, please don't comment from the bench, next replica the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12787	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, here's the whole day we've been hearing about the proposal for further tax discharges during the '21st year, but here's what you said, we're not happy that we're below average, that it's not our fault that we're below average, and that fiscally rich regional self-government units are here to help us, so to speak, I hope that injustice against Slavonia is correct, and one of these ways is exactly the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as much as others jump and say it isn't. So far, 88% of allocation funds have been paid off. So anyway, without this project, Slavonia would be even poorer, and here I am happy, and I welcome that it will continue in such conditions as are now difficult for the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12788	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12789	I'd like to thank my colleagues Maximchuk. Here's the good you've noticed, very similar, we're very much alike here in the line of thought. You also come from Slavonia, me from Đakov, from Grud, it's very close, it's approximately equal. What we need is, it's further support. I, when I look at the Osijek-Baranja County all JLS except one city, except the city of Osijek are actually recipients of funds from the rural fiscal balancing fund. It's not an accident. It's not my fault. It's not your fault. Okay, back a few years ago, we started to change it, but it can't be changed by 2-3. It also takes decades of proper policies to correct the situation in order to catch up with the others. Of course, the Slavonia project in which we put great hopes will help greatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12790	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12791	Thank you. Comrade Mandaric, in this debate, you have pointed out that the same treatment or we can say the same principles, criteria, principles apply to all municipalities and cities. In the area of the Varazdin County 11 mid-caps and towns, HDZ officials, 9 HNSs, 3 HSS and 2 SDPs, one centre runs the HSLS mayor's and 2 are non-partisan officials and any of them ask if they had any problems in reporting to a state-level competition, I'm sure each of them will say there were no favors. However, it helped everyone and every one of these environments, I say, no matter which political option to run it is a major construction site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12792	A similar situation, similar to that of you in Varazdin County and Slavonia, is also not HDZ everywhere in power, there are people from other political options that, hand to heart, well run their JLS worth and do their job fairly. And some general impression is that you say it's not like it used to be, yeah if you're not politically harmonised local government with national authorities, the doors of all ministries are closed. And that's something that is particularly appreciated and others, I say, by fellow JLS leaders who are not HDZ leaders. Of course, they can't say it publicly, it wouldn't be politically correct of them and, and I understand them, but in informal talks, everyone admits it and actually respects this HDZ government and the past, which has changed the way it works with JLS that are not politically in line with national authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12793	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12794	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, so tax reform in agriculture is one of the key factors in raising agriculture's competitiveness. The unification and creation of conditions similar to those in which agricultural producers from our nearest but overall European environment represent a common market are imposed as an necessity. If we want to preserve and protect domestic agricultural and food production, we must start by introducing all the tools and mechanisms available to us and are in line with European practice and regulation. Croatia has the highest VAT rate on food in Europe with Denmark and Sweden. In other countries, it ranges from 0 to 24, 24% has Greece, and 0% has most agricultural food products in Ireland or the UK. Among the highest VAT rates, we have them on agricultural impasses, so 13% and 25%. From Croatia, only Hungary has a higher rate than 27. In addition to having the highest VAT rates on food, agricultural re-promaterials and machinery, we do not use instruments to reduce the tax burden on agricultural producers available to us under Council Directive 2006/112 of 28 November 2006 on the common VAT system, etc. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The flat-rate compensation for farmers benefits 18 of the 28 countries, mostly those that are the most agricultural and developed. Without a reduction in VAT, there are also reductions and partial suspensions of excise duties on energy, a reduction in the price of tolls with the introduction of vignettes and a reduction in the prices of utility services of water and other directors and the elimination of the additional costs seen in the utility bills, electricity, etc., there is no progress in Croatia. There should certainly prevent everything that additionally costs such as large solar and biogas energy with subsidized prices that have emerged under the auspices of Ministers Vrdoljak and Coric in very strange circumstances, and at the expense of citizens and the economy. Instead of going to a lot of small energy plants that would benefit directly from citizens, businessmen and farmers. All this has been done wrong in recent years. There have also been cases that the minimum wage has been slightly increased by today's measures, but soon beyond that, some of the vital cost of living has accumulated and has actually actuated this wage growth. Only reducing the cost of life and work can contribute to a better standard and a decent life for citizens, as well as to the development and competitiveness of the economy. This requires restructuring of state and local administrations with a reduction in costs in segments, in all segments. It also controls and reduces costs in state and local companies providing services to citizens and the economy which should result in lower prices for their services. The reduction of excise duties and prices in all sectors that are relevant to citizens and the economy in order to make the prices more adjusted to the salaries and standards of citizens, and all for the purpose of decent life and economic development. It is necessary to introduce more control and limit energy prices and other costs of living and working. This is exactly what should be the most important goal of all governments in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this has not been done but has actually been a similar employment for years which has led to enormous costs in all segments, and this has also been the case for spending on citizens and the economy. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act, what we are offered is certainly not a proposal that serves to create a stimulating and competitive business environment. The tax cut from 12 to 10% at the time of the crown when we're recording the decline in income doesn't mean anything at all. If you want the profit tax to serve to create a stimulating and competitive business environment, then you need to make the following changes. So, above all, the abolishing of taxes on reinvested profits and what is extremely important for the future of the Croatian village is the abolition of the pay of income tax and income on rural development aid and resources in agriculture obtained from the EU. I note, that Croatia is one of the few EU member states that, despite the failure of agricultural production and food production and a relaxed rural area, taxes its farmers' incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12795	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs, you spoke of the need to introduce a flat-rate compensation that partially compensates the costs of VAT calculated on the farmer's inputs. Yesterday we addressed the subject and addressed it to the Minister of Agriculture who said it was an analysis at the Ministry of Agriculture so that certain solutions could be proposed with this tax reform which we are in fact dispensing both citizens and farmers with 10 billion kuna, and that will be even more. We can say that there are also farmers that we help them and that they will have benefits from it, but it is absolutely certain that we must look for other solutions to facilitate their business and help Croatian agricultural product find its market easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12797	Thank you very much, dear colleague Petyr, that's how we opened the subject yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, and indeed the minister seemed to have an understanding. It is one of the legal legal models to further strengthen our farmers because they obviously need help. Some member states even have various hidden support measures, so why don't Croatia use those that are legally and easily available, so it's one of a series of opportunities that we can use to strengthen farmers because really looking at the state from day to day those who are really working, create are in serious problems, report, pray for help, and I say this is an available institute so let's make an effort to compose it to the next changes to the law or new budget to allow them and to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12798	Another replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12799	Thank you very much, Vice President. You're criticising a reduction in profit tax in 2020 at the time of the crown crisis because you say no one works. How do you explain the fact that in this year 2020, more than 28,000 applicants or entrepreneurs rewarded their employees with an appropriate reward of up to 3,000 kuna and additionally over 37,000 entrepreneurs rewarded with an addition of up to 5,000 to a monthly salary with a billion and 300 million kuna? This is the data that says that there are a lot of entrepreneurs working, doing, and that will certainly mean this reduction because they can additionally reward their employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12800	Thank you, dear colleague Martinchev. So we didn't understand each other, I don't think it's important enough segment. In my opinion, this is a moment where we actually record a fall in income when we talk about those companies that are taxpayers of profit. I think we have a lot of stronger opportunities to help entrepreneurs, so I think, among other things, that we should actually cancel paying taxes on reinvested profits. It's a very important category and it would help, I trust a far larger number of entrepreneurs. But I'm looking at this whole story from the point of view of someone who looks at farmers and the situation on the ground. We have a small number of those who are taxpayers of profit, far more which are taxpayers of income tax. So if we talk about the segment of food production, life in the country, the survival of the rural area, and Croatia is mostly rural, we have to look for other models to help if we want to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12801	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12802	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the joint debate, I'd like to look back on the agenda point that is related to income tax. That's what I'm saying for a number of reasons, and one of these is certainly because the SDP has also submitted its bill. Why do I think our proposal is good? I think we can all find one thing here, and the other is the political will and of course the solutions that have been called and responsible for bringing people into this high house. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere around 6,700 kuna, one of its good parts is taxed through income tax. I think most of us would also agree that most citizens who have such incomes or have slightly less de facto live from minus to minus, so they're waiting for pay to cover their own minus. Covering your minus. Why? Because he's spending if he has to pay for something, he has to pay for something to survive. It means that the moment I'm speaking now from the state aspect, the moment I get that income tax on these salaries, that there are up to 7,000 kunas, depending on the cost of life that someone here was talking about that we know whether or not we have, that's why what's being scattered doesn't lose the state. The state doesn't lose because that money, because it spends so it goes from minus to minus, is not to put it aside or put it in the bank, it gets through VAT. It's that part of the citizens who are always double taxed, first through income tax, and then through value added tax. We can talk through simulations of course about what percentages are, whether it's a lot, whether it's a little bit etc., but when that part of the dispensing state by me gets the most on VAT, getting on VAT can relieve VAT from the economy in some segments, I know that there were words from restaurants, caterers, hotelers or anything else. By dispensing a little higher wages to those who let's say that basket to someone that's 5,000 kunas, some are 10,000 of them dispensing it, so there are people who certainly depend on pay, earn more than they spend, and then of course they save it. Saving the income tax that's tied to the savings is small, let's put our hand on the heart. Every policy later has its share, we hear that even unions have they would have more range and more class and that's it. In doing so, regardless of the government, regardless of the government, every time a decision on tax discharge is made, there has always been a de facto speech here that is good for anyone who is ruling. Long live the Prime Minister, has raised our salaries by cutting income taxes and the fact is that it deprives parts of the income that are related to local self-government units, cities and municipalities, and fellow Boric are a little more vulnerable than the counties, the grains, the grains more vulnerable, for, due to the distribution of income simply which is. And well, in the debate I also held Mr. Maric, certain compensatory measures were announced, of course, which I hope will be, that they will be compensated. But the thing is politics, it's a matter of policy that we're going to charge more, who we're going to charge less, the thing that we're going to burden more and who we're going to burden less. And of course after that we'll all go out to the voters, now that someone's gonna call it this super-shy law, he's free to do it. Here, thank you. Mr.... reported for replication. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] We were waving, so I'm asking. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's a thank you, then I'd step away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12803	We have a replica, just a little bit, please have one replica. Mr. Fabianic, one replica of Mr. Boric. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12804	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted this colleague Fabianic to do this extra, so when we talk about changing this income tax in a few circles, and during this government, the previous government, and we had a change at the end of the government's mandate, led by Zoran Milanovic. The difference is that no matter what the foundations were raised, we were simply left without income in that government of yours, I mean Zoran Milanovic, but we were not compensated. This, this minister and this government compensated every increase in the base that went to harm then JLS in their... And we didn't have less income on the income tax division that we were getting than we were getting more or less as much as we had a year ago. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a difference and this law goes in favor of these Countys of the Primorsko-Gorski if I understand it well no. The percentage is slightly higher than it's ever been before, and the state has taken it upon itself to pay what we've been paying for from what we've been paying for. The Alignment Fund. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12805	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12806	So I have to admit, so it's announced, so we'll see. But there's only one difference between me and you, Mr. Boric, I'm talking about the present and the future, you're talking about the past. Thank you. Any more replicas?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12807	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12808	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad there's more of us out here in the late afternoon. I think these proposals for new laws, tax laws, are very important and deserve our attention and, and, and, and the effort to make a quality debate happen to the end. I will repeat once again that the state as such does not create additional values, but is subtracting through taxes from companies and citizens and distributes that money according to its priorities. Today we heard a lot about neoliberalism, we heard a complaint that they, I heard about 7,000 citizens paying this highest rate of 36% will now hold on to something more than before and that it is a new injustice and so on. I'd set things up a little differently. We should ask why there are only 7,000 people in Croatia who, who have such a profit? We want a prosperous country that will manage to keep its people, not in this competitive environment to lose still in large numbers every year of the working-age population. That's what we need to be comforted and worried about here. In what way? Today on one... I heard the portal, I read the data that according to one study in Switzerland, which measures the actual success of every country in retaining the highest-quality and most educated people that Croatia is located this year at 53rd place of 63rd, so at the bottom. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have urgent things to fix that those who want to create have creativity, ability and the like do not leave Croatia, not to talk about doctors, nurses and the like. So there's a different question here, why are there only 7,000 people in that category? It is not Croatia's biggest problem that they will pay tomorrow instead of 36% of 30%. There's something I'd like to say about the structure of the budget. I continue to point out that the share of the total state in GDP, so public spending, is somewhere in the data, about 50% is too high. Compared to other countries, the newer EU members, we are at the top and we are simply not competitive. The state costs too much, it's huge, the public sector is huge, and we just can't afford it anymore. And this often-expected stability has its price. So, expenditure goes up every year, I repeat, expenditure goes up every year, no matter what population is in decline. So there's less and less of us, and there's less and less of the basis from which the state can be financed, and the expenditures are growing. So it's like she's an insatiable octopus who keeps asking for more and more. There's a problem. So, this is, we are, in principle, going to say, every discharge, in principle to support, but it seems in this case, since so many people have already left Croatia that it is said to be too small, too late. We should have done these measures a long time ago. A lot sooner, because there's less of us. As for public spending for the functioning of public authorities, so executive, legislative authorities, payment of interest on public debt, only Greece singles out more of Croatia as far as public spending is concerned, in this part, so the state and financing of all this is with us, we are at the very top, only the Greeks are more concerned and we should be concerned, so we will continue to appeal to reduce the role of the entire state and that economic freedoms are growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12809	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12810	Well, I'd like to answer your question why there are only 7,000 people who fall into the highest tax class of the current 36% rate, or future rate, probably 30. So for the simple reason that in Croatia, the largest number of people who earn and own are, for example, companies pay their minimum wage, and the funds are derived from the company through profits and profits because they pay a 12% tax. So the reason for this is that we do not have a synthetic income tax that at the same rates would cover all types of income, so both those of work and those of capital and property. No, we have a system that favors income, i.e. capital income from property against income from work. The work we do is load a lot, and the capital and the property a little. That's why we're El Dorado for the rich, but we're a stepmother state for all those who have small or medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12811	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12812	I'll go again.../incomprehensible/... thank you, thank you for asking. I'll say again that I see as the main cause of it again that the state is too expensive and takes it simply, it's insatiable, it takes as much as it takes and too much, so. Why do people sign up for a minimal? Why? Because many.../incomprehensible/... or employers, why do employers report their workers to a minimal? Because they don't want to pay high contributions and they've been doing it for years and the state is back at a loss, it's at a loss again. So the grey economy, I can't say 100% now because I don't have the data in front of me, but everyone knows that the gray economy is big in Croatia because of the high VAT rate. Many consciously avoid paying taxes, and this is difficult to change as VAT remains the main source of budget financing, including pensions. To be honest, pensions can be safe, but they're largely funded by VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12813	The next replica is Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12814	Dear Mr. Bartulic, I absolutely agree with you that we should have as many as possible, a lot more than 7,000 of those who make a lot more money, right? Probably that they would... We should work harder, no one mentioned or talked about this today about how we should probably do more to raise the average income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to those who do not have enough 7 thousand kunas, and live in large cities, I would tell them to come to Baranja, there with 7 thousand kunas will be perfectly decent to live, they will have clean air, clean water, they will be able to do gardens, etc., means ecologically healthy living, and today we really have such a process that a really large number of people slowly come to these parts, recognize the advantages of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12815	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12816	Thank you for that, and I certainly believe that this is true, that there are great advantages to cities, to living in smaller places, I agree with that. However, what I will do again, the main problem here is that too few create and work, too few people, those who return to Croatia are those who want to spend the last years of their lives in Croatia at the beginning of working life, unfortunately, those who leave us. And here we have it, already these measures, however desirable they are, are too late because simply demographically we've already lost, in a large part, the, uh, battle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12817	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12818	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The satisfaction today that we can discuss the 5th round of tax reform, as we have already heard, total of these 5 circles, 10 billion kuna discharge, tax discharge. We are all very sensitive to our young people, we are all aware of the issues of demographics, we are all aware of the departure of our young people, but let's look at what we have done for these people through the last four, and that is with this 5th round of tax reforms, but, as the Deputy Prime Minister says, it is not a tax reform response at all. We also have different other measures, but let's sum up what has been done for young people so far. Well, for starters, young to 25 don't pay income taxes anymore. 50% of income tax is paid from 25 to 30 years old. Those who are up to 30 years old, if they get a contract indefinitely, have been released for 5 years by their employers of gross II payments. contributes. This led to over 78 thousand young people being transferred to contracts indefinitely. We are still aware of the issue of premium work, but what is the role of the state cannot force employers to grant contracts indefinitely, but these encourage them. When we talk there were some criticisms from the opposition that this is a super hick reform, let's look at what the total tax burden on wages is. When we look at lower incomes, we have one of the lowest tax burdens of 1.9 million people do not pay taxes or are outside tax scissors. And just when we talk about what else tax reform can do, so she has her own reach, and if 1.9 million people don't pay income tax whatever we do with those rates, they're still not going to pay income tax. And this descent from 24 to 20 or 36 to 30 is exactly going to those professions that can pay extra value, which can pay more. We're all full of mouths just as different and Roman, impobives, nanobits, and they hire just engineers who have salaries in this tax class. Therefore, if we want a country of knowledge, if we want new technologies, we need to enable young people who can reach higher pay classes and tax discharges. So when we look at all that tax reform has brought to the young, yes, it has brought more income and safer labour contracts. The downturn of 12 to 10% of the youth profit tax is also directed to entrepreneurship. But tax reform is not everything, we also have active employment policy measures, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has raised the self-employment rate from 25,000 kuna to 100,000 kuna since 1.1. next year 130,000 kuna. In other words, a young person or another who wants to open his own company and self-employed person can receive almost EUR 20,000. To compare when I was in Great Britain when I spoke then Minister Sharma's incentives in Britain were £2,000 to open my own business. That's what we're doing. professional training without abolishing employment relations where mostly young people for minimum wage went to work in the public sector and went back to the stock market we encouraged that on average not 2,000 but 6,000 mostly young people open their own companies. When we look at EU funds, many credits for entrepreneurs have just been motor power. Employment programmes, different projects like IPSE, which I have already talked about where the state of EUR 100 million will invest in the development of batteries and campuses of Mr. Rimco, EUR 50 million for the gaming industry, in total when we look at the fifth round of tax reform contributes to young people, contributes to their remainder in the Republic of Croatia and strengthens those who can earn it and stay in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12819	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12820	Mr. Pavic, first, young people need to get a chance to work at all. You have also called for government measures and budgets, but look yourself on the page, between pages 153 and 56 in the draft budget of the Central State Office for Demography and youth is of 2.02 billion kuna, which is quite a sum we would say 92% go to the birth and parent benefits item that you think 1% just leaves youth policies, support for youth-oriented programmes, prevention of violence among young people, so you'll get to work from diapers. Well, I guess there's got to be a period and something else that would encourage young people, we can't all call for demographics, so demographics can't be just 2 billion, of 2 billion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12821	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12822	Thank you very much. Mrs. Boric, I hope you are aware that it is not only the budget of the Central State Youth Office that we invest in young people. We have a huge amount of money going into education, we have active employment policy measures 8 billion kunas invested in employment, 8 billion kunas invested in protecting 600,000 jobs, many of which have young 110,000 jobs more. You speak to one item in the budget, I am telling you this one broader view where we both have EU funds and national funds and employment programmes and tax reform, 78.000 more contracts that young people have transferred, their employers have moved to indefinitely. So it's not your thesis at all, we're tracking young people from birth support to parents, from that education programme to the employment programme, and their budget is distributed through different items. You were only talking about one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12823	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12824	Thank you. A respected colleague listening to your praises for the government measures in which you participated and these active measures, listening to how you call reform something that reform did not feel a mere shame on behalf of all Croatian citizens who did not feel any positive shift or effect from all the measures that you so strongly praise. During today, we heard from various opposition clubs that the right to reform implies reducing the cost of the state, implementing a territorial reconstruction, reducing parafiscal burdens, all that Croatia has been waiting for decades. None of the above not only did you not spend, but you showed no elemental intention to do so. My question is, if it can be assumed that the measures we are discussing today will have a negative impact on the revenues of local units when, literally, when you're going to implement a reduction in the number of cities, counties, municipalities?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12825	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12826	Mrs. Oreshkovic, you've had the opportunity to have so many citizens with you now that you'd be here in power, you'd be talking about tax reform, you'd suggest... You had your chance, the citizens said theirs a few months ago. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we are in the second term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, to have you angry, we have 110,000 jobs more, yes, citizens have given support to this option, live with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12827	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. This 5th round of tax reforms was supposed to cause, I'd say a general euphoria in HS. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that all parliamentary representatives have the right to be in the Assembly in these halls, which are determined of course because of epidemiological measures. But there are as many of us in the House as there are, and these halls are all absolutely empty here, and I think that's something that clearly shows how much we care about some things at all. I don't have a problem with someone who's smarter than me, who knows more about any subject than me agreeing with him. I think Mr. Lalovac knows the problem of finance, taxes and that and what he says makes sense. There's no problem with agreeing with Mrs. Peovic who says that maybe local administrations, self-governments spend money the way they shouldn't. But I have problems making peace that everything HDZ proposes, that everything HDZ wants to do better for this country, which, of course, causes a conviction, is something that is unacceptable. If he had suggested someone else, it would have been top-of-the-line, that would have been great, but HDZ is dangerous. When HDZ proposes something, it is first and foremost dangerous for entrepreneurs, workers and then for the entire Croatian population. That's incorrect, that's not incorrect, that's unfair. The 5th round of tax reforms, meaning the 5th round, this is not the 1st round, the 5th round clearly shows what has been done in these five years when it comes to a better standard of living at the level of the Republic of Croatia. That he's enough? It's not. Is he tall? It's not. Can it be better? It's got to be better. It's our job to sit here in HS. But many parliamentary deputies, they're not here, and I'm sorry they're not here, would return the lobotomy. Lobotomy was abolished somewhere in the mid-20th century, and in Russia, I think Russia was the last one to end the lobotomy, but they'd still be dealing with it, so they'd brainwash us, tell us that we're criminals, thieves, that we should put us in the place that belongs to us, that Ivo Sanader is the man who has some black bags, and in them rows sits the man who saw that black bag up close, saw what's in that black bag. I've been in HDZ for 30 years and I've never seen the black bag of Ivo Sanader, and many of them sitting here have seen that bag and they've been taking it out of the bag, and now they're more honest, washed, bathed, and they're giving us a lesson about how the Croatian state should look in front of us. Well, you see, that's not fair. I confess amnesia and each of us has a chance in life to repent of something bad he did and I'm here as a man of faith I'll forgive him and tell him you were seduced, you didn't know what you were doing, so here I'll forgive you. But to point it out completely as something that's rigid to this side of our side here in HDZ, I don't think it's absolutely appropriate. I'll tell you one case, and I'll end it. I always have one thing in mind, '91. In the years of the White Manastir, two men were killed, one was Pavo Earthling, he was the head of a high school in the White Manastir, and the other was Vladimir Earthling, that was his underage son. And you know why the Chetniks killed them? Just because they had a HDZ card in their pocket. In memory of these people, I will argue that the lobotomy that wishes to be carried out here by HDZ members, according to the government of Andrej Plenkovic, never comes back to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12829	We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12830	Your Honor, by the amount of elemental stupidity you've said, you've surpassed the average HDZ. I don't know who you were thinking about when you were talking about some bags, did you think about those bags that your colleague Bačić was carrying, never saw what was in them or where the HDZ black funds are filling up, are you talking about these bags today? I would also like to say that your five reforms or five rounds of reforms for Croatian citizens represent five circles of hell you've been through. You did not achieve any good during the previous government or in the former. The lossful state shows statistics on Croatia's location in the EU today. At the bottom and we sink further and further away. Is that a thank you for presenting yourself in front of the opposition? And don't just tell me again as you keep saying you and your colleagues, that you've been given the opportunity in these elections because the citizens have given you trust. Well, I'd be ashamed to rule at 16.4% of the total number and percentage of the electoral body. It's not a good supply for the future, ask yourself that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12831	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12832	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, I appreciate your amount of energy you have here in about 18 hours, but what you're saying is very dangerous. You're a woman who deals with law, who protects people from exactly this kind of thing that you're doing right here, I don't know what you're caused to do, but, dear God, it's your personal thing, it's your habitat probably, it's your plantings where you rest. I don't want to offend anyone, I don't want to tell anyone that he's talking nonsense, this is just as much my pay phone as yours, ma'am. Oreshkovic, and you may have been talking nonsense here, and, dear God, you chose to talk like that. Therefore, I considered you to be a person who is much more correct in acting as an honorary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12833	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12834	Thank you very much, Vice President. Art. 238, ma'am. Oreshkovic again does not know how to behave in the assembly and insults all HDZ members, he calls us stupid. And we're not stupid and we don't forget, you understand? And Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic, you have a lady in the club who has been convicted of multiple conflicts of interest and you do not mind in your moral importance. You don't mind, you don't mind her transition from one coalition to your club to earn the salary of a club president, to make it a little more. Your morality doesn't exist, it's a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12835	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a warning. Dear Representative Marko Pavić has the next injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12836	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, ma'am. Oreskovic repeatedly insults HDZ representatives. If we calculate, I don't know what your percentage is, ma'am. Oreshkovic, 0.0001, negligible, again, you are jealous because you are not in power, but it is your business, but your aggression that you show in this House, the way you insult, speaking to HDZ representatives is below all levels. Mr. Boric made it very clear, and at your club, clean up first at your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12837	And you said exactly that she was insulting, but everything else was a replica, and so was your warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12838	So the same provision, same relationship, same distance. In the same way that colleagues on the other side of the assembly think that I insult them, they insult me. It is my duty as opposition MPs to point out any irregularities carried out by any party, any individual, and in particular any irregularities exercised by the current authority. Unlike you, I have my arguments and indeed, if you think there is a multiple conflict of interest, I don't know why you don't, you don't file a complaint with the competent body. And speaking of conflict of interest, I really don't understand why you didn't invite your government to deliver The Commission for the conflict of interest of those documents requested by that body. [[Intruder: Time.]] That would actually mean execution. The role of representatives is because it is the task of a representative to control the executive power. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12839	We have a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12840	Dear Vice President, again. 238, because the lady insists that she, as former vice president of the Committee of Conflict of Interest here in the club has a lady who has been convicted, doesn't need to report anything, she's already been convicted several times and she doesn't mind, she doesn't mind that lady and we have a moral lesson here. I can imagine how she judged us in these commissions in cases where she had this attitude about HDZ and HDZ members. I'm sure she's already been committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12841	And it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a second warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12842	... As far as the conflict of interest is concerned, he was your Prime Minister as well as a whole series of ministers. [[Specially enabled.]] Martina Dalic was also convicted and repeated in several different cases, both during my term and by the current convocation of the Committees for whom, as far as I know, your parliamentary majority chose him. I see these circumstances do not bother you at all, distinguished colleague. ... Not at all, do you mind? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do All Other Officials Disturb? [[Intruder: Time.]] HDZ having corrupt affairs [[Intruder: Here you go...]] And not just a conflict of interest? [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12843	Please, please. Stipan Shashin, a reminder to you, too, normally Second warning. [[Intruder: Dear Sir...]] Stipan Shashin, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12844	Yeah. Dear Mr. Ivanovic, you mentioned in your presentation of Mr. Lalovac, whom I truly highly appreciate as a financial expert, and today I listened very, very carefully to him as he exhibited, that is, as he spoke about the proposal for these measures, the amendments and the addition of this law. If I am not mistaken, he even said that he congratulated the government on a very brave, courageous step forward, on brave measures, in almost all segments of the bill and not only commended it, but even said that he congratulated the Government on a very brave, courageous step. And I really appreciate it and I see that man really means it when he says it. We who are in HDZ defenders know that the courage and God preserves, and here, I congratulate the Government on such a package of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12845	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12846	Thank you very much, this replica probably won't cause any more public attention, so I'll try a few sentences. This morning, who was at the meeting of the Parliament, saw, the first to present himself here at HS today, was the president of the SDP Club, that was Peja Grbin, who said the SDP Representatives Club would not accept this 5th round of reforms. And after that, Mr. Lalovec came along who spoke very nicely about these reforms, the man who spoke too loudly, clearly and said that it was good for Croatia, that it was good for Croatian citizens, that it was good for Croatian entrepreneurs, and here it will be my answer to what you asked me, Mr. Shaslin, one policy but two completely contrary opinions, unlike HDZ, which has a clear view of how to bring Croatia into the state that all the citizens of the Republic want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12847	Thank you. The next debate is the final debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12848	Thank you, Vice President. Dearly respected ministers with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs, here we have a fifth round of tax reform, which unfortunately we consider will change nothing fundamentally. We believe that we need real and serious reforms of the tax system, not that, every year, income tax changes by a few percent, in order for most citizens to grow only slightly. It is clear that every kuna in our citizens' pockets is welcome, especially in these difficult moments, but with modest moves our economy will certainly not move and the standard of citizens will not rise. What Croatia needs are investments and jobs that will be able to earn decent wages for life. It is therefore necessary to abolish the reinvested profit tax in order to allow for new investment, company liquidity and new jobs. We today have a situation that in 2019 someone who had a profit of 20 thousand kunas must monthly pay about 2,000 kuna regardless of whether they will win again because it is such an assumption that they will do just as well. However, no one guarantees that the profits will exist, but because of the challenges and problems on the market a year can end with losses. It is obvious, but we also see on this example that in Croatia the concept of the tax system is not for the purpose of encouraging the strengthening of the entrepreneurship climate but only as if income was collected into the budget. There is also no investment without a regulated state, without legal certainty, without a stimulating investment climate, without a stable tax system, and that is exactly what is missing from Croatia. Through these tax changes, the government is trying to create the impression that something is working on the well-being of citizens and improving their economic position, but reality is denying it primarily through stunning numbers completed and blocked. Also, any such change in income tax reduces the fiscal capacity of local self-government cities and municipalities that have to fulfil a number of tasks related to the everyday life of citizens at local level. The government and the ministry sometimes propose certain compensatory measures, but all of this is short-term and without long-term strategy and vision as it is, and to see what is actually meant to be achieved by these changes in the tax system. The tax system must be stable and long-term sustainable for public finances, but also for businesses, entrepreneurs, citizens, and cities and municipalities. The abolition of anyone in that chain has led to adverse consequences, which eventually cost the citizens themselves again and should therefore consider the possibility of returning some of the funds that the state collects through value added tax to those units of local self-government to cities and municipalities in whose area these funds are collected. This would send a strong message that it intends to implement fiscal decentralisation as a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of functional decentralisation because cities, municipalities and counties need additional powers as well as means to exercise those powers. Cities and municipalities are motivated to improve the quality of life in their local community, but they must have tools and funding opportunities at their disposal. Tromi and bureaucratic state apparatus should be reduced because over the past 30 years, the state has definitely shown that it is not adequately able to solve a number of citizens' problems but is exactly the opposite, that a state apparatus because of its lack of interest and misunderstanding through complicated, unclear and unimplemented regulations and their implementation only creates problems for entrepreneurs and citizens in their business and everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12849	Thank you. The next final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, Commissioner Bencic and MP Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12850	.../Conversation fee included./... is being heard by the Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, I will use this final, final exposure to underline what the taste of our proposal is, given that we have heard the criticisms and the past days and today in the opening speeches, I think it would be good to now say what is the possible alternative. So when we were working on an alternative proposal we worked on it with the intention of being in the same budgetary frameworks in terms of budgetary loss, it means that it doesn't go too far beyond that, and to show that even within that lack it can make a much fairer redistribution of what is actually achieved by this reform. And our goal was actually to introduce progress in a way that lower income classes and those middle ones actually get more significant increases in terms of net wages, and that those highest grades of stagnating or even the highest and slightly higher pay taxes so that actually these lower income classes could profit more. So what does this proposal mean then, we suggest introducing a progressive system with 4 rates of which the first rate is 15% on the first 4,000 kuna tax base, 20% on the next 4.30% on the further 12 and 40% on the rest, or the remainder that exceeds 20,000. This means that, in fact, not only will people who live on their own, that they will have a more significant salary increase, but we have to say that that part of 15% will fall and a large part of our craftsmen who are taxpayers of income tax. That way, we'll relieve them further. The 5% difference between the rate we propose, from 15% to 20%, which is now proposed by the government is extremely significant, and it's a particularly important way to redistribute it. In addition, except for the rates themselves, I would like to emphasise the concrete consequences of this on certain salaries. If we take the media salary, which is close to 8,000 gross, in your proposal, the government's proposal to increase wages would be, the net salary would be around 96 kuna. The salary increase that would have been achieved by our proposal would have been 216 kuna. So for someone who receives a media salary, so about 5 800 kuna, 200 kuna is a lot, and we think that we should actually go to this tax reform precisely to make it possible for those in the lowest income class to make significantly more available income for consumption. Also, if we look at someone who has an average salary, let's say 12 thousand kuna gross, or about 8 grand. more than average salary, 8 200 nets, so in our proposal, that person would have an increase of around 424 kuna, while in the Government's proposal 224. On the other hand, all of us who have gross salaries above 22,500 kunas would pay our wages stagnated, and those over 27,500 gross wages would be somewhat lower because they would pay a little more taxes, and we believe that such distribution would achieve what is called the principle of the justice of the tax system both vertically and horizontally. For horizontal justice, it is particularly important that we do not have double standards but that they pay equally. This specifically means that there is a need to level the tax burden on work and on other types of income, if they are income from capital or property. For this reason, our second proposal is to introduce synthetic income taxation, which means that income, regardless of its source, is collected and that the tax class is determined according to its level, enters the annual application, so it is no longer final, for example, as income from capital rather than the entry into the annual tax application and on the basis of the amount is paid tax. This would result in much fairer distribution and a much fairer burden between workloads and burdens of income from assets and capital. So what we would get further is to change the structure of our economy, the structure of our economy is so now that it is precisely because of this tax system that it is more worthwhile to deal with renting or to live off capital than to live off work. We want to encourage and send a message that living from working in Croatia can and will be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12851	... The next final debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoje. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12852	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues at the club said a lot about this tax reform, no one was saying, I think these words were exaggerated, I don't know, colleagues of Oreshkovic, that these five rounds of tax reform are five circles of hell, so that's quite flat and heavy. But that Minister Maric and the government were able to do much more and allow people in Croatia to receive more, that is a fact that you cannot escape from. We made it clear and indicated how this could be done, I would eventually ask Minister Maric here a few questions. What about the promise of abolishing real estate taxes, meaning the first real estate, which would help our young families to buy the first real estate, that was a promise, why give up that promise? That's the first question. The second question, where the promise of maternity benefits for the other 6 months is gone, means what would allow our mothers to stay with their families, it is particularly important now in the context of this epidemic of coronaryvirus where they could choose to be home and stay home with their children, we see that many schools on online continue, children must be home, so it would be a good measure for the family and means that there is no epidemic, and in the course of this epidemic. I don't know why you gave it up, you promised it in the election campaign, both of you. And what I would certainly like to repeat here, I am pleased that my colleague Bacic himself, as he said, supported the amendment to the Mosta that will go when in the second reading this is, is to increase the number of years in which we can explore the disproportionateness of property, which is now for the last six years, we lose one year each year. We can go from the draft modern Croatian state, as far as we're concerned, uh, I suggested in 2000 because I think it's a reasonable deadline, we're going to have a hard time investigating disproportionately, I don't know, something that happened 30 years ago, but if it's possible and we support it, but we should certainly increase the range of years in which we could explore the disproportionateness of property, and I expect you to also, to support it. I don't know why you went, who pushed you to go to that shift to change what's been since 2005, to go only for the last six years, that's what we warned you about here, my colleague Kristic and I were then warning you not to cut your rate and you listened to us. You remember that the original proposal was to reduce the rate, we warned, and then you increased the rate, I think 50, as far as 52% is concerned, now you're saying that you're going to increase it to 60, 60% we think it should go to an even bigger increase, means 80% because if someone can't prove their property, if there's a certain disproportionateity, I don't see why the state wouldn't use it and then reroute that money where it's more needed these socially endangered cases, people who have little income, which doesn't mean that they don't have to relieve these with higher incomes. So we're not such populists to claim that we don't need to give our doctors bigger salaries, our IT experts, that story doesn't stand. But there is a way to help those who are not in tax markets, our President Petrov presented here today a proposal for a fixed amount of child support, which would make our families especially those who have more children, and I guess we are interested in rewarding these families somehow have a considerable increase in money. So, here are four concrete proposals here, I haven't attacked you, I haven't attacked you, I've abolished real estate taxes for the first real estate, birth benefits for the other six months, I don't understand the amount of property the increase in the period in which the rate is explored and the rate increase and the fixed amount of child's allowance. I ask you to accept it, and these first two points were your pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12853	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12854	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. We talked a lot about this, and I would only say it at the end of this day as far as income tax and the total discharge that has been going on since 2017 on here. So, when we look at what I already said from 2017 to 2020, total VAT-based discharge, profit tax, income, contributions, real estate tax, excise duties, etc. The total discharge was over 8.2 billion kuna and according to that data we have, and I trust them very much because they are being executed according to JOPPD so-called. the form in which everything is entered when we look at 2017 on 2019, more income tax has been achieved in all municipalities, cities and counties and the City of Zagreb in total over 3 billion and 354 million kuna, since 2017, with final data 2019. This means that the rates have been steadily reduced, the personal deduction has increased and the total income of the local and regional self-government units throughout Croatia has been increasing throughout the period. What does that mean? It means that the measures are good and that the municipalities, cities and counties have made greater revenues either directly, or with that compensation so-called. measures. At the same time that you look at this Lorenzo curve that shows how far it has moved for the county and for the cities, so it shows a reduction in precisely the inequality between the county and the cities, then it proves that it has achieved its intention to reduce these inequalities. Assuming that the calculation offered by the minister in 2021 on income tax and income from income tax will be lower by 2 billion kuna 2.1 are still all cities and municipalities and counties and the City of Zagreb in plus over a billion and 300 million kuna, with their share of income tax increasing, so to 74% of cities, it means to 20% that what some colleagues claim to be income tax revenues will be lower is not true because it is parallel to this and the increase in employment. Therefore, this proves that all of these claims and all of these actions that were made in these five circles were indeed accurate and confirm what the minister himself repeatedly pointed out to contribute to the equal development of counties and cities throughout the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think that this way in this circle we can be sure of what this government is proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12855	And the final debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, I have some final things to underline that it doesn't turn out to say that silence is confirmation, and here some of the more difficult things have been twisted. So, it is the SDP Club's view that, unfortunately, in Croatia, inequality is a universal and economic inequality, especially that economic inequality will be even more present after this reform. And to be clear, we are not against any decommissioning or employers, of course, nor discharging or increasing the income of citizens. On the contrary, but we want to send a clear message that it's not enough and that it's not working in a good and smart way. We have heard of this speaker many arguments as to why so. This is, I don't know what the cycle of tax reform is in office, first in the term of office of this government, but there were before in the term of the last government, and I used two, two pictures to describe them. So one is one day, you take the other from the hollow to the empty or the press from one to the other, which is actually the result more or less the same. And the other one's super-hic reform, all of them according to income and property, so to those of us who have little, to those who have a lot of money. This more if we talk about wage growth, promotion of consumption, etc., the more the majority of Croatia's salaries are agreed in the net amount, rather than in the gross, which would make it easier for employers to press, rather than necessarily increase the income of employers. And there we used one very simple calculation. So, on a salary that is slightly less than the average of 4000 294 kuna and 40 limes according to this proposal, it means from 36 to 30% and from 24 to 20% salary rises 17 kuna, 60 limes, so this is the lowest wage that can grow because up to 3,600 is still in the non-taxable, non-taxable class. If you compare this to several times the pay, the 16 thousand 953 kuna and 60 limes you will see it grow according to this reform proposal for 774 kuna and 40 limes, you will see that it will grow on this reform proposal for 774 kuna and 40 limes. So you see what the problem is, you see what disproportionate is and you see why we have problems with it. Because we think that we should constantly strengthen not those who are at the top, but those who are at the bottom, so those who have little should get more, and those who have more should get less. Of course, any discharge and any reduction in the tax press is more than welcome, the question is just how is it to do, who will benefit the most, and whether in the end we have done this service not only to the budget, not to the citizens, not only to the employers, but to society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-12-0.u12857	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. When the discussion of these two points is over, these points will begin with the presentation of club positions. Good night. SESSION Interrupted at 18:31 p.m.
