ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6671	Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Nikola Gromoje of MPs in HS. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the next decision, before that, just one more colleague of the Grmoi to clarify all the ambiguities that existed. So, this is about the private lawsuit of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojić, it's a practice and it's a proposal from the board or the Mandate-Immunity Commission not to remove your immunity, it's a practice we've been doing so far, and I'd like you to make a statement now that there would be no confusion, because this is a new situation for me, too, which we haven't had so far, so please once again, don't be free from the place just say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6672	Thank you. So, let me explain my point of view. I asked for it and I sent a memo to the Mandate-Immunity Commission and asked for my immunity to be removed. It's the right of counsel, I can give up my right as I gave up compensation for a separate life. So that's what I asked the Mandate-Immunity Commission turned me down. After that, a colleague of Bacic, who told the president of the HDZ Club, said that I was asking for my immunity to be removed, and in the case of this one you're talking about where our former colleague, Ranko Ostojic, sued me, I'm hiding and I don't want my immunity removed. After that, I asked you both to remove my immunity in this case and in this case, otherwise, so that Prime Minister Plenkovic could sue me for the heavy accusations I made about corruption at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I ask all my colleagues to remove my immunity in this case, and after that, I will address the MIP and ask that my parliamentary immunity be completely removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6673	Comrade Grmo, thank you very much. So you know for yourself that immunity is removed from case to case, there is no general removal of immunity, there is no such measure. So, we are now voting on this particular case where you have requested the removal of immunity, so far the practice has been different, but who am I or one of the MPs to go contrary to your will. So, MPs, you have a situation now where I'm going to read you a commission decision that is contrary to the attitude of my colleague Grumoje. I am voting on the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is denied. No. 15K-69/16-8 against MP Nikola Grumoje on private charges by private prosecutor Ranko Ostojić over the criminal part of the slander from the article. 149th century 2. Penalty law. Who's in favour of this decision? So this is the MIP's decision not to take it off, so it's for whoever wants the immunity off. Who's in favour, so I asked a question. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 114 MPs and MPs, 23 for the MIP's decision, 2 were abstentions and 89 were against the MIP's decision. Based on this, the immunity of his colleagues has never been removed. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6674	Your Honor, Mr. President. The parliament has now made a negative decision, so the assembly has rejected the MIP proposal. In order to remove the immunity of MIP, colleagues must submit such a proposal and then the Assembly must adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6675	Okay. Now it's a legal interpretation of this and me having that logic, so we'll see what happens next. This is a unique case so far, we'll be conducting our consultations. Wait a minute, we're not opening a debate right now, we've made this decision. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6676	Mr. President, this case has already happened in HS. I have witnessed this in removing the immunity of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. The president of the assembly immediately gave the vote and the opposite conclusion, the immunity is lifted, so if the parliament wants to, if you put it to the vote and the parliament decides then Do it, we'll vote against, but it doesn't matter. [[/Intruder: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6677	Okay. Comrade Thunder, do you want to do that, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6678	Yes, I'd like my colleagues to vote to remove my immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-0.u6679	Okay. Well, then, I think you're gonna have to give me that proposal anyway, so we'll do it next time, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, so we've rejected the MP's decision to remain immune. However, your immunity continues until the MIP's decision and confirmation of the plenary session, then we'll do it next time, we agree on that, okay.
