ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9746	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm talking about something that happened yesterday, and what happened yesterday in me has caused me to look into the calendar and see if we live in the 16th, 17th or 21st century. It is about the fact that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia expelled scientists from the Scientific Council of the Government, because these scientists insisted on working based on science and scientific facts, not on the political views and beliefs of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Scientists on this weekend, along with 21 other colleagues and colleagues, warned the government of the Republic of Croatia that the response to the coronary crisis was not based on scientifically proven facts and that Croatia is the worst country in the world because of its approach, and only one country has worse results than Croatia in Europe, only one country has more new infected, only one country has a response to the coronary crisis that gives weaker results than in Croatia. And why is that? Because the government of the Republic of Croatia is not guided by science, it does not lead by what science has shown to be effective in the fight against the crown of the crisis, but rather is driven by the impression and the daily political needs of HDZ and its president, Andrej Plenkovic, and that is bad. And it can't help this country getting out of the difficult and health and economic situation it's in. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to count who the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has kicked out of the Scientific Council, Nenada Bana, molecular biologist at the ETH in Zurich, Andrej Ambrirović Ristov, molecular biologist and virologist from the Institute of Molecular Biology at the Ruđer Bosković Institute, Peter Klepac, epidemiologist from London School of Hygiene and Tropic Medicine, Igor Rudan, expert on public health geneticist from the University of Edinburgh and regular member of the British Royal Society and Branko Kolarić, epidemiologist from the Educational Institute of Dr. Andrija Printer. People who have so far tried exclusively with their knowledge and science and scientifically founded facts to help Croatia cope better with the coronary crisis. But they failed, and they failed because in the 21st century someone gave priority to their daily political needs instead of giving priority to the health and health of Croatian citizens and citizens. It's colleagues and colleagues what HDZ is doing today. And without the devil, the Croatian response to the crisis is not the worst. In Germany, for example, Bundestag passed powers to the government by law because he is aware that in Germany the situation is extraordinary. But the government can't make decisions on its own. For each decision, the government must have a pre-founded opinion from the Robert Koch Institute, one of the world's largest scientific centres for combating infectious diseases. In the Croatian headquarters, nothing is needed, the headquarters needs only one politician's moment, Andrej Plenkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially you from HDZ, can say that you didn't throw them out, you can say that you only thanked them for their cooperation, but it's not necks, it's necks. We all know what happened. You scientists decided to shut up because of their decision to give science priority over politics. And I'm not the only one who reminded it of the 17th century, but as a scientist said then, "Purs and Move," so are those you've kicked out of scientific advice. That exorcism won't change the scientific facts. So let me remind us all of the words of a politician spoken a few years ago: “One party cannot be the hostage of one man. ” Well, colleagues and colleagues can't even be the hostage of one politician, even if his name is Andrej Plenkovic Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9747	Let's go, comrade Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9748	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break in order to...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9749	My colleague Glavasevic, you can't ask for a break right now, you can look for a break when the agenda points come, it says clearly in the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry you haven't mastered it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9750	Okay. That wasn't necessary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9809	We're going to the fifth debate, colleague Bojan Glavasevic, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9810	Yesterday was a burden on some anniversary that I think we need to talk about and ask ourselves, do we live in their symbolism today, and have we learned lessons from the past? It's the first anniversary of the death of the government of Gotovina, 20 years ago. Gotovina was a man who was first politically persecuted by the Communist party and accused of nationalism and separatism because of his idealism and dream of free, social and just Croatia, only to be despised by nationalists, extreme right-wing and HDZ leadership because he was not a nationalist. Gotovina's patriotism was inclusive, his vision of Croatia was a vision of a country that is a real house for all her children. In an interview with Swedish television from 1978, Gotovina said this, "I have dreamed of social justice all my life and that is why I was always left-handed. I believed that mankind's problems could only be solved when there was justice and freedom. I have always believed that only through solving these problems can human values be achieved, a free individual, an individual who lives justly such an individual can offer the fullness of what human beings have to offer, all their size and all their human dignity." For me, Vlado Gotovina was and remained a role model in his consistency, in his visionary and perseverance in the face of injustice, and his legacy and memory deserve much better treatment than that which Croatia has given them so far. The second anniversary I want to talk about is the 29th anniversary that the Mercepovians killed Maria, Michael and Alexander Zec, all of it, but everything about this murder is a stain on the face of Croatia because it represents the perversion of justice and justice, the complete opposite of the vision of Croatia that Vlado Gotovac had about me. After 29 years, I think we have made some moves, and I think it should be said out loud, it is also witnessed by symbolic shifts towards the culture of inclusive memory of innocent civilian war victims made this year by Boris Milosevic and Andrej Plenkovic. These shifts are still not great, but the shifts and we need to accept them are, in fact, the only extreme right in Croatia occupied by its glorification of convicted war criminals and caused by hatred remained lonely in its heartless Phariseeism and lack of empathy towards victims. I would like to say this, everyone except you has honored all the civilian victims of the war and those of Serbian nationality and those of Croatian nationality and everyone else, everyone, the only extreme right does not want to see it. Stop looking for enemies where they are not, stop with your hateful rhetoric again and again to step upon the legacy of the government of Gotovina and all those who wish to achieve this vision. You're lonely in your hate. 50 years ago Willy Brandt kneeled before the Monument for the victims of the Uprising in Warsaw ghetto and for this he was convicted, first of all in his Germany where they immediately launched an impeachment which fortunately failed, but I hardly have to say that between the two of them between the government of Gotovina and Willy Brandt I see a certain similarity, I see their lifelong commitment to fighting injustice and fighting hate. Willy Brandt did, so only Willy Brandt could do what he did, something like that was recently done by Veran Matic on Ovcara. I can understand that gestures such as that meet with mistrust, the more they are last year, the decades have passed, but as I said in the case of the shifts made by Plenkovic and Milosevic, these are the shifts and should be accepted, the war is over, we should let it end, the more we win that war.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9899	Here's a colleague of Zekanovic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9900	The Honorable President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I go on the subject, I have to refer a little bit to my colleague, Jeckov, who, even when he writes a speech, doesn't say murder, says murder. Here I would like it then if you already have the right to your native language here to say that then the Hungarians have that here's our Furio Radin speaking Italian so we'll have a simultaneous translation here at the assembly. It is not a problem when you write a speech to at least write in Croatian, you have Google Translates and insert Serbian so you will be expelled from Croatian. And I have to make a little reference here about the Rabbit family, every victim deserves a drink and, of course, the Rabbit family, especially when it comes to a young child. However, here I will refer to your statement that tells us in the SDSS nationality in the murdered children is no difference. I've never heard you say anything about the Cengic family about small Slobodan and Goran for five years and 11 years who were slaughtered, killed in Ervenik near Knin, for example, without talking about hundreds of other children you never mentioned. Here we wait for the anniversary to come bowing in Ervenik and see if it represents you or not. What I wanted to talk to you about today is our national television house HRT. When we start HRT on all sides today we'll see the news almost exclusively about the crown, there's great danger, big epidemics, pandemics, people dying all over the place, and since we have partial closure measures, it would be very nice to have at least on TV a little program that will cheer them up, which will give them a little optimism, a little confidence. But that's for example. Sports. And these days the European Handball Championship for Women and Croatian team has already won two great victories by Hungary and the Netherlands, and that is what the Netherlands is about for the champion we just won. And today we are playing against Serbia and if Croatians and Croats, all Croatian citizens want to watch it they can watch it, you know where? I don't know where I can look, here maybe someone knows if there's a channel in Croatia where you can watch it. HRT will broadcast that match just as it was conveying the opening of the Vukovar water tower, no way. It was transmitted exclusively on social networks, who wanted to watch the transfer of the newly renovated water tower to Vukovar could see it on Facebook, on YouTube, but not on HRT. And now I'm interested, if we give a billion and 391 million kuna a year, which is $37.9 million more than last year, then in the recession year, we have almost 40 million kunas almost more than last year, so we can't find the money to buy the rights, especially in such a difficult time when people need some fun and optimism to transfer the Croatian-Serbian game. Here I would like to cheer for Croatia today, I don't know who my colleague Jeckov will be rooting for, it doesn't matter that much, but the result will actually be able to track through the portal, and we won't be able to track live. And then another absurd, every citizen of our country, or every household, pays a famous RTD fee of 80 kuna, and if he doesn't pay what happens, then his unpaid RV fees go to a lawyer, so he goes to FINA and goes to a public notary and then he pays according to the latest law that we passed somewhere around 600 kunas of fines because he didn't pay 80 kuna. And this country certainly does make sure that HRT is satisfied to have money, and HRT doesn't care that this small, accomplished citizen who is watching his program can look at something he wants. I'm calling this opportunity, I'm taking the opportunity to call HRT management if it's possible to make this possible after a brief procedure tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9901	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Jeckov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9902	The Honorable President of HS. My colleague has retranslated what I want to say. However, I am glad that he understands whether I said murder or murder, I see that he understood what I'm talking about, except that one part of him did not listen well, so I also mentioned to Daniela Roknic, Slobodan and Goran Cengic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9903	My colleagues Jeckov as well as my colleagues, Mlinarić, were not injured by the Rules of Procedure, and I do not want to make any warnings in these topics, they are really difficult, painful, and I ask you to remain completely dignified when we talk about the victims. He will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Rade Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u9976	I thank President HS, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here's just a brief reference to this group of doctors who signed the petition, and actually belongs to one team that takes some measures. And now, yesterday these measures were good, today they sign measures that are not in line with what this same team has brought. Well, obviously, we Croats are such a people that we banalize everything and do not apply any rules to us, even when there is a Law on the public against infectious diseases. Although the whole world is faced with a pandemic of incomparable reasons, we act as if nothing is happening and therefore we pass a law for irresponsible individuals in order to stop the spiral of terrible infections and the increasingly frequent deaths of our family members, our friends, our citizens. Unfortunately, today is such a time that we cannot tap people’s shoulders so that they listen to us, we need to do much more. Thank the government, thank you, Chief of Staff, thank you to the Minister of Health, in a special way to medical personnel who day and night care for people weak and powerless attacked by a virus that threatens the lives of an increasing number of people. These people work in hell, and the path that leads from hell to light is hard and long. We had, we could use our behaviour to help, but according to current figures, we're not and now that all the possibilities and attempts have been exhausted, when certain measures and sanctions have been taken, it's from some translations as a way of filling the budget. And lo and behold, this misinformation and demagogy is passing. And why is it passing? Today there are tools that reach users in seconds. Who's checking it out, whether it's true or not? No one. That's why the media space is polluted and everything the headquarters does falls into the water. Several times repeated untruth becomes true. I don't think there's anyone in this high house who hasn't felt it in his own skin. There are other types of rights and truth fighters and they today, after so many sick and dead of our fellow citizens, do not believe there is a coronary virus. Now, in the whole story of all preventive measures being exhausted, when the norms are prescribed by law, here again is the defectist endangering human freedom, and it is known that there is no democracy without certain restrictions. My unlimited freedom is another person's threat, not freedom. The measures taken to call restrictive measures entering the area of human rights are ridiculous because all EU countries have taken much more stringent measures before. We are talking about countries significantly longer parliamentary democracy and, from our country, countries that were our role models until the '90s. Why should measures taken be feared by any conscious and loyal citizen of this country? These measures are aimed at preserving the health of all citizens, and against the irresponsible and undisciplined people they always have, who attack, who rule out, who are sinless, who are rebellious, defiant, uninformed, cynical and are part of every EU country, but also of every world. Although we have rules that we live by daily traffic, tax or other regulations, and if they are not respected, we have sanctions. If we're not tied up while we're driving, we'll pay the fine, if we haven't paid the phone they'll pay him with interest and no one's asking that question, it's pure, pure pulsism. Although constitutional law experts exclude art. 17, it's already art. The 16th Constitution is not enough to make a decision again to the opposition. That's why... philosophy as real philosophers those who have no legal logic or about medicine who read portals. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole of Europe has much more stringent measures and more sanctions than we in Croatia do is not important to us. We should continue to act irresponsiblely regardless of the requests of ministers and health professionals. Our behavior must be to support people, as I said earlier, who work in hell and those who heal our people in order to see the light of salvation. These measures brought by the government are supported by small ordinary people from the left and right spectrum, which I am convinced by contacting many acquaintances and people from their election base during the weekend. The government went to elections to get the people's vote for state-leading and responsibility for decision-making and will therefore take responsibility for taking the measures, but also for, I'm sure, these as well as the other measures they will take, or will yet be taken. In the end, I ask all citizens and citizens to return their responsible behavior to trust and help get out of the pandemic, and save the lives of those who suffer the most, our old and powerless who attack this virus the most. Once again in the end, thank you to all health care professionals who, by their work, sacrifice and care Every day they're ashamed. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10032	Here you go, colleague Mlinarić, A Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10033	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that today HS will discuss in the first item of the agenda BiH Croats who are among the 3 most vulnerable, most endangered people in BiH, and I am very pleased. And today I will talk from this pay phone about Croats who are in emigration, who are the same heart of Croatia as BiH Croats. In HS, he would like to draw attention to the Croatian emigrantism, which is rarely spoken in this place. I will remind you that it represents a rough estimate of 1/3 of the Croatian People's Corps. First of all, I would like to point out that even in this session, we have no representative representing several million Croats displaced around the world, it is unacceptable. In addition to having representatives from BiH who are not diaspora, it is also necessary to find a way to regularly have representatives of our eviction from all continents. If it is possible to favour national minorities, why is it not possible to favour several million Croats in emigration? Why can't anything change here? During the communist Yugoslavia, Croats in emigration were not only declared hostile emigration, but Yugoslav secret services liquidated more Croatian patriots than all Eastern European communist authorities. I also remind you that Croatian emigration played one of the most important roles in creating an independent Croatian state. This invaluable aid was financial, material, humanitarian, promotional, and political. HS has never given recognition to Croatian emigration by any special document. That has to change. Because of the wrong policy, Croatia initially blocked the inclusion of Croatian emigrants in development processes. I'll remind you of a few examples. The richest American Croats, Anthony Maglica, Steve Bubalo, Ilija Letica, Jure School came to Croatia with business intentions and offers, but none of them were welcome. Jure School of California has created one of the world's leading electronic production companies that employs 45,000 employees in more than 100 plants on all 5 continents with an annual turnover of $10 billion. Such Jure School was not accepted in Croatia, so the drive opened in Hungary. Such examples are many. In recent months, we have been very happy about the 20 billion capital that will lend us what the EU donates. During that time, we despise the capital of perhaps a thousand billion Croatian emigrants in the world. With that capital, we could have banks, factories, entrepreneurship and everything that makes us go into the world. Why isn't that capital coming to Croatia? So we argue that we are making absolutely too little of the connection of Croats in the country and the world, so I have to ask why is that? Does the Croatian government care about economic, political and any other co-operation with Croatian emigrants? What's the strategy about encouraging a return? What are the effects of this strategy? Is there an analysis of why government measures do not result in expected effects? Can we all finally make some significant moves together? Can we make a big turn? Time leaks and the Croatian diaspora is growing more and more disappointed. We left them, betrayed them, played them, and I'm afraid we're going to lose that greatest asset of ours as demographically so financially and professionally forever. We're losing historical life chances. People, let's trade, that's our people, introduce radical changes, open the door to our diaspora. Don't wait for the Homeland Movement to do it, you do it, and we'll back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10116	He will now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10117	Dear Mr. President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Until yesterday, the teacher, gave her children and society 40 years of dedicated work, can't pay her home with her pension. Last year, the head of business at the firm and where they were wondering about every screw where he's at the warehouse, where he's at the firm, now no one's asking about him, forced to listen to you for the rest of your life because you didn't work anymore. A widow who lives in poverty after having devoted her whole life to others. These are the people I most often talk about, the people who call me, who write to me, who I represent here in Parliament, our pensioners, forgotten valuemakers. I repeat, forgotten valuemakers that we inherit and inherit. Yesterday I answered the journalist's questions about how many older than 60, older than 80, which is the average pension, where we have set the poverty line, I already know all these numbers by heart, but again I wonder what ease this house is talking to about pensioners and containers. If there were, why take pictures of them? Why take pictures of them? Why don't you help them? Why look at them? Why don't you ask them how to help them? Why don't you just caricate here? But don't tell me, there are, but don't tell me that 240,000 older than 80. On duty in front of the containers. Don't tell me it's nice and responsible of you to paint such a picture of forgotten value makers in this high home. Don't tell me we won't be old and powerless. Why don't we talk about the values of these people, these creators of ours, the resources, the human resources? Imagine a pharmaceutical industry without older people, they could easily add up their profits, easily add up their profits. Imagine the utility companies and who pays their debts most regularly. There'd be a lot more of them in red if there weren't a pensioner who, in addition to their humble incomes, would settle all obligations. Despite their small incomes, they can save and help their children and grandchildren. They're also real treasures of knowledge from experience. I want, I want and I want to talk about these people's dignity all the time. They deserve all our respect, all ours, all our dignity or all our care for them, they are our creators individually and collectively. These are former merchants, engineers, workers, professors, health workers, ours, our grandparents, ours, our mothers and fathers. Do we have the right to create an ugly picture of them, or is it compulsory, obligation, and sacred duty to organize and help them? I want to change, and as long as I'm in this home, I want to do it, attitudes and activity towards our poor, and I'm going to ask you now, what kind of state we are that exists for 30 years. With a huge administration that can't count citizens whose income isn't enough to live a normal life and live in poverty and ask for help, and it's not just pensioners? And second question, what kind of state are we? After entering the EU, it has not yet been networked in all its statistics, has no idea of the actual income of its citizens and does not learn at all from the experiences of others, does not see others solving this burden, but is looking for, looking for, looking for, forever looking for a path, not looking for a path of solutions but for the path of too smart creators What's never good? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10133	We are now moving to deliver the position of club representatives and independent representatives. The first is a respected colleague, Dragana Jeckov, on behalf of the SASS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10134	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have often heard about different initiatives behind this speaker, simply because we live in a time when we collect money for heaters, for medicines, for food. This is exactly the kind of initiative that comes from Rijeka, and its name is "My Place Under the Sun". It is, in fact, about the campaign of enthusiasts and volunteers who seek to make the lives of children at risk of poverty richer for adult solidarity, for the content suitable for growing up and for the society that cares about them. The place under the sun does not have everyone in this country, so much is certainly our country at a loss and it is important to point out that it is necessary to join the fight against child poverty and social exclusion. The place under the sun had neither children of war victims whose lives were worth just as much as the wrong blood cells had. So 29 years ago, the Zagreb-based family of Zac was left without Alexandra a 12-year-old girl and her parents, Michael and Mary. Yesterday, a group of people marked their murder, which should have been a lesson for Serbs to leave Zagreb, and for Croats to look the other way when they were left without their fellow citizens. The lesson of course was successful, otherwise we would have long had the City of Zagreb's response to the human rights initiative that one street in Trešnjevka neighborhood is now the name of Aleksandra. The lesson has certainly worked because today some children suffer abuses, some because they are poor, some are Serbs, some are Roma, and because of these things we fight with the memory of Aleksandra Zec on Daniela Roknic, Slobodan and Goran Cengic. In the U.S.S.S.S., the nationality of children does not pose an obstacle to the memory of their lost lives, we do not have a problem with any form of hate and discrimination, it does not represent us and the rest of us by conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10135	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10136	In breach of Rules of Procedure 238, I would like to respond to Mrs. Jeckov, she listed here only to Aleksandra Zac of these other names could not even read, 403 Croatian children were killed. Martina Štefancic was killed in Borovo Sela, no one knows her name, and Mrs. Jeckov lived there very close to home, so that she is correct and when she says that 403 Croatian children were killed let her say except Aleksandra Zec and other children die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10137	My colleague Mlinarić, you know that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the subject is very sensitive, I will not give any warnings now, but I ask you that everyone delivers his views and opinions. A colleague of Jack's? You won't. Okay. We are now going to the 8th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10179	My people, today, this morning. The Committee on Justice rejected the proposal, and no one voted to launch an investigative commission from the ruling, of course, an investigative commission on the impact of politics on independent institutions, as if we were going to influence the Janaf case, as if we were going to influence, the code itself is Janaf, so where is Krš-Padjane, where are numerous other criminal acts that have led the Croatian people to believe in no judicial institutions or independent institutions at all. Why didn't you support it? Will you remove the dishes? Even courts don't make any judgments, nobody cares, a few convictions for 10 million kunas who steal a few days of pure potatoes and that's it. So how will you restore trust before all this home that it has the right to discuss it means commission? To the commission to see we will give the influence of politics on independent institutions, and we know that the influence of politics on independent institutions and that the best man line from, in, in, with Shex headed by the investigating judge of her godfather, this colleague Branko Bačić knows very well, he is also their best man, and we can say that the so much influence of politics on independent institutions from the DORH, the judiciary, that what in Croatia feels in the air. And this home, a high home, we Parliamentarians must not allow this destruction that we and this commission that has the right to discuss and draw conclusions, and we will not talk about the destruction of the eye, in the case of Agrokor about the commission you've done. As for how much confusion you are working in the covid crisis, we see that independent experts have no meaning at all, people thanked and went away, there is no point in standing only in, in terms of covid and solving the problem with covid, measures and everything else must have a membership card, HDZ membership card, SSDS or I don't know who they all don't already know. After this, I will once again order “no one’s cry nor yours. ” And in the end, I'm going to say what I thought at first, but I thought HDZ would come out here, president of the club and say we support today's commission to finally reject all insinuations about the impact on the judiciary and the independent bodies. You're not. Why didn't you? That's why the people are irritated, that's why the people are angry, so the people no longer have simple faith in anything and no one else. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, we also have a huge problem with EU funds. In my neighborhood, we have a project of agglomeration in the Cetina region, 302 million kunas are secured to protect our river Cetina. Through the centre of Sinja, an open sewerage, feces and influences the Sinjsko polje, influences the Cetina River. The money is secured, however, by the public procurement of Croatian water, the minister of danger and the environment who often sign some contracts, regardless of the means provided, have led the project to questionability and therefore we are at the bottom of the EU after withdrawing funds from the EU. Also, you push the Lečevica Project, the harmful project aware of Mariščina and other projects, you push it still no matter what in 15 years. You have spent 30 million kuna in the harmful Project Lens. You're still pushing him, you've spent public procurement. You can see from the opening of public procurement in the process that you misjudged this project and you continue to push this harmful project and now that behind every rain Split is clouded water because of the Adriatic, because of its influence on the Adriatic, and still do so in the cross when we triangulate a resource like water. Water is one of the strongest resources with energy potentials, forests, agricultural land and food, water is the key we have so Croatia is the richest and we have sought in the Mosto and demanded in the last session that water enter the Constitution as basic human rights. Today we have a cloudy Adriatic, small rain, Split has no water and surroundings and now instead of protecting the river Cetina to influence sewers and feces that do not affect the Cetina River that will have to power the entire Dalmatia, you are blocking and boycotting with the minister endangering the Čoric project of agglomeration Sinj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u10180	This brings us to the end of our position. This is what we've come to the end of our position, and now we're going to move on to the agenda. First point: - The report on the implementation of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 is submitted by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in accordance with point 6. HS declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, and the government delivered an opinion. Now I'm going to ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman. Minister, you have 20 minutes. After that, the committee's rapporteur, Busic, will probably speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21802	Thank you very much, Mr. President Jandrokovic. Honorable parliamentary MPs, MPs. A declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH was adopted in HS on 14 December 2018. A declaration based on the Republic of Croatia Constitution and relevant laws and strategies confirms concern for the overall political and social position of Croats as a constituent and equal people in BiH. Support for Croatia's territorial integrity and sovereignty of BiH is unquestionable, and it is equally unquestionable that the main prerequisite for the existence of a functional and stable BiH is satisfaction with the overall quality of life of all three equal constituent peoples and other citizens according to constitutional principles agreed by the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement exactly 25 years ago. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that Croats in BiH are facing difficulties in exercising their own rights with the kind of institutional violence that is manifested in preventing their legitimate political representation and other negative social phenomena arising from that fact. Cultural identity, economic issues and all that. Therefore, the institutional assistance of Croatia, which is the subject of this declaration, is very much needed in order to survive Croats in the parts of BiH where they have lived for centuries. Realising that this issue is a first-rate national Croatian interest in achieving Croatia's institutional assistance to BiH Croats in 2019 and we are considering the 2019 report by the Prime Minister, members of the government and other officials and state bodies. Allow me to present, under the obligation of the declaration and its content, the Annual Report of the HS MVEP on the implementation of the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH and in the achievement of the institutional assistance of the Republic of Croatia to political, economic, cultural Croats in BiH. The Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, participated in numerous political and social activities aimed at contributing to BiH's stability because they sought to achieve the equality of three constituent peoples, thus ensuring the full equality of the Croatian people in BiH according to the spirit and the letter of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement. The Prime Minister met with representatives of the Croatian people in BiH to the dignitaries of the Catholic Church in BiH and leaders of key scientific, economic and cultural institutions in BiH. in his contacts with senior EU Member States officials and the European institutions of the North Atlantic Union, the UN and numerous other international organisations, as well as with the European People's Party, the Prime Minister has taken the European transatlantic pathway of BiH. He supported reforms in BiH, meeting accession criteria for the EU and NATO. The Prime Minister also personally attended the signing of a large number of contracts that were given financial support to projects aimed at strengthening the overall social position of Croats in BiH. The importance of BiH for Croatia was doubtless and visible in the programme of the Croatian EU Council Presidency, in which it made clear its commitment to BiH's progress towards candidate status, but on that second year. The MVEP Euro-Atlantic pathway of BiH is one of Croatia's key foreign policy objectives and strategic priorities as highlighted in the declaration as well. The capacity and experience gained by the MVEP in the EU accession process are at their disposal in preparing BiH for the process. The process of this support has further encouraged the European Partnership Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which entered into force in 2018. In all aspects of foreign and diplomatic action, Croatia continued to pursue the affirmation of the principle of equality of the three constituent peoples of BiH, which includes... the electoral law of BiH, because the reform would allow legitimate representation at all levels of government, including in the BiH presidency, because the reform needs to be done in order to respect the BiH Constitution and decisions of the Constitutional Court in BiH, such as BiH. Judgment in Ljubic case. In the UN Security Council, Croatia also warned in the debate on BiH about the necessity of meeting the principles mentioned both as a member of the EU and as a national figure. During the May... debates in the Security Council last year, Croatian representatives were very critical of the consequences of individual international community interventions in BiH, especially those of Croats. In the EU Council for European Security Cooperation of the OSCE through other multilateral forums and through bilateral co-operation with numerous countries of Europe and the world, Croatia systematically warned about all these issues, regularly addressed the members of the Management Board, the Council for Implementation of Measures in BiH, and during the year numerous bilateral meetings between the two neighbouring countries at ministerial level and the level of state secretaries were reached. It would take me minutes and minutes to elaborate on it, but this is just a brief review and a cross-section. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs had several important... projects, knowledge transfer, and technical assistance to BiH institutions, mainly in pre-accession processes, co-operation with the University of Mostar has been established, and a joint co-ordination has been achieved with a scholarship programme for the postgraduate European programme. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH was the state last year that received the highest amount of official development aid, 85.6 million kuna was paid for a total of 106 projects, with the highest investment in education, employment and social policy, environment and climate, democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights, economy, innovation, transport, agriculture and rural development, and health. The trade in BiH last year was 2.2 billion euros, which means an increase of 5.9% compared to the previous year. Croatian exports increased by 11.7% and amounted to EUR 1.5 billion, while Croatian imports increased by EUR 697.8 million. In the total exchange, Croatia achieved a 820 surplus of EUR 823.7 million, and I would like to point out that this fact often remains undetected in the Croatian public, no doubt the Croats in BiH are in pain. It can be clearly concluded that the stay of Croats in BiH, and their good living and economic prospects also make a strong contribution to Croatia's economy. Dear MPs and MPs, the main state body operating in the spirit of the declaration, is the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which launched a public tender on 15 April last year to finance cultural, educational, scientific and health programmes and projects of interest for the Croatian people in BiH. The government's decision of August 1st provided a maximum amount of 25.8 million kuna for the purpose. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the same purpose, 20 million kuna was allocated, so in 3.g. The amount has been increased by 29%, and in the following year I'm going to talk about this year. Here we can talk about several, education, science, health care, social care, culture, other areas covered by the Central State Office. This is what you have in your report, a scholarship program for students, a support programme for Croatian strategic institutions in BiH. It would only be short to go through the ministries because they thus contributed to this, the Croatian Defence Ministry, for example. which singled out all activities related to the implementation of the 2.9 million kuna declaration, and for the purpose of finding the missing persons, the ministry is working closely with the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers in search of missing persons who entered into force 30. ... Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2019, two meetings were held between the ministry's representatives and the BiH Missing Persons Institute on 15 February in Sarajevo and on 18 April in Zagreb, resulting in agreed rules of procedure for the implementation of the Protocol on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Council of Ministers in search of missing persons signed on 30 July of that year. The Ministry of Labour and Pension Care, Family and Social Policy in cooperation with the Ministry of Croatian Defence has regulated pension rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defence of HVO and members of their families by law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The provisions of Chapter 9 of that Law, which regulate pension rights, entered into force on 1 January 2019, and subsequently took a series of measures to effectively address the requirements of members of the HVO and members of their families. The requirements for recognition of the right to disabled family pensions had priority in resolving. I believe that these legislative changes were of paramount importance to facilitate the regulation of the status of members of the HVO, and they were also corrected by one injustice. Namely, a large number of persons were also members of the HV, and participated in the defence of Croatia, but they also participated in crucial relief actions that freed the occupied territory of Croatia and BiH, which finally brought peace to both countries. As part of bilateral co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence has enabled the training of members of the BiH Ministry of Defence in military education programmes at the Croatian Military School "Dr. Franjo Tudjman" and gave its support through the transfer of Croatian experiences in joining NATO and the EU, etc. These activities therefore covered all those objectives of the HS Declaration in promoting European values in Southeast Europe and the Action Plan for NATO membership, and they are being achieved in the framework of regional initiatives. In the academic year of school 2019/'20. 16 Croatian cadets from BiH attended the programme of military leadership and management and military engineering, while 6 Croats from BiH participated in other forms of education. In the training of helicopter pilots as part of cadet projects in the academic year 2019/'20. As many as 34 cadets from the BiH Armed Forces were educated. Even 22 out of the 37 activities of bilateral military co-operation with Southeast European countries that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia spent last year were related to co-operation with BiH. The ministry of the sea, transport and infrastructure, the most important event in the portfolio was advertising the text of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers in the maintenance and reconstruction of road bridges at the state border. The MUP, co-operation took place in the investigation of war crimes committed against Croats in BiH in accordance with point 5 of the declaration. In preparation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship by birth and for members of Croatian people living outside Croatia are significantly liberalised. A very important issue for both countries is migration, particularly those illegal, and the plan has been closely co-operated. The Ministry of Health decided by the government of February 19th. 40 million kuna has been allocated from the state budget to assist the BiH health system, which includes both hospitals and health homes, etc. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports in this portfolio has achieved projects of cross-border cooperation Smartmed within Interreg MED in partnership with the Tourist Board of the Herzegovsko-Neretva Canton, and the programme contributes to the development of tourism and preservation of cultural and natural heritage within the Interreg IPA, where a total of EUR 4.2 million has been allocated to Croatian partners in 6 projects. The Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, it is well stressed that in 2019 it was working on a trilateral programme of cross-border cooperation of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro Interreg IPA under the IPA2 programme and the programme included 12 counties in Croatia, 109 municipalities in BiH,... Brcko, and 10 municipalities in Montenegro. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total value of the EUR 67.2 million programme, out of which EUR 57.2 million is secured from European funds. The Ministry of Culture, which means it exists in the Central State Office, Alculture and through the Ministry, has been co-financed 12 programmes, international events and exchanges totalling 127,950 kuna and in these areas of performing art and library, promotion of cultural heritage and cultural art amateurism. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, where bilateral co-operation was given an additional impulse last year after HGK's open office in the Croatian Embassy in Sarajevo and the General Consulate in Mostar during the previous year. It also provided professional assistance by transferring experience in the preparation of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure in BiH. The Department of Administration and Justice. Croatian judicial institutions have taken on ensuring equal treatment for suspects, suspects of Croatian nationality for war crimes, and this was also a reaction to the increasingly common practice in which the courts of BiH began treating suspects of Croatian nationality according to stricter law or to suspects of Bosniak nationality. The finance ministry and, and also participated in the transfer of colleagues from BiH, the customs administration was during 2019. instructed officials to work on adaptation projects to European legislation and in practice in the field of customs. Ministry of Education and Science. The importance of education and science should not be talked about for the survival of a nation. This gave strong support to projects that provided the highest quality conditions for the education of the Croatian people in BiH, and for these activities, the ministry has resolutely singled out a total of 8 million kunas. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in the end that it is an extraordinary honor in Croatia in this legislative body in HS for the first time to present a report on the implementation of the HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. Although the goals of a stable and functional BiH which successfully achieves its natural and economic social potential, and the survival and prosperity of Croats in BiH for Croatia are unquestionable, strategic national objectives and the report on the implementation of the declaration enables a full systematic review of everything we have done to achieve the principle outlined in the declaration in each of the areas, and raises awareness of where we should do even more and strengthen efforts in time ahead. In our neighbourhood, we want a stable and functional BiH in which three constituent nations and all its citizens live in peace on their own and enjoy all the rights guaranteed by the BiH Constitution. From all the above, I'd say that in the last year we've done a lot of things that I've reported to you today, and this year I'm going to inform you of course next year. The results are much higher and it will be one big contribution and a good comparative. The Prime Minister, members of the government, and other officials and leaders of Croatian institutions joined in their efforts, in their own efforts and each within their own jurisdiction, gave significant political, financial and operational support to numerous educational, scientific and religious institutions important for the preservation of national identity and cultural and religious heritage of the Croatian people in BiH. The issue of facilitating the exercise of the rights of members of the HVO, participants of the Homeland War, as well as the acquisition of Croatian citizenship has also been resolved, and particularly important cooperation on the use of available European funds is also one of the political tools that can be very helpful in improving the socio-economic situation of the Croats in BiH. Dear Parliamentarians, distinguished parliamentary representatives, Mr. President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21803	Thank you Minister, you can stay behind the pay phone since we have 12 replicas, so 12 of us will only have from the assembly, one video link, from the other halls three more means 13, 16 replicas. Let's go, comrade Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21804	Thank you very much. The declaration is in principle. What about the constitutive people, the Croatian people in BiH except for everything he has principles? We have made amendments on the declaration, mainly according to legal assistance to members of the HVO, the HV component. Do you know the Minister to the Minister of Spralje after 13. for the Croats in The Hague, including the general, Pok. Praljak, there are still 6 orcs left upstairs that no one has visited them, no one has given them legal aid to Minister Sprlje no one has asked them anything. Why don't they give me, I have the right to ask, I've been at war in BiH for a year with members of the HVO. Why have we washed the Pilate hands of these people and why not give the Croats a correspondence and electronic vote in BiH? Why? Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21805	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21806	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Unlike the political activation of some others who view this relationship with BiH, this Croatian government is working actively, working actively, and I can be proud of everything we have done and what we are doing. The situation is not simple, you need to go back 25 years, you were a participant of the Homeland War and I am also Croatian defenders and I know what the situation was, first of all the recognition of the Republic of Croatia was not enough, it was necessary to affirm in that one area of unwanted states, affirm all institutional political values and our independence. What we are doing and what you will hear next year will certainly be a lot of good surprises on that trip, this is a report from last year, and in everything else you said about it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21807	You've been injuring my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21808	The violation of Rules of Procedure of the 238th Ministers you have injured people in the BiH area of the Croats who have been forgotten, who are only making a declaration in the pre-election time. Give concrete measures, electronic and correspondence voting. And as for the Homeland War, I repeat, you're all from these areas of origin, I've been in the Homeland War for a year with these people and these people are being persecuted as dogs from all the services of secret and foreign agents... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21809	Thank you. My colleague Bulj please, therefore you receive no warning, nor have you mentioned an article that has been injured or shown in any way which would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure but which you have expressed your position, a replica by asking you not to do so, a reminder. Here you go, colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21810	Dear Minister, here are two very specific questions. The first is what you have done under point 5 of the declaration, which says "HS expects to shed light on all the unsolved cases of the killings of Croats in BiH from returnees to top officials," the Leutar case said, and at the end of the sentence "it encourages strengthening the co-operation of the RS and BiH institutions". You didn't do anything because there's nothing in the report that was done at point 5, so I'm asking why nothing was done about it. Under point 6 mentions the "declaration report to the Peace Implementation Council" there you were completely inactive. My question, is 2019. The MVEP and the Prime Minister sent a letter or organised a session of relevant EU and international institutions, or were they silently and shyly whispering about what we cannot know, we can only judge on the basis of what is in the report? Here are two very specific questions, so please answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21811	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21812	It is this very declaration that we have actually brought, it is not imposed on us, but on the proposal of the HDZ on 14.8.2018, and many of the other parties opposed, it was precisely an instrument for us to articulate here, in fact, it was not only our duty but our duty, our constitutional duty. Since 2016, what was done has not been done in all the last 25 years. Therefore, beware politics is the art of possible, what we have done is immeasurable, and you will see about it next year. I'm talking about the year 2019 that was very active, this is the first report we file. I respect your question and interest, and thank you very much for that, and I am sure that in the next period together, because it is in all of us's best interests to work on our best relationship so that we can actually ensure what is most important, ensure the equality of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21813	Thank you. We're going to the third line now, colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21814	Dear Minister. You spoke of first-class interest, institutional violence against Croats, the cultural identity and economic crisis of the Croatian people, the endangered survival. The question is very simple, do you think that the Dayton Agreement applies properly and that you have specifically made the Dayton Agreement applicable if you do not think it applies the way it is signed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21815	Thank you very much for that question. You are right, Croatia is a co-signator of the Dayton-Paris Agreement, it is a general peace agreement that can only be changed if those members who signed it have agreed on an international... conference. We are unfortunately the facts are so wandering the same government before only 2000 when we had a special relationship with BiH, which is the government from 2000. On January 3rd, she canceled, and then there was actually a situation of one retreat. So, all these actually insecure policies have contributed to the fact that the relationship with BiH has not been consistent, it has not been credible, but this very government wants to fix this one situation and wants to contribute to a better understanding of our active membership in the EU and NATO that enables us to have stronger and stronger articulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21816	Thank you very much. I see a colleague named Zekanovic is on the phone, I assume you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21817	That's right. Dear President HS. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for 10 minutes to consult further on the report. So, the question I asked you, the respected ministers, was very clear, which is why the Croatian government, you, in particular, as foreign minister, has been done on the subject of the Dayton Agreement? You said nicely that Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement, not only Croatia, but also Croatia and as a signator can primarily ask for this agreement to be implemented, and it is not implemented, you did not make that clear, and on the other hand you can ask for a revision if something does not match the Croatian people, and we agree in HS and you as Government, and something does not answer. Unfortunately, apart from these numerous measures that extend from some educational to humanitarian ones, I have not seen a single important, important political measure to help the Croats in BiH in the right way, and all that you have said, and the truth is that we have institutional violence, that we are at risk of survival, that we have a cultural, identity and economic crisis of the Croatian people is standing, but they will not be resolved because by training cadets at the Croatian Military School from BiH, which we welcome, which is, by humanitarian action or some kind of, I don't know, humanitarian aid for a hospital in Mostar will not solve this key problem. Dear Ministers, I want to send you a clear message in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Croatia as a signator of the Dayton Agreement must be placed as an important or most important factor in the creation of policies that have a significant impact on Croats in BiH and not watch the water pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21818	We'll approve Stanko, of course. Is anyone else picking up for a break? No, then we move on at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes. [[It's 10.42 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.52 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, now it's time for a respected colleague named Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21820	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Croatia as a member of the EU and NATO alliance has an interest, responsibility and commitment to ensure regional security and stability. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 10. Care and care for the protection of Croatian peoples in other countries, which the government has certainly shown and proved. But the recently held local elections in BiH are at the very least an electoral fraud and manipulation that took place in several municipalities in BiH with the Croatian population. I will give an example of a municipality, it is the municipality of Teslic where the Croats went this time with a unique list after 16 years. Expecting your representative in the council. But unfortunately, the count of the SIP ballots has been interrupted, for which no further explanation has been given, but the co-ordinators who have held elections in the area, or the person in charge of the implementation, have evidence that over 600 ballots have arrived from EU countries, but also elsewhere, that everything is not counted and I think that respect for the voter's will are the basics of democracy that [[Intruder: Thank you]] must respect BiH. [[/Intruder: Thank you, fellow Members of Maximchuk.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21821	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21822	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. Yes, we are aware of that, we follow, of course they will both Uskoplje and Gornji Vakuf it is an example of a city similar to Mostar where fusion occurred after the intervention of the High Representative after 2000. Who was first in Expensiveness, then the Upper Wacouf, surely it is not good. Croatia cannot be directly involved, but it needs to be signalled to the international community. This is exactly what Croatia and I in the EU Foreign Affairs Councils always point out, the importance of amending the electoral law, laws and electoral reforms that will primarily guarantee equality and constitutionality, means those original principles, letters of the Dayton Agreement, the spirit through members of the presidency, so that I believe that the elections in Mostar will be held in accordance with these rules. And then later we'll see [[Intruder: Thank you]] What's it gonna be? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21823	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21824	Croatian Ambassador to BiH Ivan Sabolic was a close associate of Ivo Sanader and his right-hand man, Bica Matkovic. The Croatian consul in Tuzla Ivan Bandic, according to his official résumé, was a Libyan bully at the end of the 1980s. The question is, what is the criterion for becoming a Croatian diplomat? And from the attached, we see that it's corruption and belonging to UDBA. And as we know in Croatia there are valuable, highly educated people with international references and knowledge of foreign languages. Mr. Minister, if they don't belong to a corrupt octopus, and they don't have a résumé career or a family refugee pedicure, can they even report for a job at the Foreign Ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21825	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21826	Thank you very much, ma'am. Representatives. Croatian ambassadors are professionals representing Croatia, conducting state policy, they are the country's largest political representatives. As far as you're concerned, you listed the names, Mr. Sabolic, who is a diplomat who joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has his own head, who is responsible for his own actions, who is a respected calm patriot, patriot and is doing a great job. The others, of course, speak of others, and everyone is responsible for their own actions, so as far as the presentation of diplomats is sure to be the most visible and visible because being a Croatian diplomat and generally being a diplomat is 24 hours of dedicated work for the country, for the country, in... national interest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are not indifferent if someone breaks it like that and those persons we will sanction in a certain way by the basis of our Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21827	Thank you. So we have a request for a break, just a second, because before that, a colleague of the Grmoys called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21828	I have to respond to these claims. Your Honor, you have injured an officer. In 238, you talk about the reputation of Croatian diplomacy, and in front of your eyes, there is fraud and persecution of the man who exposed these hoaxes in our embassies. Today, he was tried in a administrative court and, thank God, the verdict of the senior court was annulled. Persecute a man as a beast, a man whom, who reported corruption, so much Croatian diplomacy. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grumoja]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21829	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica or an act of some kind, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Here are colleagues Vidovic Kristo, pause, request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21830	On behalf of the Association of State Movement Representatives, I am looking for a 10 minute break for the simple reason that the Croatian public has not been informed in a timely or adequate manner about this point, so that many interested parties could not participate in the preparation of it. For example. The association "Nazaret" exiled Croats from the Banja Luka region warns that not even after 25 years. Since the signing of Dayton, Annex 7, Croats are not allowed to return to Republika Srpska, have neither legal nor political security, have no adequate Croatian representative. BiH's neglect of HDZ is also evident from this example. Serbian soldiers are in the summer of '92. in one day killed 67 Croatian civilians in Brishevo, in one day. The leading HDZ in BiH, Dragan Covic, for whom not only the corruption policy but also the connection to the former state structures in BiH has not been eligible for the marking of this terrible crime. Until Croatia's leading policy clears corruption and communist heritage, there is neither national policy nor the rule of law in either Croatia nor BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21831	Now I'm gonna reach out to the Art. 293.b., so we're not going to take a break, but we're going to leave right away, given that there was a recent break requested by a colleague, Zekanovic, so let's move on with the replicas, dear colleague Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21832	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you spoke of the strong investments and assistance Croatia provides to the Croats in BiH, and this is our constitutional and human obligation and without that, their position would be much more difficult. The rights of Croats are being violated in BiH, and we have warned as Croatian MEPs where we have received support from other Member States and through a series of resolutions, except for their difficult position, that it is necessary to establish the constitutionality and equality of three constituent peoples. BiH must become a functional state because the current institutional3 legal framework, as you yourself mentioned, is not satisfactory and not sustainable. That's why I'm curious, is the Dayton upgrade being discussed because we know that political actors in BiH can talk about it, but I believe that you as foreign minister have some information?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21833	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21834	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Representative. Exactly, so our diplomatic activities are just pointing to this aberration of the Dayton Agreement, above all so-called. Amendments or crawling reforms start with Beri, who served as head of the OSCE mission in BiH in 2001, and then on the basis of the Bosnian powers used by senior representatives. So the Dayton Agreement has been changed to unrecognizable and we warn of our councils, whether it is NATO, whether it is the EU. Now that we are members of these important organizations, much more is said to be our voice, and we bear witness to that. And I can tell you that the Dayton Agreement, which is certainly not ideal, has not stopped the war, but it is necessary to upgrade it to ensure the equality and consistency of three peoples and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21835	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21836	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Radman. So if some government is really working on the situation of Croats in BiH it's this government and I congratulate you on that. You are also working on a European path, the issue of enlargement in focus was put during the Croatian presidency, and there are also significant funds at stake. Croatia-BiH-Montenegro's cross-border co-operation of 67m euros was agreed on by 36m in the last call, and there will be even more funding in the future. And it was my pleasure that my colleague Busic and I, together with representatives of your ministry and representatives of the regional ministry, were staying in Banja Luka recently, but I hope that there will be a visit to both Sarajevo and Mostar because we also met with Bishop Komarica and the project "Marija Star" which is important for the survival of Croats in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21837	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21838	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavic, a former minister who we have actively cooperated with, but that is exactly the same in a way that he would indirectly give the answer to perhaps Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, of course none of us are satisfied with this look of BiH that has experienced such a tragedy and is actually divided. Of course, the basic task is also the Dayton Agreement provides for the return of Croats, or all those who are exiled to their hearths. And I would just like to highlight the role of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing who in the last year delivered construction material for the reconstruction and construction of 43 family houses and carried out preparatory operations for the delivery of construction materials for the renovation and construction of 50 family houses this year. The central state office is also providing assistance to the Croatian government for the return of Croats to BiH for 35 projects worth 3 million kuna, thus working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21839	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21840	Thank you, Mr. President HS. The Honorable Ministers. You said that Croats have their own problems in BiH and in culture and education and institutional problems, especially when it comes to electoral law. And I am interested that the government is working so that Croatians can choose their representative as Serbs or Bosniaks can because if we know how many Croats have given pain in the war for BiH and now they are in a position to have a representative whom they did not choose, or who he represents, and in fact he is there. Why don't we finally settle this and the Croats have Croats who will really represent our people in BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21841	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21842	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course, Croatia cannot interfere directly with another country, but in any case we listen to what is happening and we cannot stay aside when the vital interest of the Croatian people in BiH is therefore at stake. Therefore, we use the mechanisms of all those councils or the EU or NATO councils to just point to this one asymmetricity and that one anomaly that currently exists, we stress in the sense that we welcome the two agreements signed between the Croatian and Bosniak leaders, primarily local elections, the Mostar elections and the second amendment of the electoral law. If we listen to the Croats in BiH as they say, if they are unhappy we pass on this discontent is the role of Croatia as signatories to the Dayton Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21843	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21844	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It always saddens me when people come down to statistics, especially our fellow citizens, our countrymen in BiH. You and I probably agree as most people here in HS that there are two things that are eclad, which is the status of Croats in BiH is not what it should be. And the other thing is, the Republic of Croatia does not have to, not that it has to, but has a legal obligation to worry about it because it is a co-signator of the Dayton Agreement. Two questions, you can answer first with yes and no, with a second number. So, first question, are you satisfied with what Croatia does when it comes to the Croatian people in BiH? And second reading, 25 years after Dayton each process has its own plan, when do you expect the status of Croats in BiH to improve, 4 years, 5 years, 10 years by sending a concrete message to that people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21845	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21846	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On the first question, given that I was born in BiH, that I was also older, which means that from the beginning after I returned from Sweden in '91. he was an active participant in the Homeland War, and the Conference also took part in Geneva by the President Dr. Franjo Tudjman and representatives of the Croatian people and others in '93 I'm absolutely interested and I've been following meaning from the very beginning actually all of our activities. I'm very pleased with our activities. I can tell you that, and that will be in the report next year as long as I was in BiH this time, as much as we actively advocate, mainly in funds in cross-border cooperation to strengthen the actual economic component, the dimension to remain Croats in BiH. And this second question, we're absolutely in favour of international forums, our voice is being heard, and I think that time, I can't tell you today, but it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21847	Thank you. Comrade Ackhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21848	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. He would apostrophe one topic even though fellow Shime and counterpart Skoro were already on track, which is precisely a change in the electoral system and the BiH Constitution. We all know that the government of the Republic of Croatia, with Tudjman's government, has probably done the most for the Croats in Bosnia so far, and that the problem of the electoral system is also recognised internationally. I would just say that what we can say is solutions to the problem and that if the government continued to pursue the problem that all together today, regardless of which club we come out of this debate with this one, with this one problem that we support, which we support the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally resolve, and with that solution, we believe that other problems would be solved because the Croats would finally get an equal position when we talk about an executive and everything that has not been solved in the system and the Constitution of the Republic, and the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21849	Here you go, thank you, here's your answer. Here you go. If there's no eye, we can move on. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21850	Dear Minister, you were asked two questions by our deputies, and they were both focused on why in your ministry you were persecuting the man who pointed you to corruption? On the other hand, our ambassador currently in Belgium, who had previously served in the United States, proved through the state audit that he had damaged the Croatian budget for several million kunas. How come you have such two different criteria for someone who points you to corruption and someone who carries out corruption? And second question, please tell me one man who was a member of AT Lucko, means the elite unit that you've put in the insurance of our embassies around the world in any embassy?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21851	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21852	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative. Although there's no question in the declaration, but I'll tell you on the first question. There is no corruption in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, no corruption. I look you in the eye and tell you no corruption. All this stuff you've been telling me is politicized. The second question... I wouldn't agree with that. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I here is, nor is it the custom to bid with names, but I can tell you at least 10, at least 10 people we've set up, which I personally promoted, and we can later, here I can tell you both openly and if you really want to have and I can tell you that there are very, very many of them since the first day. So, Croatian, active Croatian defenders who work in the insurance system of our diplomatic missions and consular offices in the world. Mr. Skoro remembers that I am from the first, from the first day of the original Croatian diplomat [[Intruder: Thank you]] I've been humane and I know everything. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grlic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21853	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21854	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238 Ministers, do not deceive the Croatian public. I ask you in writing to inform us of one, only one member of AT Lučko who is in the insurance of our embassies, watch only one. If you know him now, tell him, then you don't need him in writing. If you can't say one name now, send it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21855	Comrade Vrkljan, you know very well that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that you must receive a warning. But please, I can see that this has now become common again, for a time we have reduced it to constantly using the Rules of Procedure's replication injuries. It's a conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning, but it's not, it's not fair, it's just... Please don't throw it out of the bench, the debate is civilized, correct, and these are the rules of the game, we can't make up new rules. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on, Comrade Bencic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21856	Well, thank you. I would ask you to give us information given that you are Minister of Foreign Affairs and the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in extradition procedures to tell us how many fugitives in BiH currently have Croatian justice for whom extradition is sought and how many of them have been made, and how much of them have been refused, so of course we are talking about the abuse of the Institute of Double Citizenship and what exactly is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing in the future to improve the extradition treaty with BiH in order to avoid these situations, which we are currently here with Mr. Mamic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21857	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21858	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. Here is also the report, and it is also seen that there is active cooperation between the Croatian Ministry of Defence in synergy with the MUP and that there are commissions that are also engaged and meeting, which is what I stated in my presentation, but you can see it both in, and wider and more extensively in the report. So there is, there is a meaning of this information that you can also get at the Justice Department which is also responsible at the end for carrying out these extraditions, but here happens always after 25 g. There is no war crimes obsolescence, so here we also have a situation that has been initiated in BiH according to the prosecution for, a procedure for a certain person who is in the executive authority to commit crimes in the region of Bugojna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21859	Thank you. Now we should hear from colleague Kujundzic, I don't know if he's on the phone. Do I hear from my colleague Kujundzic? No, please try to connect your colleague Kujundzic, so we will continue, so let's go with the replicas of colleagues who were outside the assembly when this one, when they signed up for the replica, and then we will try a colleague of Kujundzic after that. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21860	So, I am amazed here by the statements made by Minister Grlic Radman, but I do not want to privatise this topic, we will also deal with corruption in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, it is important that the Croats in BiH are too important to discuss this now. I would therefore ask you to answer why you did not answer my colleague's specific questions about points 5 and 6 of the declaration, what was done on these issues? So I'm asking you to answer that. And my question is also very specific, don't tell me about the care of the Croats in BiH, we see where that concern of yours has led them. Do you think the federalisation offered as one of the possible solutions by the third entity is a solution to the position of Croats in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21861	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21862	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I'll start with your last question. These are models that must be agreed on, so within BiH, and Croatia as a signatory will participate in each constructive model. But what is certain, if other countries do so, so in one way, there are certain countries that offer a certain civic concept that is artificial, which actually does not respect the multiethnicity of BiH, sure that Croatia will represent exactly the originality of the Dayton Pension, Paris, peace agreement that has established the meaning of 3 peoples because they are also signatories of this Dayton Paris Agreement that is defined, so in the spirit of the law, the three-member presidency and the letter of the law means the electoral law that guarantees the participation of all 3 peoples at all levels of the executive authority. There's no time for me to be able to answer Mr. Deputy now, only in some other situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21863	Comrade Rasdic reporting for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21864	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most 10 minutes in order to agree on how to continue to conduct this debate and our speech on behalf of the club and the individual speeches as we do not get answers to specific questions about the declaration. So I asked a very clear question, a declaration brought to HS obliges the Croatian government and your ministry and other institutions to work, item 5, on investigations of the killings of Croats in BiH unresolved from senior officials, referring to Jozo Leutar as returnee and point 6 where I asked very specifically whether a letter or a meeting of the relevant EU and international institutions had been sent to the subject of "The Inequality and Votings of the Croats in BiH". I didn't get any answers, so you're here to answer. If nothing's done, and there's nothing in the declaration about it, then say nothing's done. But what's in the declaration? The declaration looks like a report from the Croatian office outside Croatia or a humanitarian aid report from the government of the Republic of Croatia and BiH with some bizarreness. So here's one example, one example. How to explain that the report on the implementation of the declaration concerning the most important foreign policy priority of the Republic of Croatia concludes information that the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance sent it in 2019. a few employees as short-term experts on individual projects implemented in BiH in the missions of the European Technical Assistance Instrument and the exchange of information, taiex. This deals with the tariff numbers of goods or the introduction of new forms of fitness sanitary control. What does this have to do with the fact that the constitutional legal position of Croats in BiH deteriorates year after year? Then it was due to call this declaration of the Bosnian Herzegovic Authority's position. So we have this list of humanitarian aid, completely irrelevant things that have nothing to do with the declaration, and we have nothing to do with it in 2019 on key issues. Please grant a recess to consult [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21865	Thank you very much. I'll do this one anyway. 293.b., so we're not leaving the hall again, we're going to continue. A relationship with counterpart Kujundzic is unfortunately a weak Internet connection, I saw him on the screen, but he's lost again, so we'll move on, pal Troscott, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21866	Good afternoon. What you have specifically done for the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and northwestern Bosnia regarding Dayton, Annex 7, and what you have done for those exiled hearts who today are being held back in those areas, especially about the illegal kidnapping of the property of our Croats from those areas. Here, we at MOST will be very specific, and the consul of Mr. Chicken, Mrs. Kate's house. Josipovic, so you can check it out. What about the dignity of the victims in that area because we haven't seen the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia ever go, for example, to Brishevo near Prijedor, but to honor innocently murdered victims? If it wasn't for the archbishop Komarica as a man of great heart, the Croatian people from that area would have long become a summer's or a memoir, and that is exclusively Mr. Komarica, not the political activation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21867	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21868	Thank you very much, gentlemen. As far as the murder investigation is concerned, I said that there are institutions working on it, there is a meeting that was between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers, which are topics that connect us, and we want to investigate it, so we also expect next year to have this one happen again, we are hosts, but because of the pandemic we couldn't organise this planned conference this year. Did we write, time is running out, we are, that we write all the time. As for Posavina Bosnia, we were always in Posavina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Orasje, Odzak, and I read to you here exactly this central state housing office which has been very actively engaged in rebuilding houses and where we see a visible shift, or where our people Croats are returning. As far as the bishop of the exalted Komarica, who, if not this government has worked very well with them, Mr. Pavić has now told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21869	Thank you. I see my colleague Kujundzic is with us now. Can you hear us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21870	I did. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21871	Then you can have a replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21872	I thank President HS Mr. Jandrokovic. Dear Minister. The villains would say how long and thorough the report's submission was, in fact, the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to the Croats in BiH. I would ask you two questions, your answer will not be judged by me, but by my neighbours from Posusje, Gruda, Brinovci and the rest of the proud Western Herzegovina. And to me who sees... It seems to me that you live in a parallel universe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll remind you in 1991. Bosnia Croats were about 755,000, 2013 were somewhere at 420,000, we will see how much the next list will bring. Art. Ten. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clearly defined as guaranteeing, according to parts of the Croatian people in other countries, special care and protection by, so other than those 10m fences you have set from Ljubusko to Širokog, in which the active content of that article of the Constitution is visible. And another question. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21873	Your time is up for five seconds, thank you very much. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can tell you that I didn't quite understand this question, but I feel like I'm living in a parallel world that I wouldn't say. I live as an ordinary man, and I have one function that binds me to an even greater empathy and greater pawnage because I don't need anything in my life but precisely honor and dignity to defend Croatian interests and especially given the fact that I was born in BiH, so I have a special sense of duty and obligation, and all of my parents and wives, etc. from BiH so I can afford the exclusiveity that I may have in relation to I don't know, you're probably by the name of Imogene but that I have a special relationship with BiH. Of course the number of Croats was '91. In the year 771,000 is not so today, and as if that also doesn't hurt us, but let's see that the Croats return to their homes and we are doing it just to ensure that we have as much quality life down there as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21875	Thank you very much. And we're going to the last replica of fellow Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21876	Your Honor. Witnessing that since 2004, the drama of six BiH Croats in front of the Hague court has been completed here is the third anniversary of a terrible death ahead of our General Slobodan Praljko's Croatian and world public. In 2017, the Croatian government committed itself immediately after this terrible tragedy and evil that took place in front of the Hague tribunal where Croats were charged with a joint criminal enterprise to take all the measures it failed to take from 2004 to a condemning second degree to put the verdict out of force. So now I ask you, we are witnessing that despite Mr. Bosnjakovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic's public statement, what happened in the meantime, what would you like to know?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21877	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21878	Thank you very much. I guess I understand how we comment on that verdict or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21879	What has been done since the announced audits, complaints since 2017.?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21880	Well, that's certainly what lawyers do, lawyers, but review requires safe and long-term treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21881	Thank you very much. That would end the replicas. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear President of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21882	... held on 7 December 2020 The Croatian Committee outside the Republic held a discussion on the Report on the implementation of the Croatian People's Position Declaration in BiH for 2019. which is in accordance with point 6 of point 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the basis of Art. 89. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee discussed that report as a parent body. The report's representative also pointed out the importance of equality between three constituent peoples and their legitimate and proportionate representation and BiH's support on its European and Atlantic path. She also stressed and praised the role of the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent national authorities mentioned in the report, which, through its work and the implementation of many projects, continuously emphasises the importance of the Croatian people in BiH and ensure the achievement of the objectives of the declaration itself. She particularly pointed out the work of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that implements programmes, funding of educational, cultural, scientific and other programmes as well as projects of special interest for the Croatian people in BiH. The ministry's representative also stressed the importance of opening the HGK Office at the Croatian Embassy in BiH and the Mostar Office to help economic operators strengthen the local economy and create new business opportunities and jobs in both countries. Finally, the ministry's representative reported on the new activities to be covered by the 2020 report. A representative of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia informed about the support programmes conducted by the office for raising the quality of life of all Croats as well as the areas in BiH. He stressed that the priority in obtaining financial support was given to programmes and projects implemented in partnership with the local community in BiH, while making sure that the support was geographically distributed throughout BiH's territory where Croats live. In the discussion, committee members expressed hope that the 2020 report would be held. to arrive on time and have expressed their dissatisfaction with the 2019 report. came in late. Following the discussion of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, he decided to propose to most of the votes HS the next conclusion, the report on the implementation of the HS declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH for 2019 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21883	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will speak for the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21884	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. First, I would warn of a business illogicality, so let the Rules of Procedure arrange how many rapporteurs are entitled to speak in front of the board because unlimited time is unlimited. I remember that a few days ago here behind this pay phone colleague Kristo was rushed by the chairman several times, and here on the other hand when Mrs. Busic speaks then no one warns her that she should only actually say briefly that she was accepted or not accepted, so she used what she shouldn't have used her colleague Kristo. Before I start talking about the subject, here I would just briefly invite tonight all those who love handball, love the Croatian team to follow it on the Serbian RadioTelevision programme, on RTS, so here are the Serbs who carry it, the HRT does not carry it, but here is God's thanks for the Serbs to pass it on, so here I invite all the viewers, all those who are following the Croatian team, to take a look at it on RTS tonight. We're talking about the Croats in BiH, I'm going to comment again on what you said and you've been talking about it for about 18 minutes and actually it's all about humanitarian aid, on education, on protocols, Andrej Plenkovic was there on the... I will try to return, Andrej Plenkovic mentioned the importance of the survival of Croats in BiH at the European People's Party congress, very important. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So then Andrej Plenkovic, in a meeting with who again pointed out the importance of the survival of Croats in BiH, then the Croatian government gave six of those yoga mattresses or Hespo not important for the Mostar Hospital, great, and then 30 cadets from BiH of our Croats came to the Military School in Croatia, excellent. Is that what the Croatian state deals with exclusively? We are talking about a first-class political problem here, we are talking about non-compliance with the Dayton Agreement, an international agreement signed by the Croatian state among others. The late President Tudjman has signed the Dayton Agreement, Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement, and we shoot that the agreement is not being respected. So can the Croatian state, the Croatian government, make a concrete decisive move and say ok we as signatories are looking for its implementation or we are coming out of it, e.g.? Like what? Try the Americans who are also, Dayton you know where Dayton is, ask the Americans to and they'll be familiar with the disrespect of the Dayton Agreement, but I'm afraid none of it. Serbs in BiH have Serbia, have Russia, Bosniak Muslims have Turkey, and Croats in BiH have who? Croatia, which will talk once a year about the declaration report and there is concern for the Croats in BiH. So, with this report, care stops because every day the Croats are getting smaller and smaller, the Croats are elected by the Bosnian Muslims, the Croats are quoting you "in the cultural identity and economic crisis. The Croats are being institutionalized, the Croats are at risk of survival," these are your words, and our activities will be reduced to a single report in a year. Unfortunately, many in Croatia get their hair on their heads when it comes to BiH, many Croats, not Croatian sovereigns. Well, that's another country, so let's leave her alone. And I'll tell the hair-lifting team here to remember May 7, 1991. when in one small place in the Herzegovina Post, the naked Croatian people stopped the tanks that went where? According to Croatia, specifically towards Split. And in that Split the day before, those great demonstrations took place because of the occupation or the surrounding surrounding the village of Kijevo. Where would these tanks end today we can guess if there were no Herzegovian Franciscans and the naked Croatian people? Let's remember '92. and on April 10th, when the large Serb aggression headed towards Croatia was stopped again. Where? Well, on Kupres, in the Lithuanian field, actually. Today, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Croats living in Croatia who are born in BiH, who are building this country, who are filling up the state budget and can imagine Croatia at the moment when BiH ceases to be a reservoir, a demographic tank for our country, and that will soon happen. How many Croats are in BiH today we don't know. I'll just mention it's '91. The number was up to 848,000, some said 760,000 Croats, and today that figure is overflated by half a million, likely, is real about 300, 300 and some thousand. The Croats are disappearing. Because what is not known to the Croatian public by Croatia's entry into the EU and Croats into BiH has also entered the EU and every Croat from BiH, as well as the Croat from Sibenik or Zagreb can go to Germany, the one from Širok Brijeg, Mostar, Sarajevo or Banja Luka. 25 years old. It's been over since the Dayton Agreement. Here's the anniversary. And we have appointed the genocide that happened there, the aggressors were rewarded, Republika Srpska was rewarded for what she did. And the Croats lost their seats, they lost Bosnia's Posavina, and even in that exchange of territories for Grahovo, Glamoch and Drvar, and that's where we lost it. Today these spaces are also demographically lost to the Croatian people. On the other hand, we have a gentleman named Izetbegovic who is not shyly but loudly threatening the Croats in BiH. So I quote him: “The Croats have too many rights, and if they continue this way in two years the prodigal forces will be organized, neither will they have what they have today, we will break the bonds of parity. The Croats can't have the same as the rest of us who have four times as many. If necessary, we have friends from Europe and Islamic countries. Don't give God the need, we'll win the military if it's necessary" etc. And in these statements we do not hear the reaction of Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, nor do we hear Andrej Plenkovic's statements, and even here we have agreed that Komsic represents us, that the Croats represent Komsic. And the only thing that matters to this government, the only thing that matters to this government is that Mr. Covic and HDZ have three MPs in HS again, and that seems to be the only interest, even if there were only a few hundred Croats in BiH, it is important that HDZ has 3 representatives from BiH, while the disappearance, the disastrous position of Croats in BiH, is not important. Croatian sovereigns will warn of this huge problem daily and regardless of what the Croatian government, which the current ruling set does not care about Croats in BiH, here in BiH will have its advocate in Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21885	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Miroslav Škoro will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a good thing you're a doctor, you see what's going on here at the pay phone, people are going for a walk. This is one of those topics, respected colleagues and colleagues, which probably the ruling majority, especially HDZ, would gladly skip over, gladly sleep over, and I must say at the very beginning of the respected Minister, a man I've known for a very long time that the arguments of the type "I was there", "I am there" does not mean anything in this situation. Namely, the report on the Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH seems to be a bit of a school task on the subject "list what the Croatian Prime Minister and Ministry did for the Croats in the previous year" and it can be concluded that the government and the ministry have done as much as they thought they should and is satisfied with it. Today, on this topic, representatives' clubs will adopt a report and we'll do it for this year, they'll eat the donkey wolf in BiH, which we're talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, it is not so important and it is current whether and how much Croatia has done for the Croats in BiH and what statistics say. It is much more important when it comes to the Declaration on the position of the Croats of BiH first to define what their position really is in the country. In time, after the impotentity of Europe and all other political factors to recognise and define that they try to stop and resolve relations in BiH, the United States is involved, and its authority comes first in '94. The Washington Agreement, and on November 21st, '95, so before 25th, the Dayton Agreement that stopped the war in BiH was concluded and was established, all agreeing because no one is satisfied, an unfair peace. Why do we say that peace is unfair? Because the Dayton Agreement and Annex 4 of that agreement, which applies as the Constitution of BiH, divides BiH into one part that is not called either Herzegovina or Bosnia, but defines it as a form of government and calls Republika Srpska and another part that is defined by the form of a state order and is called the Federation of BiH without any element of federalism. So the Dayton Agreement divides three sovereign peoples in BiH into two entities. The High Representative, Mr. Petric, said that the Dayton Agreement in BiH quotes "a wearing of a crazy shirt". After it was concluded by the same international high representative set up to manage the space of the former dark villa, which is very difficult to understand and understand and deal with in it. Sam further committed that crazy shirt to intervention in electoral legislation by introducing compensation lists, parallel mandates, intervening in the statutes of the City of Mostar and introducing the opposite annex 4. The Dayton Agreement to elect their representative to the Muslim Croats in the BiH presidency, so now we have a practical situation that mainly so-called. political elites in BiH, as well as here in Croatia, see the electoral law as the main key problem of the situation of Croats in BiH. True election law is a terrible problem, but it's not the main one. The main problem is the constitutional legal structure of BiH, which is set up so that there is no similar example in the world. On a daily basis, political practice shows that it is a completely worn out structure that looks more like it, Veseko Tenger would say to Frankenstein's political cloth than to the constitutionally legally decorated democratic country of three sovereign nations. The situation of Croats in BiH is very bad, even worse than it was in Yugoslavia. The tasks of the Croatian state not only on the basis of constitutional authority to care for Croats outside Croatia, but with the co-signature of the Dayton Agreement at the time when the content or spirit of the agreement in the equality of the people is disrupted by intervention. Croatia must seek a constitutional legal reshuffle that will introduce institutional opportunities that non-alienable sovereign national rights cannot be decided without the express political will of the Croats. It is a mistake to expect and to think that representatives of the three peoples in BiH will agree and reach some consensus. Representatives of the Muslim people want a unitary, civil single BiH with their majority and that's a fact. Serbs want to get out of BiH, and Croats are the only ones who want constitutional legal changes to enable BiH to be built and constitutionally reformed in a way that is primarily possible and a whole democratic country in which all three peoples will be equal. Our diplomacy needs to convince world factors because it is they who will decide that it is in the international community's interest to redecorate in BiH, that it is reorganised and that it is indeed a stable democratic European country. There is unfortunately no letter of activity in this report. The Croatian government must finally assume its role and clearly and loudly define the position of Croats in BiH. It should be said that I repeat it, bad and that it needs to be repaired, not at every step of the way, unsettledly saying that the prime minister and government will do this or that or that it will do anything to make BiH join the EU, the euro of integration, perhaps even introduce the euro, etc. Croatia must first of all do everything to help, among other things, that BiH repeats itself constitutionally legally to become a country of three sovereign and equal nations, that there are instruments in it that each one will be able to effectively protect and that it will never be abused. When that happens, it should be further pawned because it is of course in our interest for BiH to become a member of European integration because it would then be a regulated country which is ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian homeland in BiH. This now as the report shows it is actually one neglect, it is aiding, it is an alibi for what Croatia is already afraid to do for a long, long time, so to recognize how things are standing, to say it, and to recognize that it should be redefined and what should be done with who to do it and how to do it. When reading this report, it turns out that the Croats I have met with many times in my professional work in BiH are some burden to us Croatians in Croatia and Croatia should make sure that our Croats are provided with such conditions that we should neither buy them nor send them books, that we do not need to scholarship students, that we should not send money from Croatia to fix the bell tower down there because if we continue this way we can even create an animosity and think that some of our countrymen live in BiH who do nothing but wait for Croatia to send something to them, to open something for them, to open the library, to fix their home of health and give them a sanity vehicle. This concern for the Croats in BiH has been totally missed and this is not helping them, such assistance is barren and almost humiliating for these hardworking people, for our BiH Croats. They are proud and valuable and expect Croatia to prepare and conduct a serious parliamentary debate on their position in BiH, calling for our country's right and duty as signatories to the Dayton Agreement. And finally, if someone doesn't understand the words, and I'm convinced that a lot of them don't understand because they're waiting for the moment when the hand lifts into the air, look at the photo from the signing, it speaks more than a thousand words. Sometimes we forget that the Dayton Agreement on behalf of the Croats in BiH was signed by Dr. Franjo Tudjman, the first Croatian president, so the Republic of Croatia and founder of HDZ, who is currently with its trading partners in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21887	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Foreign and European Minister Goran Grlic Radman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21888	Of course, we always expect the opposition to have a different attitude or attitude, but actually I am here, when I know how much we worked and how much we advocated then, and we're not really all, then I'm actually disappointed with the incomprehension of your and Mr. Zekanovic and Mr. Škor, who's trying really to deprive or actually deny all these efforts that are actually going to be given a second rank, a third-rate rank of this report that we've actually been working on for a three or four months to be an adequate document, a decent document that would represent the involvement of this HDZ institution, I don't know whether it't been read or prepared in fact so that this one, now Mr. Skoro has gone, and I would remind him that he was just being the parliamentary representative of this HDZ, here he was sitting in the benches, but this one had a chance to be safe and 2007-08. to deal with it when it was time, and the hardest ones are this 4th year, the hardest years when perceptions in the world are so cemented that it is difficult to break down that one concrete already some, I would say, of the finished concepts that BiH should edit. And I know best as the foreign minister at the forums where all the obstacles we're facing are on that path. I expected to be like this, and it doesn't surprise me, but what I'm really glad about, I'm glad to actually be the reaction of our people in BiH. I also read the press that is published, the Croatian press in BiH, I don't know if you, here you have today's "Evening List" of BiH, says "this document is one of the indicators of the proactive relationship of the current government of the Republic of Croatia", etc., read gentlemen etc. The most important perception is from the field, and perception is the closest to reality. So, meetings not only with politicians, but with ordinary people from Orsaj, Odzak, Livna, Tomislavgrad, Skopje, which I received recently, also representatives from Skopje or Bugojne. I also had a cousin of 23, a father's cousin who disappeared in the Bulgarian group when he was Izetbegovic and Bisera Turkovic, which I told them, and now I think he's running a certain procedure on the prosecution. So, I'm sorry Mr. Skoru isn't here. Of course, he was looking forward to his performances professionally that as many Croats in Germany as possible at concerts etc., it does not surprise me, in the end it is good and it is, but the relationship with the Croats in BiH is, so first of all, the serious dimension of those who are leading the state policy, and above all, has a very great advantage if it is important to be the one who has a feeling for BiH as someone who is either born or born, etc. Yes, Mr. Zekanovic, you're right, Professor. Akrap said that every third citizen of the Republic of BiH, and this is ours and is a biological reserve you have the right to. But please don't at least minimize these efforts that are contentive, which are sterilized in this one document that we've given a great deal of effort. This is the first such document, this is the document that went to the HDZ initiative, it's our document that gives us the opportunity to be a polygon, it's a peaceful tool for evaluation and evaluation, and together with you to discuss constructively what it should be, Mr. Škoro said what was wrong, and he didn't say anything that should be said and how it should be, it's a politicisation for me, not a constructive debate. I'm always here, Ministry of Foreign Affairs like... The project will be grateful to all of you if you participate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, Mr. Wrkljan, we have a gentleman who's at the General Consulate in Melbourne's, he's, he's now, I just checked when you asked me this one, but he's not the only one, so here's what I can say to you with joy that this one in insurance work. There's only so much I can't stay here without answering because it's also me. I'm not indifferent to what you all said. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21889	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first is, please stay here, the first is the respected representative of Nevenko Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21890	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Minister, we like to say what we have preserved in the war most of the time by signing the Dayton Agreement we have kept. During the 2000-2005 period, interventions in the constitution of high representatives lost one of the pillars of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It's the legitimacy of representation. At the time here in this HS, in the Croatian public, they were having fun telling jokes about Croats in BiH, playing with white socks, and Pilateski was sending us to wash our hands in Sarajevo to solve our problem. To us Croats of the Pok. President Tudjman, to this day, this approach may be possible to someone a little bit, we have a big shift and a big step. Please comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21891	Dear state-run, respected foreign and European affairs minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21892	Thank you very much. I am also a personal witness to all of us, and Mr. Zekanovic said that someone said yes, so we came into this situation that as we are so much in favour of this day-to-day, people are comfortable, so they do not understand the issue of the comprehensive importance of the position of the Croatian people in BiH because even at the time of the Homeland War, whether Croatia was actually defending itself in, in BiH, if you remember in October of '91. First, the village of Ravna was brought down, and then others were saying in BiH, other peoples that it wasn't their war. The situation that was and we all witnessed this at least we're a little older that a lot of these paradoxal situations and it's hard in life to always look for you know in politics always logical solutions, and that's why we have to act together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21893	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21894	Your Honor, I personally voted in favour of this declaration and participated in its adoption, and I believe that this is not a bad document. However, I, I objected to you here not to solve key problems, and the key problems are implementation of the Dayton Agreement, for example, that was not the case in your report or almost nothing at all. I know that, since you come from that space that you have one great emotion and that people with emotions come to you and even to you, to be happy and to see you. However, if you ask a small man as objectively as he is not satisfied, there is no applause from the balcony as it was in the 3rd month of the crisis in Croatia, there is no reason why Croatians have never been worse in BiH, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21895	Dear Minister Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21896	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, I totally understand you, but you know here we're talking about the 2019 report, but this year 2020 was very, very active, but because of this topic we're going to put this in '21. After the 2020 report, But I can tell you that much has been done and that you can believe in good, in the right way, in the parched direction and that you can cultivate optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21897	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21898	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this declaration was adopted in HS on 14 December 2018, so here is before 2.g. My question is whether it's in those 2 years. The position of Croats in BiH is better, the same or worse than at a time when this declaration was brought because it is only the best way to see the effect of the declaration? In these 35 seconds, the statement by the then president of the BiH Presidency, Ali Izetbegovic, "is not our war" referred to the invitation of men, Bosniaks or Muslims who wanted to mobilise JNA not to go to war against Croatia because it was not their war on the part of JNA, so it is not quite correct to describe the passiveity of the then government in Sarajevo at the beginning of the war against Croatia because they were then part of Yugoslavia and had to respond to the mobilization of JNA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21899	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21900	Thank you, Mr. Bauk, and you have probably seen my opening letter, so in fact we are talking about discretion, so we are really talking about certain institutional violence when it comes to this electoral reform, and on the other hand we are talking about how much in such complex conditions Croatia has actually contributed to institutional, political, economic, culturally, in order to improve this situation which, of course, we are not satisfied with this. Now you mentioned, I didn't mention any name, but you did, you mentioned that name, this way suggests that if you remember Croats on Shiroki Brijeg, then you also let this JNA army on his call, the gentleman you mentioned, who later died in the Kupresh field. There's a lot of complicated you know and complex in BiH, let me be both half-years old and a witness older than you, so I know a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21901	The next replica of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Minister, I fully agree with you that constructive debate and focus matters should be done, so the proposals are what we need. So I have a question for you and I'm asking you a fact, not an interpretation, so numbers. My question is, how much help do you show to Croats in BiH under the term "International Development Assistance" and how much of it is invested in gender equality as one of the Croatian and European priorities of development cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21903	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21904	So that, thank you very much, Mr. Representative, we have also presented this also the other day as an annual report from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which, in the source of jurisdiction, is exactly the development cooperation where we have said that it is for countries, third countries, neighbouring countries where Croats live, that the highest part went to BiH, when we talk about the amount. You asked me for the amount, I can't exactly remember how much this million kuna is, but certainly it's from earlier years where and where significant it is. I think I said this number here and I said that somewhere around 29% of this is more than any of the previous governments. But as long as we've got these 15 minutes, seconds, I might say I'd step up around our forums. I recently told NATO this meeting that a step, a step towards further Euro-Atlantic integration and security of BiH... Modification arrangements [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Election law to remove [[Intruder: Thank you]] discrimination and respect the equality of three constituent peoples. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21905	The next replica is the respected representative of Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21906	Mr. Minister, I asked you a very specific question to tell me how many members of the elite Croatian unit from AT Lucko are involved in the insurance of our embassies around the world? I asked you to say just one name, you didn't know how to pronounce it, you went, you sat down, you came back half an hour later and you said again to nothing that you had found a member of AT Lucko in Melbourne after 30 years. Croatian states, after thousands and thousands of dead of our young men, after thousands and thousands of wounded, destroyed Croatia, are you not ashamed to say that you have found a member of AT Luke in Melbourne who provides our embassy with a number of these guys who have given their lives, body and family to the altar of their homeland?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21907	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21908	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative. However, I am very surprised by your question, because your question suggests a certain permanent segregation of actually Croatian defenders. You're talking about, about Luke, and I can tell you that anyone else, diplomatically... representation in insurance or, in fact, everyone works as a Croatian defender. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, listen, I was a humanist back in the '90s. I know exactly where who works, but I don't think this is the kind of place you can talk about. This isn't some kind of competence or actually a human bid. They're all people who are, is, they're all professionals today, but if they were involved in the work of the service of foreign affairs, they are, and that I would actually have every day and every morning the number where there is someone in a particular place, if you excuse you, it's not me who can ensure that I'm ready for your question today when We're talking about the report, about the report. [[Intruder: Thank you]] on the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's exactly how important the declaration is to us. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21909	Mr. Minister, thank you very much. Your colleague, Vrkljan, has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21910	The Rules of Procedure of 238 Ministers have been injured, today we are talking about BiH and the situation of Croats in that country, so tell me, as Resolute Minister, one name of Croatian defender, or from AT Lucko, who is employed in our embassy for insurance in Sarajevo, Mostar or anywhere else in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21911	Comrade Vrkljan, you are aware that it was a replica. Therefore, I am your foundation. In 240th century, I give notice by taking away words, it's a theoretical thing because you've stopped speaking, but it's another one of your reminders. Make sure you don't get a third, please. Let's move on, we've got a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21912	Thank you very much. Ministers, in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, people in the BiH area have given great pain. HVO is part of Croatian defence forces, i.e. HV. The fact is that you have done nothing but declareatory, in terms of the protection of the people of the HVO members. He has done more, hand to heart, and a more sovereign policy has the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic than all HDZ ministers, prime ministers and presidents have. The president of the post-Dr. Francis Tudjman, more sovereign politics. The man had the courage to honor one of the commanders of HVO's troops, General Jelic and his troops, and you never had the power or the ability. A more sovereign policy, recognised by you from the SDP and HDZ, conducted by Zoran Milanovic rather than all HDZ ministers and prime ministers. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21913	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21914	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. I told you here, I gave you here a report on the substance, on the content, I was also talking about it, I'm not talking about the parading action here, but about the concrete action of the Croatian government. If you want to understand that, then I thank you for that. If you want to back it up, I hope you'll support this report so it'll actually be even better next year because that, that's actually our goal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21915	And the last replicas of the esteemed representative of Željko Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21916	Dear Ministers, reading your 2019 report, and especially now I see with a lot of optimism you announce in 2020 what we look forward to, please refer to, this process of illegal migration and the attitude towards our Croats in parts that are the most vulnerable, which are actually gravitating towards the border of the Republic of Croatia if we have received information that comes here with targeted orientations to Croatian villages, etc., so please. And otherwise I can remind you, one great hero from AT Lučko Miletic Miroslav Miki is from, besides the other 10 heroes from AT Lučko, and not by accident Dr. Vrkljan said AT Lučko is they the backbone and the first armed force in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. So remember, Miroslav Miki Miletic, he's your first day at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21917	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21918	Well, I know that, Mr. Sacic. In fact, this was your exposure more than one finding actually to the optimism that I care about, and I would like to pass that optimism on to you, and I would really like that, of course, that, of course, it's always another point of view to be constructive, that it offers some solution, but I, I would be very sad if you didn't recognize the efforts we've made so far and that we're still making. I would like you to encourage us in our efforts when it comes to protecting the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you. ... If illegal immigration, I wouldn't think so, it's still that way, it's being monitored and supervised. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] We usually have here except that 65,000 cops along the border have the best tech equipment of their surveillance, it's still the one, actually they want because if they go down to the green border there's nowhere to go, so there's still the one up Bihaćki pocket because it's close to Slovenia, so upstairs they're focused the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21919	Thank you very much. We now proceed with the clubs of the representatives, Mr. Minister, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will now speak the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21920	My colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing this report on the implementation of the Croatian position declaration in BiH at the 12th month. The fact that it took 12 months to make a summary of what was done on the declaration in the last year speaks about the relationship to the declaration itself. We ended up getting neither rich nor complex document, but a catalogue of meetings that were held and humanitarian aid sent to the Croats in BiH. It's the wrong tone already. In the preamble, the report cites the preamble to the declaration, where the declaration in its preamble highlights the importance and equality of three constituent peoples and their legitimate and proportionate representation, and confirms BiH's support on its European and Euro-Atlantic path. As if we apologize for even talking about this issue of disenfranchisement and revote of Croats in BiH, we are calling for a resolution by the EU parliament, and we are calling for a decision by the Constitutional Court in the Ljubic case in BiH, and we are calling for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We are concerned about the parts of our people in another country not because it stands in the constitution because this would mean that there is no constitution Croatia should not worry about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is the national state of the Croatian people, as it is. It is not now that a group of taxpayers at one point in history or a group of citizens agreed precisely in this strange form that taxpayers agreed to pay in the same register there to make a state. It has its own history and past in which the Czechs were paid and paid for by some who remained outside the present-day borders of the Republic of Croatia. So we worry first because it's our people. Second because their survival is vital interest of the Republic of Croatia, geostrategic, security, economic and demographic. Thirdly, because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to respect human and national rights, and Croatia is a co-creator, a signator and guarantor of the Dayton Peace Agreement, whose annex is 4th and the BiH Constitution. And Dayton has been drastically violated and amended by the imposed amendments of the Election Law to the damage of Croats. None of the high representatives imposed, that I am now not going back to explaining both Petric's amendments and Barry's amendments, have passed the parliamentary procedure. This bit of cowardly caution in the general formulation so that some big brother doesn't mind something, shows a fundamental problem, which is the softness and lack of concrete external political support and talks and pressure if negotiations with partners from the EU and the United States are needed. The foreign ministry's report, which is part of this report, quoted me as saying, "The Euro-Atlantic route of BiH is one of the key foreign policy objectives and strategic priorities of Croatia." This is taken as an axiom, but I think it's not only understandable. It's a myth. The myth that if BiH joined the EU to resolve the national issue, the Croatian issue in BiH. I think it's just as stupid as that story that when we hear about Vukovar or Mostar, it's said "that people are employed, that they have bigger salaries, that there would be no better living nationalism and national problems". Oh, yeah? We have Belfast which is much more developed than Zagreb, so there are miles of walls that physically separate communities, which is neither in Vukovar nor in Mostar and Molotov cocktails every little bit. Here's an example of Catalonia and Spain in the EU. So, the entry itself, however fantastic BiH sounded in the EU, will solve nothing. Secondly, BiH is a friendly state of the Republic of Croatia only if legitimate representatives of Croats are involved in its government. If the Croat is not there she does not have to be friendly, and I will give you an enemy act from 2019 that is not listed here. It is two members, the Bosniak two representatives in the presidency of Dzaferovic and Komsic tried to stop the construction of the Peljega Bridge and internationalise the issue. And why is the Peljek Bridge being built? Well, because we broke up in some way with Milorad Dodik. Dodik vetoed and pushed into the Republika Srpska Assembly two-thirds to support the veto where he was accused of being a spare Croatian member of the BiH presidency, but apparently there was some kind of deal with a bridge in Gradiška or I don't know, that's what we burned in BiH. What was I supposed to do? Croatia should have declared Zeljko Komsic a Person non grata the second time he was elected, if it was thought for the first time, that the majority Croats would still vote for him. Croatia should also make it clear that not only will it not support BiH's European path but it will block the acquisition of the candidate country's status until the election law changes, i.e. He doesn't return what he was like after Dayton, which guarantees every nation that he can choose his own representatives. If Bulgaria can block Macedonia, and most European countries and the public view it as completely unwarranted, unwarranted reasons, Croatia can do so for very justified reasons with BiH because we are not talking about bilateral blackmails, as Slovenia did to Croatia, but we are talking about the protection of truly European values, which is in multinational countries to respect the constitution, and the constitution, Annex 4, there is very clear when it comes to the constitutionality of the people. What are we reading in the report? The list of meetings, Bishop Komarica Plenkovic came, came to Covic Plenkovic, Plenkovic went to them, and they moaned about how the Croats were disproved, others elect their representatives. No one has been standing behind Croats in BiH for two decades. Croatia also had the stages of an active undermining by President Mesic, here today is the crowning work, it is honoring this guest of the sleek fair in Gradac, through one foreign minister named Gordan Jandrokovic, who has nothing to do with Gordan Jandrokovic today as it is not the HDZ that is used to refer to as the stupid and unacceptable thesis of God Ljubic about the third entity, to the legendary already ambassador of Croatia to Sarajevo, Tonci Stanisic, who is in an interview on the release in 2010 when Croats are on their knees politically in BiH when the second time Komsic was elected and the imposed Platform government Stanisic boasts that he is the first foreign ambassador who congratulated Komsic on the election victory. It was Croatian politics. I agree with the Minister this is a shift that is being done, I congratulate you on that, but that shift must be tighter and stronger. I mentioned item 5 that did nothing, investigating the murders of officials and returnees. I mentioned item 6 mentioning the Peace Implementation Council report. What is our communication with this Peace Implementation Council? Not at all. No letter has been sent, no meeting has been organised, and that is the essence of this declaration. We are in favour of BiH's 25th European path. The international agreement signed by Croatia is being violated, and the breach of the agreement is likely to be reported and sanctioned, rather than rewarded. In 2019, did any of the officials develop a strategy or plan not to do so anymore? Who will be responsible for violating the international agreement? We have a list of the meetings of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Covic and Komarica most often and two are international, one with Juncker on 7 June 2019 and this congress of the European People's Party in Zagreb. Now, there's one very interesting thing. It is reported in a meeting with Komarica or Covic that Prime Minister Plenkovic is talking about violating the rights of Croats in BiH, constitutionality, that others are electing political representatives and calling for amendments to the Electoral Law, however, he does not mention it when he talks with Juncker or at a congress of the European People's Party or, at least, not listed in the report, I can only talk about what is in the report. Therefore, it is not mentioned at meetings with high EU duties, officials of a violent change in the electoral law and the need to change that already only lemonade on support for BiH's European path. Finally, everything mentioned in this report falls essentially within the central state office's domain for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, concerns this aid, mainly humanitarian Croats in BiH, and all this is welcome. In addition, this list of meetings is mostly Prime Minister Plenkovic. When all of this is summed up, what is stated in the report does not satisfy the requirements of the declaration. So we at the Most Club can't support this report. Although we support the change, I repeat the relationship, at least there is no active undermining and holding a shovel in this political burial of Croats in BiH but something has started to work, we would like it to be stronger. What I heard on the committee from the ministry's representative is "so you know there are some things that aren't in the report," which I know what's being said in the culinary, whether anything's been done, I can talk about the report. I can also be in good hope that it is very much up to 2020, as well come on now 2019, but you will see the next report for 2020 it will be a miracle. I wish I did, I wish I did, if that were the case. But what we got for 2019, I repeat, does not satisfy what the declaration requires and the goals it sets and there is no point in supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21921	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Minister Grlic Radman will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21922	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Professor, this last one has turned out to be satisfactory, unsatisfactory, criteria can be stricter and lighter, etc., but this is your right of course. I'm sorry you won't support this report, but believe me, I'm not going to grieve this one at all because we know what we know, we have enough courage, courage, and we know which direction it is. And butter should probably be replaced by another category. I can tell you that it shouldn't be all this, the report would actually be curdicated and broader if it were a humanitarian nature that you try to make this conscious of the taxing of these areas of activity, which I would disagree with but it's really comprehensive, but it'll be even more comprehensive if it's being watchedholistic, you know, we didn't actually observe here and evaluate 2020. Although there were jumps you know inside this one when you talk about meetings etc., you mention Juncker etc. However, we should keep in mind the fact that there are no big jumps in nature, who quietly performs far away, and I am sure of the way in which we are going. You mentioned, of course, Bulgaria, which may not be the best example in the situation when the issue of northern Macedonia, which is 15 years old, has actually been resolved. was the hostage of the name and which was the most prominent candidate to launch negotiations with the EU and Albania, and then certainly this Bulgaria with which we, in fact, brought together a declaration of support to Greeks, Romania and so on a year ago. And at one point, blocking you can use that blocking mechanism, it's not a problem you know, but it's an unpopular problem. You're actually always kind of lonely. What is wise and wise in diplomatic engagement is wise and wise to have allies. You know, it's different in a university life, academic, it's there, it's always this one, you have one of your discourses, so you have one narrative, but here you have to have to be qualified as someone who's credible in representing an opinion you have to have allies and mostly we're actually working on it, so I don't take this as a softness but in fact, one big step. The Atlantic route, the Euro-Atlantic road, of course. BiH where Croatia, it would certainly... In fact, the economic and socio-eco, therefore the social, economic situation in BiH and that is the interest of the Croats living in BiH, then we are actually in the same European family. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think by sharing this one big long, long border a thousand kilometers, I don't think it's either, nor politically stable, nor is it politically safe, I'm just saying in view of that fact. And that's exactly what we do, so we engage and support the Euro-Atlantic road just having that fact of the Croats in BiH, so that one day, just as we expect to enter the Schengen area so that it won't be and when you enter your Ljubusk you won't show your passport, etc., I think that's actually that interest for everyone, this is clear. Persona non grata. Yeah, that's one of these, that's a term with the technique used in diplomatic practice, which is actually kind of already outdated. There are other methods that this one is also surrogates for, and you've already seen for sure these past two months this one if you've read possibly my statements then it tells you enough. Peace Implementation Council. I agree that Croatia can also be this very active one, and this is also what we are talking about, we are not sitting with our hands cut. Meetings with foreign officials always, I can tell you, always and always, talk about Croats in BiH when it comes to the Western Balkans, when it comes to BiH. I would still like this one if you were to overcome the actual reasons why you would not support this report, I think it would be nice to support this report, I think it would be in some way, our common pain or you could disagree with many, but I think it would be a single confession we're not happy with this, it can be better, so that's why we're actually here to evaluate it, to evaluate it, to evaluate it. Well, you can be against it, I'm very sorry, but I think it would be very good to support this report because I think it's relevant and it's good and it paints exactly all of our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21923	Thank you. Stay a moment, we have one replica, two lines of forgiveness, a respected representative of the Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21924	Dear Minister. Asking me and the Bridge Club to back this declaration would be like the man who ordered whiskey in the coffee shop and brought him a camel. So, whiskey I ordered I got a camel. According to points 5 and 6, which are key points of this declaration, nothing has been done, so no contact has been reached with the Peace Implementation Council, and that is exactly what should be asked why Dayton has been violated, i.e. The principle of the constitutionality of the people, which is the foundation of Dayton, which changes the electoral law obviously and drastically violates, is a fundamental problem. So I can't support a report that by the rate, by being a declaration has done nothing. That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21925	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21926	Thank you because I know it seems to me that in 2018 you weren't for that declaration, perhaps that's why. I think the Bridge was against the declaration. ... I don't know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21927	Let's not discuss it that way. It's not appropriate. Now the replica will have a respected representative, Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21928	Dear Minister. The question is this, here you mentioned that diplomacy is very important to have an ally. Here's what Mr. Detachment was all about. So to comment then, I was in the field and the citizens of Slavonski Brod are still complaining about the polluted air coming from a company owned by Zarubezhneft from Russia. It is generally known in foreign policy relations that Dodik plays very well with Putin, two spikes in this area, so I am interested in who you play with and how do you play this football to protect our citizens in Slavonski Brod? So here we are quite interested in who you are and how do you play in these geopolitical spheres to protect our citizens in Slavonski Brod who still live in unpolluted air today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21929	Minister Grlic Radman's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21930	Thank you very much for that question, but it is certainly not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that our citizens in Slavonski Brod breathe such air and I think it is also the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible for that part, but I cannot tell you details, but that we are on an indifferent basis, we are not sure that it is in our interest to have citizens to enjoy all the quality of life standards as well as all the other citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21931	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HDZ, thank you Ministers can take your place, in the name of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21932	... The government of the Republic of Croatia, with the full support and support of the parliamentary majority throughout the past term, has been committed to strengthening the position of the Croatian people in BiH, particularly in achieving its equality guaranteed by the constitutional framework. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] This commitment also shows a report by the IVEP ahead, which shows that the Prime Minister and the Government have made huge efforts to advocate and support the stability and functionality of BiH and its constitutional framework, which is the starting point for the full equality of three constituent peoples. The Prime Minister pointed out in particular the need for urgent amendments to the electoral law that would carry out this equality, and the government's activities took place in two directions. First, through regular consultations with legitimate representatives of the Croatian people and other political officials and representatives of religious communities in BiH, and secondly, at meetings with senior officials of EU member states and European institutions of the North Atlantic Union, the UN and other international organisations. The fact that the government of Andrej Plenkovic has managed to put this issue on the agenda of important bilateral meetings during the past term, but also European institutions from foreign ministers to the European Council and on the agenda of the UN bodies, is a major shift compared to the earlier period in which the issue was practically not discussed at all. All implementation consultations and meetings highlighted support for BiH's European path with the support of reforms and meeting accession criteria. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Presidency Programme for the EU Council was also adopted, which also included further commitment to BiH's progress towards the EU's full membership candidate status, which is one of Croatia's most important foreign policy priorities. The MVEP in the implementation of the declaration also focused on BiH's European path, with BiH at its disposal the professional capacities and experience of Croatia from the EU accession process. Representatives of BiH institutions at all levels have received strong and unequivocal messages that BiH can count on support from the Republic of Croatia, its approximation to the EU and NATO. In addition to all these activities of the government and the foreign and European ministry, the effort of all other governmental resors to improve the situation in BiH should be highlighted. First of all, through activities of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, support for projects of strategic importance for the preservation and strengthening of Croatian Corps such as schools, hospitals, dorms and homes for older and powerless. Also infrastructure projects, as well as those that enable the creation and creation of new jobs. This should also be accompanied by support from the Ministry of Education projects aimed at better quality conditions of education in BiH, support for local economy and economic cooperation through two HGK offices, co-financing of cultural events and other support with a view to raising living standards, and thus preserving the Croatian Corps in BiH, which is our main goal. In conclusion, the report in question shows that a lot of work has been done over the past year, most of the requirements of the declaration have been made, as well as a significant shift in the promotion of Croatian rights in BiH. Unfortunately, we cannot be satisfied until the full equality of the Croatian people in BiH is achieved, or while there is the slightest possibility of imposing on the Croatian people members of the BiH presidency. That is why we encourage the government to continue and intensive dialogue with BiH to raise, to raise this, this, this, this, this, this, this effort, and to finally achieve what we have outlined in the declaration and what we have brought the declaration for. Therefore, esteeming everything that has been done so far and all that we have mentioned, the HDZ Club will support and accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21933	Thank you very much. Next, the next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21934	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Perhaps my problem is that I take it a little bit too seriously the duties of the MPs in this HS, and I also get the pre-conditional provisions of the Rules of Procedure that require us to talk about the subject. The topic is a report on the implementation of the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH for 2019. It is my understanding that it is our mission as an agent to assess whether this report has met the requirements prescribed by the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH adopted in 2018. And the only one who has pointed out in this debate quite well that this report does not in any way correspond to what the declaration itself requires is Mr Rasdić and Mr Miroslav Škoro in part. I may disagree with them that Croatia should set itself up towards resolving the problems and position of the Croatian people in BiH, whether or not we should support the Euro-Atlantic path, so in our political views we are diverged, but in the conclusion that this report cannot be supported for an elementary reason because it does not speak in any way about what Croatia has done to fulfil its obligations in the declaration, it does. And I am sorry that the rapporteur on behalf of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia when she said that the majority of votes supported this report did not at least indicate that there were dissonant tones and at least some of the reasons that were highlighted in the debate itself. And I'm sorry, in fact, that my colleague Rasdic himself in this assembly didn't expose everything he put on the board yesterday, I think it would be in the interest of all the representatives and Croatian citizens to actually hear it. But I don't really blame you because when I hear the emptyness in the contents of our foreign minister, then really a man has to understand that it kills in the term. Now let me go back a little bit to the point. So, not only did we not say enough about the activities of the Republic of Croatia and we didn't say anything in substance but we didn't say anything about the real position of the Croatian people. It doesn't explain why today we believe that the full constitutionality, which is where the problems are in the electoral legislation, is not being achieved, why we are looking for their amendment. Worse than that. With one single word, we did not refer to the standard of living and the quality of life of the Croats in BiH, we did not wonder what was bothering them, why they could not reach health services, what is their quality of education, why we must invest so generously in social assistance because indeed this report comes down to, giving social assistance. And why is that? Well, because obviously the current government is not in the interest of the situation of Croats in BiH, nor are they concerned with strengthening the institutional framework of BiH. The HDZ is obviously important to preserve its own voter base, thus promoting the interests of those who will vote for HDZ in the future. The report also highlights those meetings held with HDZ representatives, and this is apostrophe rather than the name and last name of the person with whom the Prime Minister met at European level, for example. This only shows that Croatia, led by the HDZ, continues those same policies that have been swept away by corruption that the Croats in BiH have, as well as by Croatians in the Republic of Croatia and have brought us into the situation in which we are now. And this state may best describe one monograph, one book, actually published scientific research by Tade Jurić, our professor from the Croatian Catholic University here in Zagreb. He talks about the emigration and the Croats from BiH to Croatia, and then after several years of abandoning them, leaving Croatia and going dominantly to the Republic of Germany, about motives, about reasons, about disappointment, about the fact that they were actually driven away by corruption, clienttelism, nepotism, hopelessness. By continuing the same failed policies of Croatia, and towards the people of BiH and Bosnia, there will be a hopeless state in which our members of the Croats and our people will not be able to achieve their civil rights, so Bosnia will flee with its head regardless of the countries in which there is a functional state and functional democracy, and that is what is not there in Bosnia, however we look at which way their resolution should be. And now that I'm back on the subject and just a report why I'm criticizing him as one that shouldn't be adopted in this HS. So, there's a lot of squeamish words, a lot of phrases, a lot of paroles on the equality of three constituent peoples and their legitimate and proportionate representations, and confirmation of BiH's support on its European and Euro-Atlantic path. It is said that the national authorities in the Republic of Croatia have been given tasks in achieving these objectives and that they are set certain objectives for which an annual report should be submitted. This report does not specify even those objectives, does not specify what is, in fact, a single competent authority and which was obliged by the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia to carry out a specific action or activity. But literally not a single word. When we talk about activities, I say the whole report is actually about it and it comes down to the praise of the character and part of the sun god Ra, Andrej Plenkovic. When on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Proposer, Mrs. Andreja Zgombic said this is a beautiful, even lyrical or something, some kind of epithet she gave, activities that show the sacrifice of the government of the Republic of Croatia in accomplishing the mission from the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. However, when we look at the content of these activities except that they are numbered, you don't know how many, you don't know where, you don't know when, you don't even know who. And indeed, if HS is expected to vote on something then at least we should really have some substance, so that we can say whether what this declaration wanted to achieve or actually the declaration itself, perhaps because of that some MPs voted against, should have represented a clean pamphlet and a pre-election pamphlet of HDZ, which in some way wanted to tap into its electoral base. Basically, it all comes down to it. As much as the social aid amount, I'll call it that. It's social aid, not development aid that went up 50% last year. It is expected that the report also mentions the multiannual financial framework as a form of assistance to Croats in BiH, that in 2021, the amount we donate will rise again because in 2022 we have re-elections in BiH itself, and it is important how the HDZ will pass there. And why is that done? Well, because when you donate, you create a certain ratio of addiction to those you've given something to, as well as loyalty to those who have given something, and you don't build your own capacities, especially within the framework of institutions to fight for your rights and interests in a certain way. That's what the main, the main, the main grudge of this report is. I would also like to point out that I find it inappropriate that when we talk about the activities carried out by the Republic of Croatia, even in relation to the Croats in BiH, those events that have a purely party character are particularly apostrophe. With certain topics and certain words in a report like this, I say this is the report of the HS and the Croatian state, not the HDZ, and should not be so significant that, in the context of the implementation of this declaration, the congress of the European People's Party, where the Prime Minister has made it clear that Croatia puts a special emphasis on BiH and supports it on its European path. What the president of the HDZ was doing within the Congress of the European People's Party is your private matter, and it is our country's business whether we protect the interests of the Croatian people and not the HDZ voters as they deserve it. This report clearly states that it is not good, so the Centre and GLAS Club will not support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21935	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21936	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Nuts. I may not have heard from this one, but when you said emptyness in content you know it's always this issue of emotion and raid, and in this content of emotion is strongly embedded, yes, but I'm saddened that you brought it into line with HDZ and thus injured all those beautiful civil servants who, frankly, are disciplined, diligently, therefore, are workingly institutions that have been deprived of any party influence. I realized, in fact, that it bothers you that this declaration was just adopted and brought to HDZ on December 14th and that we actually wanted to do it in a way to the Croatian Parliament, so if there were no HDZ there would be no declaration, there would be no reports. Of course we can look at the complexity of this and help you just want to look at in the context of social assistance. You speak and you show great concern and I certainly thank you for that, but I do recognize actually trying in your speech not to see it actually, I don't know if you were in BiH, have been visiting those places, which actually those Croats want, people, ordinary people, children, youth, where you have gray zones. So, this is not about social assistance, but about including Croats first of all you have border counties, their cities what allows EU funds, I mentioned INTERREG, INTERREG, IPA specifically didn't mention it, I talked about the activities of building housing that are actually a good reflex and some way of calling for a return. I don't know if you've been in places of Posavina, Odjak, they're beautiful settlements, beautiful houses that actually come back to Orash, where people come. We didn't really get as you said this one used to be or so forth. With baroque hyperboles that we would somehow give this one here if one, some, by you, was probably some false luxury of something where we were really trying to make this one and show everything that has been done so far. Of course the political path is very important, it is also a reflection and a reflection of the situation in BiH that we are not satisfied with. Both Croatia as a member of the EU and, in particular, given our Presidency of the EU Council this year in the first half, which gives us strength, legitimacy and global visibility, we are just working on the fact that the Dayton Agreement, which at that time means a lot, but therefore that it is not perfect and that it is, after 25 years, intertwined by both high representatives and changes, etc., to the harm of the Croatian people in BiH, that it is in the interest that this Dayton Agreement is not to return to originality, and at least to change in the spirit of time and not to harm any people, and certainly not to the least to the harm of the Croatian people in BiH. So also colleague Andreja Metelko Zgombić, who has been in the house since the first days, who is an excellent, excellent professional and who is working very hard, I mean this and which you certainly know very well and expert and expert she presented yesterday this same report on the board, I was prevented because I was in Brussels at a meeting of foreign ministers, so here I think I am glad that the board accepted the report by most votes. I hope that today will also be accepted by most votes, but we will not be saddened if you have not recognized the quality of the report that actually speaks about 2019, and we will have this and on this we are doing enough courage, courage, knowledge and political will and even more courageous and bolder in fact to fight for the interests and position of the Croatian people in BiH because we know best, I have visited and I have been in the smallest village and village and I know this situation. So unfortunately in your speech, I didn't recognize that you were really on the spot and that you know the needs of the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21937	We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Dalia can I give you my word or doesn't matter how we operate? [[Intruder: Yes, well-respected ministers obviously...]] So let me give you my word after all, shall I? Here you go, distinguished representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21938	Well, thank you, Chairman. I must say, I am not sure if you know what the needs of the Croatian people in BiH are because, among other things, you did not state it. And when we talk about the substance itself, from the content of the report that is unacceptable to the Croatian Parliament, I will point to two things. You say during 2019. A number of trainings focused on the challenges facing the governments of Southeast European countries have been held. A series of training, you didn't specify a single one specifically. The assistance was also provided through the transfer of knowledge and experience of experts from Croatia in implementing the terminology of European legislation through a number of educations involving experts from the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers, nothing concrete. When, who passed on what knowledge to whom? You did not specify this, I am talking about sub-capacitation of you to draw up a report on which the Croatian Parliament can metrically discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21939	Dear Minister Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21940	Thank you very much, but I'm glad you read it, actually it only suggests and gives reference to a specific competent body. So if you wanted to have such a single report, it would certainly have one 200 pages, but if the competent authority were involved, yes. So it has one of its own developmental dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21941	The following is the replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21942	Thank you. Please, given that you did not respond to my colleague when he specifically asked for specific numbers about how much international development aid is considered to help the Croats in BiH, I am now asking you for another concrete information that should be clearly visible in the report. You said that we do not know what the specific problems of Croats in BiH are or that we are criticising. One of the major problems of the Croats and all other BiH citizens is child poverty, so more than 31% of BiH children live below the poverty threshold, so every 3 children. I would like to know how much through international development assistance and direct assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, targeted funds last year to combat child poverty or mitigate the consequences of child poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21943	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. Actually, that's the basic thing. It is in our interest to have a functional, stable and prosperous, so a social stable Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, but when it comes to the position of the Croatian people, then it is certain that this assistance is actually aimed at those situations that they really need most and that certainly life's existence. But you will recognize by reading this report what the projects were, where we were, where that aid went and financially, professionally and every other one. I don't know how you meant poverty. I think poverty is one of the general categories that actually affects the whole world, but I'm not, therefore, there aren't some kind of gray zone in Bosnia and Herzegovina where this poverty is just as prominent among the Croatian people. Indeed, in various reports I'm sorry. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21945	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Price. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21946	Dear Minister, you mentioned that this report is not related to the HDZ party. But the fact is that all the help that goes from Croatia is paid by all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But the political benefits are always somehow HDZ. A large majority of Croatians in BiH who vote win HDZ. Thanks to this, HDZ has three representatives from the diaspora. At present, your government, the government in which you sit, has one hand of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, are three representatives from the diaspora. If you didn't have such support today you wouldn't even have power in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21947	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're the party that actually lifted the wherever and where you could have had more numbers, and you could've had the same, but the possibility was that you had representatives from the SDP, but that's somewhere or in 2000 when the SDP was last in power. I think that's the year you abolished 12 parliamentary representatives from the diaspora or something. It's mostly limited to three places, it's reduced to three places. But that's everyone, they can mean, the Croats outside can go on the list and vote for any party. Therefore, but obviously you don't actually have an electoral base of emigration so that these three representatives of HDZ are a reflection of the factual state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21949	The Honorable Representative, Bauk, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21950	This Regulation shall enter The minister probably said by mistake that the SDP abolished three MPs in the diaspora when we were in power, which is incorrect. The Constitution has been amended in 2010. For years, the majority of HDZ deputies voted because there were more, the SDP and most other MPs. That's when the number of MPs was set to three. So, if it was just us, it would be zero, it's no problem at all. But the deal with HDZ was to be three. If you want to change the deal, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21951	Thank you very much. And you know I have to give myself a warning because it was a replica. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21952	Thank you. So, except that the minister does not answer specific questions concerning the Declaration I see that he has lost concentration, he says that the SDP government has reduced the number of representatives, meaning our diaspora and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Croatian Parliament. It just made HDZ's government deal with the SDP. So just concentrate a little, Minister. And when you talk about it, some kind of state on the ground that you're here to transfer the situation on the ground. You know what people send me. From whom does Grlic Radman receive these reports on the situation on the ground? Perhaps from the employees of Herceg-Bosnia's Elektroprivred. Our Croats are in a worse position in Bosnia and Herzegovina, obviously you are not aware of it and you are well told at the beginning that you live in some parallel reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21953	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can believe that you have people who send it to you, but I'm telling you about my own experience and my experience is authentic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21955	The next replica is the respected representative of Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21956	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. A member of his colleagues criticises this report by making political views calling the government's assistance humanitarian and similar. Do you think without this help we in BiH could preserve such a health system? Do you think that without these support we could have a university at today's level with a tendency to raise quality? Do you feel that in a political sense today's situation has led us to silence Croatian politics, Croatian governments. So, 2000. By 2005, key decisions were made where we as a people were deconstituted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21957	Dear Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21958	Thank you very much, Mr. Barbaric. You really know as a man who comes from Bosnia and Herzegovina that Mostar as one leading institution of the University of Mostar is the leading institution not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the wider one that has, which is highly valued scientifically, where about 12,000 students go from it is 12% only from Croatia. The restoration of the Croatian National Theatre, all those institutions that actually care for Croatian national cultural identity, are in the interest of helping the Republic of Croatia. And finally, all our help not only through the declaration is actually the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia. So we really need to look for ways to actually make this help even more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21959	Thank you very much. We are now going to the next club, which will be the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club and the time will be shared by the respected representative Glavasevic and the respected representative Bencic. First of all, the respected representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, after these discussions so far, I can only say something completely different in the spirit of the flying circus of Monite Painton. 25 years after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which is one quarter of a century, we need to say clearly and honestly that BiH also includes the Croatian community in BiH failed to take a swing and make progress towards the EU and other integrations. The cause should be sought primarily in policies primarily created from national visions, neglecting the interests of all BiH citizens and citizens. Such policies have proved diversified and inefficient, and we want to ask in this place how many opportunities we still have to give such policies. We think it's time to finally acknowledge that such policies are an obstacle to BiH's development. We believe that the debate on BiH needs to be moved from the discourse on constitutional peoples towards a discourse on the development of the country from the perspective of its citizens and citizens. We do not want to say that anyone should give up their national identity, their culture or their language, on the contrary, these are elements that BiH citizens should continue to cultivate and have our support in doing so. We want to say that national identities should no longer be the primary criterion for policymaking in BiH and BiH. We believe that the Croatian community in BiH can and should be a change generator and bearers of European messages for the benefit of the entire BiH. The fact that in BiH we are at least a number of constituent people, as well as the fact that Croats with dual citizenship have and the EU passports gives us the position to be politically creative compared to others figuratively speaking of course. This means that we can think of BiH as a democratic and equal country in which the national key is not the only and crucial factor but one of many. Croatia's current policy towards BiH is to give pragmatic support to those leaders who, in diplomatic terms, have problems proving their origins or those who are willing to deny war crimes. Less diplomatically, Croatia's current policy towards BiH is, in fact, HDZ policy towards the HDZ of BiH. These are not European messages and this is not a European direction. Although Croatia has announced that it will place a special emphasis on BiH's EU integration perspective during its presidency. The partial culprit is the pandemic of the coronary virus, but the fact is that the announcement has not been made and that the opportunity for progress has been missed. We must not forget to mention the devastating trends that people with dual citizenship abuse that institution to escape from justice. Although an extradition agreement between Croatia and BiH is signed that we welcome, it is clear and visible that the contract still does not provide a sufficiently good legal framework to prevent fugitives' intentions. Every escape of a person convicted in Croatia in BiH violates the reputation of the Croatian judiciary and the faith of our citizens and citizens in the rule of law. Finally, the Green-Left bloc club wants to make it clear that we oppose the foreign and European ministry's practice that projects aimed at Croats in BiH are treated as projects for international development cooperation. In fact, most projects are narrowly focused on the Croatian community in BiH, which is completely legitimate, but this should not be recorded and shown through the channel of international development cooperation because projects of international development cooperation by definition should be such as to contribute to the development of all citizens and citizens of BiH, not just those of the national interest. For example, investments in university and hospital are such projects, but we wonder why we cover accommodation and living expenses only for teachers from Croatia who participate in the University of Mostar, not teachers who come from other parts of BiH. In other words, we suggest that such funds should not be registered in the future as international development cooperation but as assistance to Croats in BiH or as help to diaspora.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21961	Thank you. The honourable representative Bencic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21962	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers and colleagues today on our parliamentary agenda we have two topics: this debate on the Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH, and the second is a debate on the proposal for an investigative commission on the possibility of Croatian judiciary and investigative authorities to deal with political corruption. And although around this topic they're not connected, it seems they are and they're bound by those three HDZ letters. The only thing provided for the Croatian people about his position in BiH seems to be the preferred position of individual Croats in BiH. So let's first look at who is representative of the HDZ in BiH, Dragan Cicovic. We can actually say one authentic representative of HDZ's policy because it is, firstly, one of the champions in the number of court proceedings against it as a politician. He was tried, arrested, even missing documents on his case on the way from the BiH court to a cantonal court in Sarajevo, but never, of course, was convicted. Although in 2009, he was accused of being in the period of '99. By 2000, he abused his position as federal prime minister and deputy prime minister and finance minister along with Bicacic because they damaged BiH's budget by 3 million, more than 3 million marks, were eventually released. Then, in 2006, Bosnia and Herzegovina's court sentenced Cicovic to a five-year prison sentence for abuse of office. He was also tried for extortion and bribery for the company Lijanovic, but was eventually released again as it stood in the verdict because the prosecution's appeal was untimely. Also, in 2010 in front of a cantonal court in Mostar, he charged himself with six more accused of being in '99. The year abused its position in the process of transferring the majority holding of HPT d.o.o. A bridge worth the other three private companies. Of course, in that case, Covic was innocent. We will also remind of the case of the Sokol Bridge, whose Ćovic was the director of which there is documentation that prisoners of war came to work there for free and forcibly. On Sunday in 2th, Ćovic asked whether war prisoners were working for free in his company, which he then conducted, saying that no one worked for money in the war and that in no way did these persons experience any inconvenience, or that they were treated dishonestly. But dear colleagues and colleagues, your representative in BiH, therefore, admitted that it was about civilians deprived of freedom who worked free of charge in his company for months as slaves. That's your definition of slavery. And then he didn't deny it, he just said no one worked for free in the war. So, it is an authentic representative and president of Bosnia and Herzegovina's HDZ, which is what the HDZ gives the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina as best of themselves. And Cicovic followed his Croatian role models not only in court proceedings, but also in showing great personal wealth. Thus, he built a villa that was estimated at 22m kuna, or 3m euros, on a 2,000m-square property in Mostar. I must admit that even his colleagues in Croatia can't just ensure and achieve this. To build this building that looks about like the three Karington Castles of Dynasty, the main figure of the HDZ in Bosnia and Herzegovina has, be careful now, redirected the flow of the Radobolje River from whose source is powered by most of the city of Mostar. And he built it all on land that was planned as a recreational zone, not a building land. Of course it's a recreational zone, but for Ćovic and friends. Of course, that's not all. His father-in-law managed to acquire a family house in Mostar, an apartment in Zagreb, a 4-story villa in Zaostrog, etc. This same Ćović received the honorary doctorate of the University of Zagreb from Damir Boras, and now you are looking out for what? To strengthen bilateral relations between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, for example, ensuring a safe zone for refugees from the Croatian judiciary. We could interpret it that way if he has the right party card. Maintaining the Croatian identity that is visible in its promotion of the architectural heritage and style of HDZ. Promoting democratic values, I guess, by the number of court proceedings over the corruption affairs he has behind him. Science and cultural heritage in Europe and the world. Here this is, my dear colleagues and colleagues, an example of how HDZ treats Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21963	Thank you very much. Everything you said was not really about the implementation of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH for 2019. But it's on everyone's soul to speak one way or another. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21964	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague injured Article 238. In fact, she did not say a single word about the report, or the Declaration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in fact directed her entire exposure towards Mr Ćicovic, whom he does not have here, and in fact everything she said he was convicted, that he was accused but the article of the Republic of Croatia, or 28, says that no one was convicted, or all of them are innocent until proven guilty in court. This turns out that man has 120 charges, none of them are responsible, and she's been saying all this time what he's done wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21965	Thank you. Well, that's what I warned the esteemed representative about. I'd like to talk about the subject after all. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club takes note of the Government Report, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the implementation of the Declaration on the Position, the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. We did not vote for this Declaration in 2018 for the reasons that we then stated. In these reasons, it has not changed much, but it is good that we have opportunities sometimes, not too often but never to discuss the position of the Croatian people in BiH, or to be more specific about Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because it cannot be talked about the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina not to talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. We from the SDP without complex can talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is best visible to you in the fact that the President of the Republic of this year has decorated the Croatian Defence Council units for participation in the Storm, their contribution because the previous president who was from the HDZ obviously had a complex not to honour them because it might anger political Sarajevo. And HDZ relations and political Sarajevo are complex, both in Croatia's HDZ and Bosnia and Herzegovina's HDZ, because they're always afraid that they're not going under a 2017 ruling on the UZP, so there's little going on, going on the minefield as well as the other sides know their complexes in relation to the Croats in BiH, and then they're going in the same way as in the eggs or minefield. In BiH, it is a bad position for all constituent peoples and like them to say it to others, but Croats as the fewest constitutional people face additional problems which can be about the most aware that they are a minority in the RS entity and that they are a fat minority, and that in the Federation of BiH, the largest minority or smallest constituent people are essentially the same. Who was this declaration meant for? The Croats in BiH, so I guess they better than the Croatian Parliament know what their position is, but how their representatives who were elected to the assembly were looking for that declaration, okay, if that's another help to make them feel better in BiH. The Bosniaks, so they have their hair on their heads that the Croatian Parliament is even discussing BiH. Serbs, so they have their own agenda in which you Croats sometimes use as allies, and Croats in BiH use them as allies, but let's say it's interesting to choose the fourth Dodik MP in the House of Peoples, then the SDA votes for Dodik regardless of what is elected by their votes in Republika Srpska's Assembly. To the international community, so I think that even the international community with sympathy is not looking at what the Republic of Croatia in any form interferes in the matter of BiH, because if it were more written in this report about what our representatives were saying to the international community that we can be honest with, let's be honest with each other about what BiH will look like in the future. Em, the European Court of Human Rights of 9 Judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH appoints three, and we have a high representative who has changed how many laws and now because Russia does not support it, can't exactly account for what he thinks is necessary politically with Dodik, so it is such a situation that the international community is the most called or objectively, it has the greatest power to change something there. Everything else, the three people agreement, okay, only they can't quite agree on it is and, I think that one of the predecessors of Col. Skoro actually described it as different views of BiH and that's why the Dayton Agreement was adopted after the war by the signing and representatives of the international community and all three, and representatives of all three constituent nations, with the presidents of neighbouring countries for two peoples. What's the word in the Dayton Agreement? Quote: ‘Article 5. The BiH presidency consists of three members, one Bosniak, one Croat, each elected directly from the Federation's territory and one Serb who is elected directly from Republika Srpska's territory. The election and duration of the term of office, members of the presidency are elected directly into each entity in brackets so that each voter votes to fill one seat in the presidency in accordance with the electoral law passed by the parliamentary assembly." This is how elections are conducted, we have signed it, and now we object as the Republic of Croatia that this is not legal or legitimate. It's probably not, it's probably a scam, but this is signed, this is how members of the presidency are elected, and that's why Komsic was elected. It is clear to me that the citizens of the Federation of Croatian Nationalities did not vote for Komsic because the people of Republika Srpska cannot vote for either the Croat or the Bosniak or the others only for the Serb, so perhaps by the votes of Bosniaks Mladen Ivanic won Dodik, we will never know in 2010 or '14. when it was. So, the problem was noticed by the European Court of Human Rights and said you must change it, but not in a way that Croats choose Croats, Bosniaks of Bosniaks, and Serbs of the Serbian representative, but that Jews, Roma, Hungarians, Italians, Montenegrins who already live in BiH can be elected, and who will vote for them then. Therefore, the solution is not that we are saying that Croatian representatives will be elected by Croats because this will not happen, that is, against the European Convention on Human Rights and Bosniaks, etc., but whether the presidency is elected in parliament and then voted in a way in the home of the people, probably or that under pressure from the international community, the constitution will change because within BiH, it certainly will not happen because it has not happened in the last 20 and a few years. To be plastic for me as a socialist is a bigger paradox that Bogic Bogic Bojicevic cannot even run for the BiH presidency, so the person I hope will be elected mayor of Sarajevo, who in our history has been remembered by the Croatian president for his vote against the state of emergency in 1991, cannot run for president of BiH, president of the presidency, because he is a Federation Serb. Neither can a Croatian from Dervente run for BiH presidency. Therefore, this is the problem at this point that needs to be resolved, and what we should insist on and help resolve the issue of what the constitutional court not of Croatia but of BiH has brought about representatives in the home of the people. Now this is no longer a question of intervening in the domestic affairs of another country, but of respecting human rights in that country that wants to go into European integration, we can ask as a member of the Council of Europe and as a member of the EU. So let's go that way. As far as the issues of the implementation of the Constitutional Court, legitimacy, etc. are concerned, the question of what we are doing. So, we insist on implementing the BiH Constitutional Court ruling, which is fine, and we ourselves did not implement at least 2 rulings of the Constitutional Court of Croatia, one on the adoption of the Law on Abruption, and the other on the modification of election units. We didn't get through it. So we're not exactly the most legitimate we're calling others not to do it now. As for relations with Croats in BiH during the government led by Zoran Milanovic, who I hope the ministers will enter the 2020 Report because he had several initiatives aimed at Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he also participated in the implementation of this Declaration was also a generous financial aid to the Croatian people in BiH. But we do it without a voter's bill. In fact, I can say it here we don't ask for votes, nor would we give them to you. It's a SDP stance that hasn't changed in the last 20 years. Therefore, the agreement we had with the HDZ in the Constitution in 2010 that the number of representatives from the diaspora were fixed to three is an agreement, this is not what the SDP asked for. The SDP asked to be zero, and HDZ asked to stay at six, so we agreed on about three. If you want to change that, and I see you're always accusing us of reducing something, then say so. As far as we're concerned, we can only change the Constitution for less. Therefore, do not mention it without great need. If you need it for your internal relations with voters and we will use it, but so far, the constitutional arrangement for the diaspora is as it is and we are not asking for it to change. But if it changes, it can only be less. The SDP Club takes note of this Report and will propose such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21967	Thank you very much. Next, we're going to individual debates, and the first one will be the honorary advocates of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. Croatia supports Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and integrity and territorial integrity as states of two entities and three constituent peoples and other citizens. The versatile partnership relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the equality of Croats as one of the three constituent peoples, and the Euro-Atlantic path of Bosnia and Herzegovina are the main aspects of Croatia's approach aimed at improving the situation and improving the lives of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, he has undertaken a number of activities through state bodies to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to improve their position, so I will support this report. With all my heart, I stand for Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, and I think it is very important for the country because reforms will also reflect positively on strengthening democratic institutions, but also on creating assumptions for economic development. The activities of Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament in which I participated contributed to the submission of requests from Bosnia and Herzegovina for EU membership, and in the relevant European Parliament resolutions, we stressed that constitutional reform should be guided by the principles of decentralisation, federalism, subsidiarity and legitimate representation. The decision on what will ultimately appear to be an amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is primarily in the hands of the country's political actors. I therefore call on all those responsible in BiH to show their belonging to the European family by respecting the values the EU believes and on which it is built, to join the Dayton upgrade and ensure the Croatians with rights that belong to them as constituent people that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina would never be second-class citizens again. For all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the most important thing is to have an orderly and functional state that should be their service in which they are equal and where their rights are respected. But Bosnia and Herzegovina is one mother and the other stepmom, and the impression is that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are only a constituent nation on paper. The fundamental rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are being violated, and due to the large eviction caused by the difficult life, in the inability to exercise their own rights, it can be said that the Croatian people have almost disappeared from certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If there were no assistance from the Croatian state, the situation would be much worse, so I would like to give from this place support to the Croatian government in the activities it provides to improve the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also to respond to those who, as on duty critics, attack any assistance Croatia gives to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This assistance is needed because the fundamental human rights of Croats are being violated, including the right to their own home and the dignity of life in their own home. The exiled Croatian population has not returned to its home area to the most, as they are not provided with legal, material assistance and neither physical security resulting in the literal eradication of the Croatian indigenous population from certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such an exodus of a nation and its devoid of the presence of the religious and cultural tradition of that people is measured by the tragedies that occurred in countries such as Syria and Iraq. The Croats must have the opportunity to return to their home. Croatian children must be able to study in Croatian. Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina must have a television programme in their own language. Croatians must be able to choose their own political representatives. Co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina for Croatia is of vital interest to us, but the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are even more important. The only acceptable way to develop Bosnia and Herzegovina is to establish a system in which all nations will be able to exercise all their rights and in which two peoples will not outvote or overpower a nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21969	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rada Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21970	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of yours talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the EU. Right now, the Croats in Bosnia are actually decommissioned in all fields. Do you think if Bosnia and Herzegovina enters the EU, the situation of Croats will change and they will be better off. If I can't protect myself now, do you think the EU will protect them in that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21971	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21972	Thank you very much. Well, the Croats are certainly in a subjugated position, regardless of what should be done as a constituent people with all equal rights, it does not happen in real life. And in this respect, I believe that BiH's integration into the EU can help reforms that need to enable a better economic prosperity, but also the efficiency of the system in BiH. I think only the few people who spoke behind this speaker today know exactly how complex the system is in BiH that leads to complete dysfunction. Also, I think they rarely know that in fact those parts in which the Croats live and where the Croats are also said in power, i.e. representatives of the Croatian people from Sarajevo do not receive almost any financial assistance and are bypassed by all investments. The system that is arranged, and we think we can say that the EU should do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21973	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21974	Thank you. Dear counterpart Petir, it is touching to hear you talk about the situation of Croats in BiH. Do you feel your own responsibility since you worked actively to make Mr. Stjepan Mesic president of the Republic of Croatia. We know his attitude towards the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how badly he affected their position in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you feel your own guilt about that because you supported him, and we know what kind of policy he was leading, and what kind of policy he's still leading here now that he's not president we've taken from him at least this former president's office, which leads to BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21975	Dear Representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21976	Comrade Grmoy, you are in fact degraded by your every step of the way by the function of a parliamentary representative and you show that you neither read the materials nor know what the subject is, but by ad hoc attack on the representatives, spread lies and slanders. I am a responsible person, and as a Croatian representative in the European Parliament, I have submitted a series of amendments to the resolutions on Bosnia and Herzegovina and these amendments have been adopted happily and have given certain results precisely to the Croatian MPs in the European Parliament where they are with me. And here I must say we have shown unity of different policy options which unfortunately cannot be seen here in the Croatian Parliament thanks to you and your colleagues from MOST because you are expanding destruction, you are planting your legs and do not contribute to any constructive proposal, progress neither Croatia nor Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We in the European Parliament have achieved this cooperation and cohesion and joint efforts to move things from a dead end and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21977	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21978	First of all, I would welcome the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the forgotten, alienated people because there was more implementation of the policies of Sarajevo by our presidents, our government than the policies of the Croats, the official policies of Sarajevo, Basharsijska headed by Stjepan Mesic, her advisor, the main PR Mrs Petir and the like who beat the interests of the Croatian people, beat and led to these results that this area is literally empty. This Baškarsija policy, which has been promoted from the PR service and from our colleagues and colleagues, is a disaster for the Croatian people, for you Croatian peoples, my peoples in Herceg-Bosnia, forgotten peoples, knights who first rose from this area in the highest number for the defence of the Croatian state not only of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Croatian Council of Defence but in the first units of Croatian defence forces, there were police, Croatian military, HOS, the first were people from the territory of our Bosnia and Herzegovina from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the whole of our fellow citizens who we must not forget. Policy towards Croatian citizens, i.e. Our constitutional obligation by the respected ministers that you have executed in this debate HDZ has passed the law that only three representatives from the diaspora are here. You're the one who got lost. This was brought by the government of Jadranka Kosor where he was the minister of your colleague who pushed you all along, Mate Granic pushed you, Plenkovic and similar, Granic Mate. So here was Minister of Parliament, your boss was Mr. Jandrokovic, who came out in Wikileaks, said that the Croats would never have a third entity. Is this a struggle for the equality of the Croatian people? Is fighting for the Croatian people I have an obligation to say this because I have spent a year at war with these people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to humanely stop huge Serb aggression and slaughter greater than it was in Srebrenica than Ratko Mladic in the Bihaćka Enclava area. You gave up the Croatian Council of Defense, except for the declarative pre-election purposes. And I repeat, Zoran Milanovic is a more sovereign than you, had at least the courage to honor the Croatian Army's component, which is the Croatian Defence Council this year. You can say whatever you want, that man got not one percent there. But if we're going to talk human or principled, either SDP's or HDZ's that man did more. Stipe Mesic has threatened their advisers, the adversaries who came to power to sit through PR agencies in various ministries because of their interests, not the interest of the Croatian people. Either Josipovic or Jadranka Kosor. More, by his rank, he made one of the general's commanders, Mr. Jelic, an act of honour to the Croatian troops, and sent a message that the Croatian Council of Defence is part of the Croatian defence forces, part of the Croatian Army. And you can give all the replicas of colleagues and colleagues, deny me what your result is. Are you some important project, for example Ravca – Drvenik, which he connected over Vrgorec with the coast and with the hinterland of Herzegovina to have a way out to the sea and to keep our people alive in this area, to deal with the rural economy in Herzegovina. Or, for example, why is the border closing on Bill Brig our denominators who have to go a hundred miles longer to Split, my neighbors. I feel the need to tell Sinj, Livno it's neighbouring, these are the people that we've lived together for centuries. I feel like I'm part of that Corps. I do not share this Corps at all in the Croatians from Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is part of my people, I am part of that area, and I know that these people have been forgotten except the PR mourner for this pay phone from you who brought Basharshi politics to Croatia against the interests of the Croatian people, and especially the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These mothers shed tears for their sons, and there are no more of these sons because they're gone. Your policies were not for you to accept these amendments to MOST in this principle declaration, but, Mrs. Petir, we were the only ones who gave amendments and MOST to this declaration and live our lives and witness co-existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21979	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21980	Dear Representative Bulj, since I did not even get a Croatian public response to the relationship between Croatian authorities, the Croatian government, specifically the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Bošnjakovic, the entire team, as a result of the condemning verdict where Croatia actually ranks as a member of the joint criminal enterprise where six of our Croats are convicted. Please tell me then there was an organized memorial in Lisinski and the government of Mr. Plenkovic was also in the Open, through the media announcing urgent complaints, verdicts. Unfortunately, none of that was done. Give me an answer as to what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21981	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21982	A fellow Sačić, after 15 years of imprisonment in The Hague from the Croatian Council of Defense, no one went from the official authority to look at them or ask them whether you wanted a glass of water, you were imprisoned here in The Hague, you were the commanders of the Croatian Defence Council and the individual Croatian Army, which was unique. No one. You know who left first? Minister Sprlje, first. He asked you if you needed help, whether you needed help, regardless of the serious charges of a criminal enterprise and anything that was to be imposed on the Croatian soldier and the Croatian young state only at the time, marking it as a criminal. No, the Croatian soldier and there is also the Croatian Defence Council with the HOS and the police were the only ones who defended both the Croatian state and Bosnia and Herzegovina from a large Serb occupier and later possibly from aggression, i.e. The aggression committed by the BiH Army on the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21983	Thank you very much. Now, we're gonna take a break for the ventilation, and I'll meet you in 13 and 50 minutes. It's 13,37 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21984	Here's a colleague. We're moving on with our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13.50 HOURS]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21985	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, will now return to me I think, colleagues and fellow MPs. By making the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH in December 2018, the Croatian Parliament once again demonstrated its determination to fulfil its constitutional obligation to guarantee the protection of the interests of Croats in BiH. Although, according to the constitutional framework, the Croats in BiH have been a constituent people over the past decade, we have witnessed decisions that have discriminated against them in relation to the other two constituent nations. The injustice, unfortunately, is still taking place and is best seen through the imposition of a BiH presidency member who, although the official representative of the Croats has not been chosen by the Croatian people's will. It further underlines the fact that things have not changed since the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision, which found the country's electoral legislation to be discriminatory for Croats. This injustice has been ignored by Croatia for too long, and things have not started since the last term of the government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of Andrej Plenkovic over the past four years has managed to put the issue on the agenda of important bilateral meetings with EU heads of state, as well as European institutions from foreign ministers to the European Council. Thanks to government engagement and UN organisation, the inequality of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been recognised as a violation of human rights. I am primarily referring to the periodic report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the UN Human Rights Council since 2019, with which Bosnia and Herzegovina must be harmonised. All those who have ever dealt with foreign affairs are certainly aware of the effort that has been made to raise the issue of electoral legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina after so many years of silence at this level. The Republic of Croatia stresses its full support for Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards the EU's full membership candidate status, which is also a question of the highest interest, and has also been confirmed through the Croatian Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union in the first half of this year. Unfortunately, there is still a lot of work ahead of us, but this report shows that it has not come to an end in the work. The activities continue with equal intensity and in this mandate, commending the engagement of all ministries engaged in the protection of the interests and rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina from economic, educational, cultural to judicial nature. I especially think about the activities of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia through which it is provided support for projects that are important for the preservation and strengthening of Croatian Corps such as schools, hospitals, dorms, homes for older and powerless, infrastructure projects as well as those that allow for the creation of new jobs. A big job has also been done by the ministries of, say, Croatian defenders, and the work of the pension system, family and social policy through the regulation of the status of members of the Croatian Council of Defence, and should also be stressed by the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to ensure equal treatment in the processing of war crimes in which suspects and indictees from the ranks of the Croatian people are also in a more unfavourable position than other nationalities. In addition to all this I have stated this Report I support and hope for a recent report for 2020 and that we will be able to discuss more fully in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21986	We have two replicas, wait. The first is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21987	So, this story of amendments to the Dayton Agreement to the harm of Croats has nothing to do with the election of members of the presidency. A member of the Bureau shall be elected in the same way from the beginning to the present day. '98. It was a similar case with Gradimir Goyer candidate Croatia, which was voted by the Bosniaks but was not enough to re-vote Ante Jelavic at the time. So the Dayton Agreement has been implemented in the same way since '98. Since the first election was held until today as far as the Bureau member is concerned. As far as the House of Peoples is concerned, there has been a change by the international community. Now, the BiH Constitutional Court can make up the majority of three representatives of the international community and two Croats, five against two Bosniaks and two Serbs. And it is not our problem that Bosniaks do not accept that the electoral law does not comply with the constitution, but that the international community does not want to help change because there are a majority in the Constitutional Court of two Croats and three members of the international community. And that is why it is better to address them rather than the Bosniaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21988	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21989	As for the changes, I would agree with you, but in the original, read, here I am sure that you have read. Yes, yes, certainly from the ranks of the Croatian people. And is that actually, do you really think, does anyone think that's the way it is in the source and imagined. So the Croatian people sort of lined up there from their ranks, here we choose, so that's how we choose. No, absolutely no one has ever thought or thought that this way you could ever choose a member of the Croatian people in the Federation Presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21990	Next replica, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21991	Dearly respected here you have tried to explain the role of the Declaration of the very report, which is in fact only declarative, which shows that one of the main objectives that you are seeking to actively advocate Croatia for the necessary reform of the electoral system as the almost most important problem in the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although it is clear that the election of Croatian presidency members has led to a policy of negligentness for Croats and that you are only seeking this issue for the reason of the electoral defeat of Dragan Ćovic. Yes, you are hiding behind the alleged concern, mentioning support for the status of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in fact your goal is quite different. Your goal is to vote Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When you change your attitude and your goal is to improve people's lives and help the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina themselves on their way to Europe, then the situation of the Croats will be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21992	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21993	Dear colleagues, I would really like to say about me and my engagement, I would absolutely not stand for what you said with all due respect. And I'd only ask you once to come with me, so here's the best in middle Bosnia that I didn't say, to come and see what I did here myself. But I don't like to talk about myself, ever. It's not even polite, decent people don't do it. But I'd like you to come with me, and here I'd like you to come with me once and for all, so that you can take a look at why I've been saying this, and with which I actually have an honest feeling for that people, and not just for the voices. I don't care about that at all, I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21994	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Marina Opačak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21995	I'm gonna have to take advantage of the opportunity to hurt the Rules of Procedure. I speak with sincere feelings. I don't have to go around middle Bosnia, live on the border with Bosnia. My whole family, my great friends, my neighbors, they all come from Bosnia. I live there on a daily basis and I know very well what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21996	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. You're free. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Radoje Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21997	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers. It is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me as a representative of the HDZ and I am pleased to be able to discuss us here in the Parliament on the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who, at the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community, voted in the Croatian Parliament. As an agent who comes from 11. I would also like to make it clear that we support this government as one of the three MPs. Now that she's backed up is... I would also support it if it were supported by 106 MPs because I believe it is making efforts and doing what it can to protect the interests of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To those colleagues who went off topic here, I just want to order the mention of President Ćovic, there is not much to be added just to prepare a special team... Because those who know at all the opportunities in BiH that they can believe that the BiH court would have freed President Cicovic that he had any proof. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to refer to reading the constitutional provisions of my colleagues, Bauk, to read them all the way. I will read an article on the protection of vital national interest there is a clear role of the presidency member from the constituent people. The Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling on the Ljubic case should also be taken into account, where it clearly says that the constitutionality and equality are a subversive principle for all levels of government where they are elected. I would now refer to this report on the implementation of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the Rights of the Croats in BiH. It is more than visible from the report that the Croatian Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is making efforts and a series of activities to finance numerous projects related to Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, related to education, health, social assistance to students, scholarships, assistance to people at risk. I use the opportunity to thank them for their efforts with Secretary of State Milos and all the workers who really know the opportunities in BiH. The report also shows that the ministries are making efforts and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia so that this declaration does not remain a dead letter on paper, that it truly comes to life on the ground on Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like, in the coming period, that this Declaration, the report on this Declaration, contains more room for the economy. How important this exchange is economic between Croatia and BiH says that only in 2019 was the trade of over a billion and a half euros, that the surplus of the Republic of Croatia was over 800m euros. I therefore use the opportunity here to invite the Croatian businessmen to invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to recognise the opportunities of business, to have good business in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially investment in those areas where Croats live is helping not only Croats but helping the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would also like to come up with a project, a programme to help young families with more children. Because it really doesn't have to now, as in most of the Balkan peninsula and in Southeast Europe, really seriously. I also want to encourage all of our local communities to cooperate better in order to withdraw as many EU funds as possible. All that the institutions are doing is very important for the Republic of Croatia, but certainly the most important, most necessary, urgent support that Croatia needs in BiH is political support to establish the equality of the Croatian people. This equality is guaranteed by the Washington and Dayton Agreements. Croatia is a signator of these agreements. And I use the opportunity here to thank Minister Radman, the foreign ministry that really makes the effort to feel this support in BiH. I am using the opportunity to thank Prime Minister Plenkovic for his clear attitude, the everyday procedures behind the legitimate demands of Croats for equality. I believe it is in the interest not only of the Croats in BiH but also of the whole of BiH's peoples. It's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Only such BiH is long-term sustainable and stable. And finally, in the hope that the next reports will be even more content for all my colleagues and fellow MPs, I call on us to accept this report and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21998	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She's the first to be respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u21999	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. Here's to inviting Croatian businessmen to come and invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course we know without it that there is no survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia supports the institutions of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but these same institutions do not respect the electoral will of the Croatian people. That's what we've been through. You yourself had a press conference on the subject and you yourself witnessed this election scam that happened. Therefore, without respect for the equality and consistency of all three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina you know better than we who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22000	Thanks for asking. Of course I don't have enough time to talk about all segments where Croats are unequal. So one example is the Central Election Commission only where names that were later appointed to the Central Election Commission are practically drawn up at a session. It is not the Central Commission illegally, however, Croats do not have the strength to challenge it either in the Constitutional Court or in another legislative body. And if that were the case, and this vote count is currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina when, for our incomprehensible reasons, an unknown number of votes received by post simply is not added and we have no idea, we had no possibility for observers of any political party to attend the process. Why is it so likely time will show. We can only make objections to the authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22001	Next replica, distinguished representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22002	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. Here are the statements by Mr. Ali Izetbegovic. Do you remember what the same was said when the Croatian village was leveled at the beginning of the war on cry for help. What you would like to do and to comment on how many colleagues here in the Assembly know even the opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina based on current exchanges. We agree that the Dayton Agreement originally did not provide for one nation to choose two members of the presidency. Mathematical calculations on how many Bosniaks voted for the current Croatian presidency member. And the next question to whom it is currently, which is least appropriate for the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you can do a little bit of what it means for Croats in financial terms, the current situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22003	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22004	So here's the question you've asked so far, I don't think I'll be able to answer everything. As far as anyone is concerned, this situation certainly does not correspond to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they are institutionally unequal. This is reflected in every segment of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If this had been a reflection on everyday life, it also shows how here to look back on the proposal of an envoy to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina the consistency of the people to make it seem in practice, it shows here how the federal government works on a daily basis. When one decision can direct hundreds of millions of marks to one area, and I know if they focus on one area, all other areas are impoverished. Of course, Croatians do not respond to the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22005	The next replica is the esteemed representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22006	... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[/Snadder raider: Please microphone. Okay, here you go.]] A respected colleague of yours rightly stressed the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina that would have a beneficial impact on the rest of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, absolutely. You're from a central Bosnian colleague as far as I know. If you would say something in favour of this economic development which is the Croatian hospital in Novi Bila, as well as how it has affected this economic development where Croats and the rest of the Croats themselves are living in central Bosnia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22007	Well, probably as far as the construction of hospitals is concerned, it is an immeasurable contribution from the Republic of Croatia and the survival of Croats in central Bosnia. But I want to make it clear here that it's not just a hospital for the Croats, that the hospital is being treated today by members of all the peoples. Of course, the most Croats and Bosniaks who live here are the most. As regards possible economic cooperation and assistance of the Republic of Croatia and how it is spent because it is often said here I was the head of the municipality of Kresheva, a small municipality. I call on all MPs to come and check all those projects financed from the Croatian budget, to take with them, if necessary, the Committee on Audit and the representatives of the DORH to make sure that these funds are spent. And I want to point out that these funds have also been spent on the development of an economic zone where today it works somewhere around 300, 400 people in Kreshevo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22008	The last replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22009	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart, you come from Bosnia and Herzegovina and can you tell me how you feel when you know that the Serb in the BiH representation is elected by Serbs, Bosniaks, and Croats are elected by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we Croats will finally have the opportunity to have a representative and to finally feel their own in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22010	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22011	Of course it's one big injustice where we feel here's played, injured, it wasn't the spirit of Dayton or Washington and so unforeseeable international agreements. And I hope, I'm sure we'll get to that point, that we'll build Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state of three equal nations. And, of course, on this road we need persistent assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, all institutions of the Republic of Croatia, of course, all in accordance with international law. And I would like to see here perhaps with such a question about what Mr. Rasdic spoke about the Presidency when Milorad Dodig practically prevented the lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia about the construction of the Peljega Bridge. If he had been a Croatian member of the presidency legitimately elected, it certainly would not have happened. And I want to say that Mr. Dodig did not do it because of the Republic of Croatia, but he did it because he is aware if the Bosniaks rule all the positions that belong to the Croats then similar to what happens to the Croats today will happen to the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22012	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22013	... Since I didn't get an answer from the gentleman in question about the war and the settlement of the village of Straight, it's not our war. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Stain Sanader: Get involved.]] However, I will stick to the topic of today's agenda, because I think it is more useful for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, usually in public performances when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so in this report, the Republic of Croatia begins to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as if it were pre-defended from possible charges of political Sarajevo, mixing Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal affairs. Today's debate shows that some would interfere as if Bosnia and Herzegovina were their own country. The Republic of Croatia is right, has an obligation to care for and care for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina liked it or not. This would be more realistic for me, and this report would start with a sentence of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the priority of Croatian foreign policy for the sake of the Croatian people in it, for the length of borders and security aspects, economic cooperation and the like. All of this, but also part of the Report, is how difficult it is to understand how complex, complicated, politically sensitive it is. Either way, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are grateful to President Plenkovic, the Croatian government for interrupting the silence of Croatian politics whether political courage is to understand relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and these are facts. We are grateful for the arrivals between the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for supporting the political views of legitimate representatives, we are grateful that the issue of internal regulation is today the subject of EU bodies, the Security Council. We are grateful that the amount of funds towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not reduced independently of the difficult situation and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia caused by this pandemic, which gives us a clear message of security, says that the Republic of Croatia understands the importance for the Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina of building a university, a health system, theatres and other cultural, religious and other contents. All of this may not be seen in this report, but who wants and wants to understand and see some of this is too much or perhaps negligible, to some as always space for manipulation. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are one big positive step, encouragement. This kind of policy gives us a sense of security, of faith in survival. We can and must have better economic cooperation, it is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia. There are many unresolved problems mainly in the border areas of the water economy, environmental protection, which burdens our citizens on both sides of the border. There is space, there is need to intensify cross-border cooperation. And this time I stress and ask for the realisation of the Law on the Rights of Members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families are going too slowly. The Declaration mentions the obligations of the HBOR, not in the Report. What's the reason? What are the problems? As far as the work of the Croatian Office outside the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I would like to thank State Secretary Zvonko Milas once again, his team for everything they do but also the way they do it. And let me get this straight. Analyzing the text of the Declaration whose adoption in this House is now visible, there was one big step and this Report, it is evident that there is space, needs to work more intensively to realize the conclusions of the Declaration. But the irrefutable fact is that the arrival of this government has changed the attitude towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina want Bosnia and Herzegovina once again, in which it will be equal, prosperous Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina within Euro-Atlantic integration. And yes, we will, and we have the right to do so as closely as possible with the Republic of Croatia. I appreciate that this BiH is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, I appreciate that this and this policy are a good way to go regardless of the length of the process and therefore absolute support to this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22014	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22015	Dear counterpart, the fact is that problems with the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina exist. But it is also a fact that there is no other state in Europe that invests so much knowledge and desire for BiH to be high on the agenda in EU bodies than the Republic of Croatia does. Also, the fact that the Republic of Croatia has further advocated BiH's possible progress towards candidate country status during its biggest diplomatic challenge to the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Realisation of the full equality of the Croatian people in BiH is an absolute priority and necessary and urgent changes to the electoral law are needed to ensure the equality of three constituent peoples. What I'm interested in listening to your exposure is whether compared to previous governments, it's a significant step in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22016	Dear Representative Barbaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22017	So, my dear colleague, I thank you for asking. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina have adopted the Dayton Agreement,... They were happy with him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already noted through the replicas that we have lost a lot in the period 2000, 2005 with a great change of the Constitution and the Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina always to the harm of the Croatian people. I will repeat, therefore, it is not originally foreseen by Dayton that one nation chooses two representatives as members of the Presidency. Clearly, this has pulled a whole series of other decisions always at the expense of the Croats, and I have already pointed out that the Republic of Croatia was silent at the time, that jokes were being told about us, that there were white stockings, that the Pilateary and handwashing had guided us to solve our problem in Sarajevo. So, as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have clear political views, we will not, we cannot, and we will not give up. We need the support of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22018	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Prkačina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22019	... The minute you wanted to start talking about this topic, it's only five minutes inadmissible for me. [[Specially enabled.]] Otherwise, the debate wasn't bad. It was when 20 of them were added together, one of three, four of quality would be found. I'll take care of the Vulcan, I won't talk too much. I only came out here to comment on two or three discussions. To comment on the first reply to the replica of Mr. Secretary I welcome. And if there's any luck, you and I will meet, and we'll talk about this. I even complimented you in Parliament's hallway saying there's a chance of becoming a good foreign minister because what was before him was a scandal. It is a scandal, especially their relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, just a report and any mention of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have been looking forward to knowing how important the political issue is. On the other hand, knowing how superficial Croatian politics is, insufficient, often dilettant with an honorable exception that Mr. Bulj mentioned on several occasions today and it is about the president of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanović who knows and laughs, there are others who know but few who laugh. So, in this House, I have been thundering Croatian politics for the sake of bad attitude, attitude and behaviour towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, and primarily against Bosniak Muslims. Well, it's time for someone, have we waited 25 years for me to come and call the main culprit for the riot, for the confusion in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, gentlemen, you've been spinning about what Serbs say "like rain around Kragujevac" nobody named. The main culprit, the cause of disorder, unrest and conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is Bosniak politics, I repeat the grandeur's policy. I'll take these, where is he now, and here he is. I'll try to do something in these two minutes. I had this report here that lasted half an hour and cut it to 20 minutes, 10 minutes and so on. But let's analyze, let's go through three peoples, through the policies of three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's go to the first Croatian people. Is there a problem with our third entity? So where were those Croats so energetically, so fiercely, so warriorly looking for a third entity? And circumstances are such that they have the right to seek him. After 25 years of experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially since the appearance of Zeljko Komsic, you have done well, since the appearance of Zeljko Komsic, do not Croats have the right to seek this third entity and that Bosniaks truly want Bosnia and Herzegovina, they would accept this third entity because it is the only condition that Bosnia and Herzegovina remains and survives. She can't survive any other way. However, the third entity to the Croats at this time is only a tactical variant, not a strategic one. For what? Because of the shame that half-written English high officials have given us, and you've also done this well... that you didn't mention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's a lot less bad than the English. ... less bad because he doesn't do evil, because he's afraid to change laws like the arrogant English before he did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when I mentioned the Croats we go to the Serbs, what is the position of the Serbs. I wouldn't want it to turn out that I'm someone who defends and advocates some kind of Serbian policy. But what evil the Serbs were supposed to do to us, they did it. I was sitting with Bishop Komarica here 15 days ago, and he gave me a few books. Besides the other one, 8 hundred Croats were killed in Republika Srpska's space, i.e. a pardon in the space of the Banja Luka diocese of 6 priests, the nun burned, etc. They're not Serbs to bend to wounds. But that Croatian politician who doesn't have one piece of information on one hand, and on the other, means one piece of information that the Serbs wanted on the other hand that we are closer to the Serbs at this point than the Bosniaks. For what reason? The Serbs will, so their stories on one side. They want half of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But because of the violence of high officials, they have a great tactical and strategic position. They are towards their goal, and their aim is to secede. Once understood, they slowly retreat, their goal is difficult, difficult to achieve. But Bosniak is the hardest to achieve, that is because they want complete Bosnia and Herzegovina for themselves, and we need to get rid of these illusions. We need to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22020	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maria Kapulice. Here you go. Stay here to respond to the replica if you want Here you go, Comrade Capula. [[Thank God there's a replica, let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22021	Thank you very much. So, I am pleased that some MPs are opening the topic of competition in showing sovereign positions between President Milanovic and what the Croatian government and the general Croatian state in the executive government is doing for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that's a good way to go. Advocacy for the Croatian people should be competed for, an effort should be made to provide them with support and understanding for the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is much better than competing to challenge their rights and positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and unfortunately there have been such periods. But we can't let our dear colleagues and colleagues forget one thing. Obligation to represent and protect the interests of the Croatian people in BiH have and can in the first place have their legitimately elected representatives and without it no other advocate of their right will have a chance to succeed And that right to choose their own representatives is a key right. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22022	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Prickins.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22023	Dear friend Mario Capula, I have a feeling that you've had more time than I have, so when I speak, it's quick to pass. Between the two of us, we agree on a lot of things, but in one important thing, we disagree. I mean, in politics, I support, and you cheer a little more. Cheerleader, cheerleader. I'm thinking. Even if Zoran Milanovic is, I see where the problem is. If it's welcome from Zoran Milanovic, then let's give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22024	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22025	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Minister. We have before us an article called the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH that will probably last for another hour, two hours while we discuss here. After that, he'll be left in some kind of drawer, he'll never get out again. The question arises how is it that the Republic of Croatia, which is a member of NATO and the European Union and much more developed economically than Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and even I would say that Slovenia cannot protect the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's causing it? That's not what we were talking about today. I would say that in these 20, 30 years, the continuity of politics designed in Croatia, according to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, created HDZ and SDP. HDZ has been marked for the past 20 years by one burden of corruption, nepotism, government failure and I would say Croatia is an unfinished project and this is the key problem of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have created a deep country where 300,000 Croats have moved out of Croatia, 240 000 of our fellow citizens have been completed, 38 000 are born annually and we are a country where young people have no perspective. And now I see that some colleagues on the left laugh happily that I said this about HDZ. But I will tell you also on the left your sin is no less for this position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll remind you that your policy in these areas began in '45. with the destruction of the monument to Ban Jelačić. You brought down the monument Šimi Starčević, the first linguisticist of Croatian, written in Croatian. Then, you gave up Hebrang, you gave up Tudjman even though Tudjman was unquestionably left-handed and communist. But the moment he mentioned the Croatian state, when he bowed to the idea of the Croatian state, you gave it up. You have captured the Croatian people in this large Serbian politics that is still developing today and keeping the Croatian people from emancipating not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also in Croatia. What is it we need in Croatia? We need a new policy, we need European standards, we need a country without corruption, nepotism, crime, we need the democratisation of society and the democratisation of our parties and the financial democratisation of party life. We need entrepreneurs who will be released from the racket of our inspectors. We need a European, not a Balkan Croatia. And now that we get back to what we need, we need a new republic. Why can't the Croatians, or the Croatian state, protect the interests of the Croatian people in BiH? Because we're not credible. Those of our partners we are sitting with in the EU are aware that we have no higher goals, but that we would only want to put in Bosnia and Herzegovina listeners who will also rob the Croatian people as it happens here. The moment we solve the problem of corruption, nepotism, crime, the departure of Croatian young people from Croatia and our completed ones, we will also be able to represent the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By then, they will be prisoners of our incompetence, our strangers, and our wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22026	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22027	Dear fellow MP, I do not agree that the key problem of the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the Republic of Croatia. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina have survived many of our policies, including statements by the president of the state that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the problem of Sarajevo. Therefore, I repeat, the duty and protection of the right of interest of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have and must primarily have their legitimately elected representatives. And that right to have their legitimately elected representatives is crucial in defending their status, interest, position and future. And we can't go anywhere about it, nor can we go below what Ejup Ganic wrote in his book when he said he fully understood Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to discuss the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to ensure that Croatians chose their own representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22028	Thank you. Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22029	There's nothing to add. Let's get away from the Declaration. We have been writing declarations for 30 years, and the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and what is crucial to the Croatian people in Croatia are getting worse and worse. This is due to 30 years of HDZ and SDP rule. What does the declaration mean? What does this pile of paper mean that after two days he'll put himself in a drawer and no one will ever look at it again? We'll be writing a new declaration in a year? Come on, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22030	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22031	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Vrkljan. You spoke here again not for the first time about corruption, brought corruption here in connection with the Croatian Democratic Community. Well, now I'm interested, given your case of taking bribes, which you've gone out of date on the issue of our judiciary, you might as well say that you're a real example of fighting corruption based on the case you have. It would be a good idea before you call us here from the HDZ for the corruption we're sitting here to clean up at your doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22032	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22033	Dear fellow MP, because of such as you, Croatia is located in this position where it is located. Today we talk about corruption after all the verdicts, after all the monitoring. It is as if we did not live in the same country and speak in this way saying that I am afraid of a weak future and a uncertain future for Croatia if such people like you create a Croatian policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22034	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22035	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers. In order to understand the importance and reach of this report, it is necessary to remind the context of the political relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, i.e. the main problem in the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has been mentioned here several times already today, but it has not been mentioned that the component of Dayton and the relationship, the Special Relations Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Dayton that was to guarantee the implementation of Dayton, or guarantee the equal position of Dayton in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not only on the basis of Dayton but also on the basis of the Washington Agreements which were the basis of Dayton. The framework to continue with what was abolished in 2000 with the government of Ivica Racan, i.e. by abolishing the special relations agreement is the Treaty on European Partnership between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH. This again enabled the modernisation, i.e. strengthened the continuity of both Croatian and European policies towards Bosnia and Herzegovina in '91. A year. Let us not forget that Croatia has repeatedly advocated the federal, or confederal model of the constitutional arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that it was the same, that it was the proposals of the International Community, or the European Community, whether it was Kutilierov, Vance-Owenov, the Stoltenberg plan that came from constitutional provisions, even those of the BiH Socialist Constitution that BiH should be territorially regulated by the formation of entities, regardless of what they were called according to the national criteria, with certain corrections. It was the main approach, the main arrangement but also the main problem of BiH precisely because the three national policies in BiH had completely conflicting goals. You know that Serbian national interests were secession, or if not secession or their own entity, Croatian I already said federal or confederal BiH, and then Bosniak and then today is unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's the main problem we're facing today. What Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be reminded of is safe and probably the only country that has not brought its own Constitution either in Parliament, nor in the referendum, but has already been imposed by the International Community. It is precisely because this agreement and agreement are not possible that these three national parties are the focus of responsibility in the international community, i.e. that the International Community is beginning to promote the principle of federalism as a key criterion for solving problems in multinational, key criteria, key values such as resolving and regulating multinational communities, and the assumption is that the issue of freedom is defined as one of the fundamental values by national freedoms. Because there is no national freedom without free people or free people without free people. The idea of federalism is something that today in Europe is increasingly present on a theoretical plan as a criterion that needs to be inauguration, to be held. But we must not idealize this Europe either because it will not consistently implement such an approach from its selfish if you want the reasons of certain countries because it would also mean starting to apply from Spain to Great Britain, I do not know Scotland or any country. In this regard, it should also be serious in assessing what can be done, as Croatia has as much power in international relations as it is strong, or key international players, to accept this in order to impose such a solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to interrupt all relations but to strengthen these relations and communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22036	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Danica Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, truly Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina face difficulties in achieving their rights, i.e. So-called With its kind of institutional violence manifested precisely in preventing their legitimate political representation, as well as other negative social phenomena that are just coming out of this fact. Do you think the survival and prosperity of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be in a worse position without institutional assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22038	Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22039	I mean, the answer is clear that without that help, the situation would be much worse. But the situation is not satisfactory, we can't, we all here de facto agreed that this position is bad and unsatisfactory. But we must also be aware that Croatia needs to mobilise what the International Community is doing to put pressure on Bosnia and Herzegovina to achieve a federal arrangement, otherwise one unitarian policy or hegemonist policy imposed and implemented by Bosniaks will lead to the collapse of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22040	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman was also talking about the federalization model as one of the possible solutions. I can testify here that as a Croatian representative in the European Parliament with several other colleagues here and my colleague Stier was, was also a colleague, Plenkovic and others, an applicant for the amendments adopted in the European Parliament who sought and upgraded Dayton and found a solution that could go according to the model of federalisation and to ensure the equality and consistency of all three peoples. So, if we are talking about Europe, the position of Europe, Europe has listened to what the Croatian representatives in Brussels said when they advocated the rights and empowerment of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what is the solution if Bosnia and Herzegovina's official authorities persistently disobey all of the resolutions and recommendations adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22042	Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22043	The declaration you mention is very well received in both Croatia and Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and very bad by the SDA and their politicians. The question of how it can be realised simply requires an answer in that the European Union is more engaged and other international factors are more committed to accepting these values, and the desire is not now entering into how sincere it is by Bosniak policy to enter the European Union is space or the possibility of forcing them to accept European values and one of the federal arrangements models. By stressing that each state finds its own model, there is no universal solution to the federalization of multinational states.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22044	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative of Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22045	Thank you. Here's Professor Tudjman, as one of the most measured men in this assembly, spoke of the Dayton Agreement and its aspects. Mr. Bauk also said that elections have been held the same way since 1998 so that the current situation has nothing to do with Dayton. Well, this isn't about the implementation of the Dayton Agreement provisions, it's about the exact opposite. Already ahead of the first elections mentioned, and here I have a 1997 document on numerous violations of the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, electoral rules, codes, refusal of numerous objections and deviations from the guaranteed rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for the exercise of these rights, it is not only the rules, codes and agreements that are necessary for their real and operational implementation. The basis of the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the original fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is their state and that it is their historical and natural right, and everything else is politics, hegemony... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22046	Thank you. Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22047	What my colleague Bauk said can be interpreted from a formal point of view, however, this provision is not so read since it is contrary to the spirit even of the Dayton Agreement as it is because it denies the consistency of the people. Therefore, it is necessary, as I said earlier, to find patterns to ensure this equality in practice, and not with some kind of legal smiles to play Croatian people to choose their representatives in key positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially because you have this one argument now that comes in favor of this unitary concept that SDA advocates there. So what do Croats complain about when they have a percentage more ministers than they usually do there? The problem is that Croats should have parity, not percentage representation in BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22048	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Comrade Tudjman, you spoke in your presentation of the idea of federalism. You touched only briefly the Washington Agreement which was actually the first stage of the agreement when a framework agreement was created on the creation of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is still called the Federation. Well, I would have you and that was, of course, the first stage of the deal. What happened was that we don't actually speak at all anymore or mention the Washington Agreement which is actually the Dayton Agreement is the continuation of the Washington Agreement that took place in March 1994 in Washington.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22050	Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22051	Thank you. I guess there's two reasons why there's no more mention of the Washington deal. On the one hand, because it gave up the new special relations that defined the mechanisms to maintain these relations between the Federation and the Republic of Croatia, and on the other, the SDA's charges, the SDA's policy that it is actually an advocate for the Federation's division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you have one paradoxical situation that in Bosnia, in the Federation, anyone who mentions or calls to the Federation is declared an opponent of the Federation or of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, what should be reminded when the Washington Agreement came then the International Community was not that Republika Srpska must be an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Izetbegovic signed that they could be separated from Bosnia and Herzegovina within two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22052	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22053	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So every debate in the Croatian Parliament starts and ends with a basic position, a claim about the need for constitutionality and equality of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not necessarily, but the attitude and claim that this must be so, because the fact is, in fact, a prerequisite for Bosnia and Herzegovina's survival. When we talk about the equality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we say that it can be first of all, but not only, first of all, achieved through fair electoral legislation in a way that representatives of the Croatian people in the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be elected by the majority will of the Croatian people. So it is a basic setting for meeting this equality and constitutionality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And speaking in the spirit of Dayton does not mean, for example, that in the collective presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina there must be one Croat, one Serb, one Bosniak, but that a representative of the Croatian people and not even a Croat should be elected by the majority will of the Croatian people. This is what is trying to challenge when it comes to the election of Komsic as a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on behalf of the Croatian people. Therefore, the legitimate representative of the Croatian people in the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be the person chosen by the majority will of the Croatian people. And there begins and ends any story about who can and how to represent the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Often we are too often turned to the collective presidency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but quietly and I would say even slowly try to do so for a time to the House of People who guarantee vital, retention, preservation of the vital interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the Federation and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So since this failed, it is now trying to majorise, by electoral engineering that part of the MPs of the House of People through the quota of Croatian MPs to include representatives of the Croatian people in the same way as it does in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the need for this preservation of the Croatian right to be represented by their legitimate representatives is one of the most important issues that we must deal with in Croatia as it is also the basis of the Constitution and our obligation and the entire Croatian Corps led by the Croatian National Assembly in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The 13th Government of the Republic of Croatia is best told by the fact that only eight days after we elected the Government in October the first session after the Government in Zagreb was in Sarajevo between the Government, I think it was then the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mr Stier. The first session only eight days after the Croatian Parliament established a new government in 2016 was held in Sarajevo where both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister both made clear what the policy of this Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina would be, in which we advocate its Euro-Atlantic path but above all, with the fundamental principle of respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because when we talk about the violation of that spirit, Dayton is somehow always as if we forget to say that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being violated and that everything that Dayton has written, which he has not written, but it is understood that it is very important that this is exactly the way that the peace agreement is being interpreted in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when we talk about breach of the Dayton Agreement, we generally talk about damage to the Croatian people in doing so we always talk about the violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is best spoken of by Ljubic, who showed him the need for legitimate representation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22054	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22055	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, in this debate, there is always a thesis about respecting the Dayton, or Washington Agreement. We know that Croats have given great pain in preserving borders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that Croats are for a unique Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it seems now that peace has come, that only Croats are those who are in a subordinate position. And when we will finally have the Constitution such that the Croatian man chooses his representative in the executive power of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22056	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22057	I thank my colleague Simičević. So here are the five hours we've been talking about implementing this Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In my opinion, it is a good document that shows in a certain way the desire, attitude, the will of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and expects the Government and the President of the Republic and of all officials, above all, and of the foreign ministers to make these conclusions that we have confirmed to this Declaration permanently persist, clearly because this is our constitutional obligation, that this constitutional obligation, that this constitutionality, the equality of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is already achieved in the next elections. Clearly, on the other hand, there is a tendency for the majority Bosniak people to majorise in all bodies of the Federation, so clearly through the House of Peoples, such majorisation would also happen at the state level, to insist on doing so in order to establish equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22058	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22059	Thank you. I'd agree with Honorable Agent Anto Pracchin if five minutes were short on this subject. It's a small ten, I speak for the club, it's a small hour, it's a small ten hours, but it's good to finally talk about it. I'd only supplement Mr. Bačić a little bit, I wouldn't just call on the spirit of Dayton because the spirit can be fluid, subject to interpretation, the letter is very clear. And the unequivocal proof that members of the House represent the peoples, and that they are not only members of the people, is an item in that same Constitution, Annex 4, which says that in the event of a violation of the vital national interest, a member of the Presidency addresses the House of Peoples in Parliament, that people of Croatia, the Bosniak, Serb Serb, and that then the House of Peoples of the Peoples of that People is in motion in Parliament, this mechanism of protection of vital national interest. So it's clear that he's a representative of the Croats should be. To solve some more of the concerns heard from his colleagues, Glavasevic, we heard that national identities in BiH are not supposed to be primary, etc. But it isn't, reality doesn't suit our wishes and utopias and our political values. Because I would ask and mention that it doesn't have to be all from a national vision, but a rhetorical question would ask what policy is in BiH that is not from a national vision? I will encourage it to be on the 2013 list. 96.3% of BiH residents declared themselves members of one of the three constituent nations as Bosniaks, Croats or Serbs. 3.7% like others if we reject the ethnic minorities of Albanians, Roma, Turks, Montenegrins and others, and not one percent of people have declared themselves in terms of belonging to the country as such constitutional patriotism that they are citizens or Bosnians and Herzegovians, etc. And what is important to point out in this story is that in complex multinational states where the national issue is not resolved that the civil option is always a crime for the nationalism of a more numerous people. That's what we saw in the example of Yugoslavia. Milosevic never mentioned that he is for Greater Serbia. Not as he guards Yugoslavia, but Serbs are the most numerous in Yugoslavia. This is what Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina do today. Therefore, unreflected talk about a civil option in BiH is a sign of either ignorance of the situation or lobbying for the great politicians, the third is missing. I would refer briefly to stories about our allies. So, I believe that Croatian politics has finally become constructive but that it is not done enough. As for our allies, let's go from the United States, we saw in Wikileaks how our foreign ministers are lowly noding the heads of American officials and I doubt anyone has ever advocated the Croats in BiH. The US Embassy in Sarajevo is the organizer of protests in 2014 so-called the social atrocity riots that have basically proved to be the Bosniak Spring because it has not been protested in the territories where most live neither Serbs nor Croats, and at the end of the month when the whole story is over and the tide ends up the last handful of protesters and predators followed by a camera of national television coming to the American Embassy, literally ringing to ask what to do next. Now, that's unfortunately American politics, but I think it's our fault too, because if America is our partner, and it is, then let's talk partnerly. Do something for that people we've hit down there. I doubt that's the kind of conversation that's ever been made that way. Yes, we have a problem with German politics. In 2017, in the preparation of the EU common position for the UN Security Council debate, Croatia added to the document the need to ensure the equality of three constituent peoples. There was a shocking German insistence to erase it. that the constituent nations are not mentioned at all. Watch out, it's a constitutional category. And not a constitutional category of any constitution, but a constitution that is a peace agreement. What does it mean to deny the constitutional people by the foundation of the constitution? Returning to martial law. It's a criminally irresponsible policy, I hope it's a utopian of the SPD that runs German foreign affairs. When we talk about this pseudo-citizen, false civil story, enough to remind ourselves that Benjamin Kallay, 135 years ago, tried the same thing and failed then, while numerous wars and other historical events took place that further strengthened the identities of the three nations in BiH. And instead of looking for a harmonic solution, we swim in utopias. Mr Glavasevic should advocate for the implementation of his values for the third entity. Why? If we had three entities, then we could apply a pure civil principle. All of them are nominated in each entity, three entities are delegated three members of the presidency, the entity government and everything else. So, for that story, let it stand for the third entity. We heard criticism on the HDZ of BiH, yes, I agree with most of it, but then Mrs. Bencic should be strongly advocated for amending the electoral law, because Croats are homogenized about the strongest option and... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22060	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22061	Thank you very much. I see in this debate that you have commented on our colleagues, a special weight has been debated by our fellow general who was also a general and I think that he has said everything here that the great politics is essentially the problem of the Bosnia split that the Croats do not have their own meaning what they belong to is that they are a constructive people, and my colleague Pracchin explained it best. However, when did Croatia essentially give up on you from the Croats? Is that when Jandrokovic, the president of the assembly, said in Wikileaks that he would never be a third entity or when Stjepan Mesic led Barcharsian politics, Sarajevo politics against Croats or when everyone who is currently here, Mr. Grlic, swam along with the politics against Croats, declared only with elections for Croats? Where do you think the key point, where the people of Herzegovina had to accept the fact that they were forgotten?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22062	Dear Representative Rasdic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22063	It is difficult to decide which was the lowest point of political or symbolic. I would only correct you, then Foreign Minister current Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic said that the idea of a third entity stupid and unacceptable to us this is exactly what he told Stewart Jones. I think the bottom was still touched at the moment I cited in 2010 by the Bosniaks for the second time the Komsics chose, for the first time it may not have been known, thought there might be a majority of Croats voting, and then there is a situation in Kalesa living 35 Croats, 33 voted for other Croatian candidates, so potential 2, maybe minors, maybe one came out, Komsic gets 7033 votes. And RS Ambassador Tonci Stanicic boasts in an interview in Liberation that he first congratulated Komsic on the election victory. So can you imagine for the Serbs that someone has imposed a presidency member on the Serbian ambassador to Sarajevo to say that. Well, it would have burned the UN Assembly if it had been done to them. Here, that was the bottom of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22064	The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not know if we understand each other well, I have said about the establishment of the equality of Croats in BiH through an electoral law that will allow for the establishment of the legitimate representation of the Croatian people. And when it comes to a multi-member tripartite presidency, I said, I can now interpret it in a different way, that it is better for the Croats to have a representative from the Bosniak people sitting in the presidency chosen by their majority than the Croats elected by the majority of the Bosniak people. That was my attitude, which I now confirm. Otherwise, when it comes to colleagues Jandrokovic and Wikileaks, that's not what we're talking about. He said the third entity is a matter of internal relations in BiH, not that he said that Croats are stupid to represent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22066	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22067	I have to correct you, but we're not going to dig into that statement right now because I've used it more than once and I've used it, and I've got the document, and I've downloaded it from Wikileaks, so that idea for us is stupid and unacceptable. I agree the Croats can represent anyone, but whom they chose. We had at the time of the porn while he was still parity, let's say the ambassador of them Croatian quota in Japan was Dr. Ben who lives in Mostar, otherwise from Jajca, a man is a black man from Kenya, but he is culturally to say the Croat from BiH and without a problem he was our good fit for that embassy. So Croats can also represent the legitimate ones the Croats chose. Now, there are different, different models are made to ensure that. It could be a Croatian territorial unit that then delegates one member of the presidency, one with the Bosniak majority, one Republika Srpska. One key can then be put to watch the election result for a member of the president, but it must win first place in at least two cantons with the Croatian majority. Which Komsic, of course, and someone who is not voted by the Croats can never. I can make two diplomas of election units.../Speakers speak at the same time, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22068	Thank you, thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22069	Comrade Rasdic, you spoke of the civil state as a cover for the domination of the most numerous people related to BiH. However, it should be recalled that the multinational countries of the 1990s fell apart in Europe precisely because of such a single policy and that 15 national states were then created, Kosovo and Montenegro were later created, and then on the left hand option, it was trumpeted that these were some anachronous ideas of the 19th century. Therefore, what should be understood is that the issue of national freedom and equality is one of the fundamental values, but also that international recognition that relations in international order are simply like physical laws that can be changed, and that this is not so simple, we need the engagement of the international community in order to make this one possible in BiH... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22070	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22071	I agree with everything they say, but Croatia must start acting as a sovereign state. I don't think it's a good thing this is the way Bulgaria blocked Macedonia's candidacy and that reasons don't stand. But there are very good reasons, and everyone would be easily moved about why Croatia should block BiH's European path until the election law changes, i.e. does not return to the Dayton Principles to ensure the equality of the people. We can do it, we can defend it. I'm afraid that never before has any such move taken, and they should be withdrawn because appeal and this exchange at meetings with Komarica or Covic or with any poor thing does not benefit. In BiH, it is not that civil political will is not represented, it is represented at the level of municipalities, counties, the parliament of the Federation of BiH, the parliament of BiH and the Assembly of Republika Srpska, and the bodies to represent national political so as to say the will of the constituent peoples are the homes of the people and the presidency. I think it's a nice ballast that's been roughly broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22072	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22073	You said that national identity is one of the important elements, I agree with that, but we cannot say that it is a key indicator of this, unfortunately, is this emigration in the last few years from Croatia when Croatia left almost 300,000 people, so we have a Croatian state on our own, in the Croatian state the majority people make up ethnic Croats and unfortunately people leave our country again. They're going not to tell the belly after bread, they're going where they'll be better off, where they'll have a better existence for their family, so we can see that it's not a national decree that's still the primary one. The primary means fighting for yourself, for your family in terms of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22074	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22075	It is not primary, but in BiH no other issue can fully come to the agenda with a full political focus, neither economic, legal, anti-corruption issue and everything else until the national issue is resolved. The unresolved national issue is the generator of nationalism. I mentioned, counterpart Bencic criticises Covic and HDZ BiH, for good reason, are incompetent, corrupt, very fragile towards Sarajevo when it comes to defending national interests. Why do Croats vote for them? Well, because they're afraid of voting. A change of electoral law that would guarantee Croats that others would not elect political representatives would automatically lead to the pluralisation of the Croatian political scene because the people in constant fear of voting are spontaneously homogenised about the strongest and most organised option, which is HDZ BiH. So the double interest of the Croats in BiH is to get rid of this electoral law because then finally other things you talked about would come to the agenda, which I agree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22076	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22077	... Is this working? [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Yeah, it's working now. So, in addition to what you said, how then do you even believe that it is in the HDZ's interest that this declaration on political equality is being implemented, if this means that voters will no longer homogenise around the HDZ in BiH and is the result of its non-implementation precisely this background interest? And the second question concerns what you were saying about politics in a report where, according to the EU leaders' talks, it was said in this way about the issue of the equality of Croats in BiH, as opposed to the mention of it when it comes to talks with Covic. How do you comment on this, is it a double policy, one towards the EU institutions, and nominally here we are referred to as different and of course to BiH different?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22078	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22079	In part, any analysis would certainly show that it is collapsing particular interest, being of party interest, being some person, being some financial and economic circles and what is, not only a general national interest, but I would say indeed the human interest of justice and equality of the people in complex states. The fact is, while the situation is like this that whatever BiH's doing, whatever personnel they're putting on get most of the Croats in BiH, I repeat because people are homogenized about the strongest option in fear of voting. As far as Croatia is concerned, there is no more blackmail through EU opening or closing chapters. What Prime Minister Plenkovic mentions when he talks with Komarica and Covic, I am talking about what the report says, the need to change the electoral law, and not mentioning at a meeting with Juncker or the European People's Party, I can only explain by caring about some kind of pluses in general tomorrow's European policy or career, I don't know how to explain it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22080	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic. Do I hear from you, see you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22081	Thank you, Mr. Rainer. Dear counterpart Rasdic, listening to the presentations of individuals in this assembly whose very content and perception of the situation in BiH and the relationship between the Republic of BiH, the evildoers would say would seriously point to the consumption of the well, but I would not personally characterise it that way. Personally, I am more prone to the facts of visible boasting that there is nothing in my background that can be commended and founded. But I'll ask you two things. In your opinion, in which the Republic of Croatia has failed the most in relation to BiH and the other thing you think is the factor of the non-unity of Croats in BiH.../incomprehensible/
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22082	Thank you for not hearing the second question, and I would like to ask my colleague Kujundzic that stay away from the claims he made in the first part of his question yes. [[Intruder: I can repeat it.]] Here, second question, second part of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22083	The question is, what do you think is the factor of the ununity of Croats in BiH, Covic and political syncure or someone third?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22084	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22085	I would say unfortunately because I think pluralism and competition of political Croats in BiH would be good, there is no disagreement. It is pushed from Sarajevo's political circles and some in Croatia to exist as different interests of the Croats of Central Bosnia or Posavina from the Croats of Herzegovina, no. Look at the election results, the same percentage of HDZ BiH gets in both Orasje and Central Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there's no unity about it. The one where the Republic of Croatia's policy has been set up and where my biggest problem with this report is that it wasn't working on an external policy plan. In particular, point 6 is therefore not sent to any letter, nor is it an attempt to hold an organised meeting with the Council for the Implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which would clearly explain the violation of the principle of the constitution of the people. That's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22086	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22087	Dear Mr. Rasdic would like to touch one of the topics that you briefly touched in your presentation. There is one place called Calesia in Tuzla Canton and the population structure is next. So there are 7035 residents, of which 7,000 Bosniaks, 35 Croats. As for the vote, the vote was the following, so 7,000 Bosniaks voted for Mr. Komsic, 2 Croats voted for Mr. Komsic, and 33 Croats voted for the other Croatian candidates. This proves your fact that it is a gentleman who should be declared a persona non grata in Croatian politics. Furthermore, by reading the Bosniak newspapers, I listened and now we see that these similar pressures will therefore work locally, if you have any knowledge and can you comment on this example of how it is reflected in, in general, BiH politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22088	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22089	When Zeljko Komsic was elected the second time by some actors on the Croatian public scene, some of them were also deceased, and not now about names, I led these polemics and live on national television, it cannot be proved that the Bosniaks chose Komsic. This case of Calesi is so gleaming that we don't need to speak any further. As far as these local elections are concerned, we have some problems, we had a protest by the Croats of Skopje who claim that the number of votes that came in the mail that were mostly Croatian. I believe that the Republic of Croatia should give legal aid to the Croats in Skopje in a proportionate manner to establish whether it is not or is not a number of other individual examples on the ground. Here come the Croats from Fojnica, the problem of Bakovici mines and Croatian villages around it who will be employed tomorrow and the rest. So there are a lot of concrete problems in the field where I believe that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia should act much faster and more concretely and help the Croats there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22090	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22091	She called the beautiful president of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the declaration of the position of the Croatian people was adopted on 14. December 2018, in this high house, relying on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all other positive regulations guaranteeing care and protection of the Croatian state for Croats in other countries. The position of Croats in BiH is currently far from the constitutional legal position. The Croats are not looking for anything but what belongs to them and what the other two peoples in BiH have. In its work, Croatia supports the sovereignty, integrity and territorial integrity of BiH. Croatia supports the institutions of all levels of government in BiH, but these same institutions do not respect the electoral will of the Croatian people. So I will repeat what I said in my replica this morning and return to the electoral fraud of the recent local elections where the Croats are, I will, I will only mention here the municipality of Teslic, but there are other municipalities, others cut off for their representatives because the SIP simply stopped counting the ballots arrived by post for which Croatian representatives have proof and will surely seek justice and fight with all possible legal means. Respect for voters is the basis for democracy which BiH must respect in its aspirations for a European path. Without a solution to the Croatian issue, there is certainly no solution to other problems in BiH. The Croatian government and the Prime Minister have, on several occasions, clearly communicated this topic on the equality of Croats in BiH in all EU bodies. Our representatives in the European Parliament certainly use every opportunity to point to the difficult position of Croats. BiH is at the centre of Croatia's foreign policy, in the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament and I personally participated in the adoption of this declaration and then our Croats' eyes in BiH were against this high house where many in their discussions imposed as many times as possible on Croats in BiH. And imagine when the vote came they were neither for, nor against, nor abstentions simply evaporated. In this report for 2019, we see how much activity this government has taken. I'm sure there'll be a lot more in the next report. We must not be tired, we must not give up on the issue that Croats have in BiH, we must not give up on looking for a solution for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22092	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues have already said before me that five minutes is too little that we can analyze the situation in BiH in detail, the position of the Croatian people in BiH, but it is certainly time that we can see and welcome those activities that the government has done, we can say, and the state summit has done in developing relations with BiH as a state where all three constituent nations will be equal, where BiH will also be able to join Croatia in EU and NATO membership. This is not only a question of some humanitarian aid or not just a question of our constitutional obligation, it is definitely a constitutional obligation, but in any case it is an investment in our national security or national security of the Republic of Croatia. But I mentioned the government’s efforts and activities, and even the state summit deliberately expanded the concept because really if we looked at what strategic goals we had met then we would see that before that we knew how to meet two preconditions. One is a political consensus or at least a consensus of the most important, relevant political and social factors, and the other is the recognition of international opportunities, and the ability to reverse international circumstances that were once not in our favor of becoming one. As for this political consensus that we are, for example, When there was a referendum on independence in the defence of the state, but also later on for the EU and NATO on the BiH issue, we have to admit it was gone, it was gone, it was gone in the '90s, it was not later, but it was made and on this point it seems to me that one progress was made. In this debate, although there were different tones, e.g. There were not some statements that were also heard in this house about Croatia as an aggressor to BiH. It also seems to me that we can conclude that in this area of political consensus we are building one position, but it remains on us especially in the Croatian Parliament that obligation to build it because it is important if we want to be successful. As for the recognition of international circumstances, they are indeed changing, for example. one Russia, one Turkey, is not the same today as it was in the '90s or even 2000s, but also Belgrade, which wants to create its own sphere of interest, some call it the Serbian world and of course see BiH in the area of interest. The West, therefore, both the EU and NATO have not given an adequate answer so far. One possible outline of this response was in the European Parliament resolution mentioned earlier in the first 2014, but also later in the '15s and '16s, which highlighted 3 things briefly. Not separatism, but not unitarianism and centralism, and that federal solutions in BiH are on their way to the EU. And that's what the Croatian government and the state summit are working on, and I think it's extremely important that we use this debate to support exactly that kind of policy. It is legitimate to have some different opinions, views and also to give criticism, but I think that on this path and in this direction we must give support to the government and the state summit because it is indeed a form of state policy that is extremely important not only for the position of the Croatian people, of course, but for the whole of BiH, and then, of course, also for the national security of the Republic of Croatia. This federalism is a concept that is well understood in the West, which is used precisely in cases where you have more national or state or state in which you have, for example. like Belgium is different language communities, in any case where there are more identities and so many federal solutions have to be used so that they can have a functional and successful state. In that regard, I think we must all make an effort and support this report once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22094	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I did not experience this debate in the Croatian Parliament, I did not believe that we would be aware of the doctoring of the Croatian people in BiH for which the political party will vote. It is their position, their right to vote whom they will entrust their vote to in BiH. But as the HDZ in BiH is mentioned on several occasions, then I would like to stress in the HDZ general elections it comes out under the Croatian National Assembly's roof institution along with other Croatian sign parties, even more so in the HDZ municipality elections, whenever votes that could be scattered among the Croatian sign political parties lead to the Bosniak party and their victory in the municipality. It only occurs individually when there is no need when it is majorityal, when the very large majority of Croatian people are in a single unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22096	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22097	Thank you, colleague Bacic, for that question, or comment. Indeed, it seems to me that the Croatian National Assembly, if you want one solution and answer, is also a lesson in some mistakes from the past and the division from the past and that it is a good model in which one can simply function where unity is needed, and of course where it will simply be clear that a legitimate representative of the Croatian people will be chosen there is greater competition. All of this points to this fact that electoral law needs to be amended. It is precisely because it makes it possible to make one progress in democratisation of society in BiH, precisely because it allows the national issue to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22098	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22099	You said we must support BiH's entry into the EU, but I do not understand why BiH's entry into the EU is not being used as a means of pressure to achieve the equality of Croats in BiH. Isn't that the real question of the rule of law, not only of our own interest, of the strategic interest of the Croats in BiH but of the rule of law as such, that we have the right, that the Croats have the right to choose our representative as part of the EU, that we should probably be in favour of such rights within the EU, rather than giving Bianca support that means nothing to us if we enter the EU in this state as Croats in BiH. And the second question is how do you comment on the fact that there is no concrete evidence in this report that talks were held with representatives of the European institutions on the equality of Croats in BiH, as opposed to having it in talks with Covic, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22100	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22101	Dear colleagues, therefore, when it came to a trade agreement between BiH and the EU that did not go in favour of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's diplomacy was able to react well, and there were changes that were needed so that the contract would be in line with the interests of BiH, as well as with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. When you asked whether it was in our interest for BiH to join Croatia in EU membership, including NATO membership, I think you would agree that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The issue of blocking negotiations, before you have to have negotiations to block anything, today BiH is not in negotiations with the EU, so I think you've opened one topic that has no subject, there's no such content, you can't block something that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22102	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22103	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the question of identity, we all know that this is a very sensitive issue, we feel it within ourselves, the question of belonging, the question of identifying ourselves. Now when we enter ourselves and feel ourselves and think about it, we find that the question of identity is not at all unequal and that it is usually very difficult to explain, interpret or extract any logical conconsequences in the political debate. What we all feel is that the question of belonging, the question of identification, the question of identity, that it has a large part of us irrationally, what we can't explain to ourselves, regardless of culture, regardless of the training that we may have been doing as artists, but the team before exactly, for that very reason. Now, in this report, you ministers, among other things, count the activities of the Ministry of Culture which are, of course, under your report, and there are 12 international roaming and exchange programmes in BiH, there are performing arts, and I can understand this something because these are my colleagues and colleagues and I am glad to visit and personally I am very often in BiH, and I am glad that we often visit with institutional theatres so independent, but fortunately sometimes in some combinations of international co-production that you and my colleagues have already told this international cooperation, here is what is certainly missing because this way of sending only to our people or that Croatia alone is not a good way to go. What I would like to point out now as a play, as a phenomenon which is surprising to me and which I would like to praise personally, I have not had the opportunity to see it, my colleagues praise it and have reason to praise it if they have given it right now at these last 15 awards and significant awards. At the festival in Brcko, that's the main prize. It is about the presentation of Tanja Miletić Oručević, an identity in which it is like an idiotic identity ring, with all the respect I have previously said for the sense of identity, but when it goes to this dead end, but what I particularly want to stress is that this performance that gets all these great awards that all praises and criticisms and audiences and awards of audiences everywhere, that it is a play that was created in co-productions of the Croatian National Theatre Mostar, you mentioned it, you mentioned it, but in co-production along with the National Theatre in Mostar, which is an anti-natural fornication for all nationalists, chauvinists, ethnicities and for all these policies. However, they have done this together with a study of performing arts from Mostar and I am afraid now, but I should not be afraid if it is so well received by colleagues, it should be emphasized that indeed there are colleagues and Croats and Muslims and Serbs all doing it together, such a play. There, I think it is worth the praise I hope you will not direct the political influence in this sense that the administration of the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar is changing immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22104	Thank you. We have two, stay, stay, please, we have two replicas, one is, the first is the respected representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22105	Although I had no intention of replicating you for other obligations, I have to get out of the hall, so I can't pick up for five minutes on behalf of the club, so I'm going to use the business form here to say something. Of course I support what you said. We have been repeating one narrative all day, which has been present for the second few years in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, and we offer nothing new to approach the problem of representing the constituent peoples in BiH. When Croatia's policy interfered with the party in 2006 when the HDZ of Croatia caused a break-up in BiH in order not to pass the package, a April package of constitutional changes, which was then agreed by Dragan Covic with the legitimate representatives of the other two nations. Then it didn't matter whether legitimate representatives or not, we'll never know that constitutional changes were made at the time whether BiH would solve most of the problems it had today in this political sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22106	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22107	Thank you for this replica, I get that, I can only relate to it so that I think it's really a source of the great problems that exist and that we really can't come up with some federalist in the best way, as you mentioned that policy without the danger of unitarianism and I don't agree that this is necessary because here's an example that I'm going to tell you. I think Jasmina Imamovic Mayor Tuzla, Tuzla was fortunate to have not had that terrible slaughter in the war between her, but man does fantastic things for the citizens and there I don't feel the issue of nationalism, and nationalists have persecuted in Mostar and our colleague Sejo Djulic who founded the Bridge Days of Youth Theatre and Mostar Youth Theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22108	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22109	Representative, here is after an almost all-day debate where we are discussing how BiH should be organised and we are discussing who should be talking to, who should be negotiated with has also come news from the U.S. administration that says this, quote. A new US policy will advocate a single and whole BiH and its Euro-Atlantic perspective, and it is possible, in fact, to foresee significant changes in Dayton, and in the first part to create a new constitution that will strengthen the central authority of the BiH state institution and move towards creating and empowering civil society, which means reducing or limiting entity powers. I'm asking you to pass on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22110	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22111	That's what I heard. This morning, I thank you, thank you, I apologize. If that's what we got that news this morning, this is exactly what's going on, and our people are also some of them were interested in it. Obviously, there's nothing to say that Dayton doesn't work and that it has to change, but what you said was that in the direction of some civil, integrated policy, in no way in the direction of a radical, rigid, nationalist policy that must have been a dead end and that showed us in its worst form right in the war, and that's why both Dayton and it was created as something that cut off the war, but we can't keep moving away from the end of that blind street where the horror continues to threaten and threaten crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22112	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22113	Here's a short one, we've already been through the replicas, and colleague Rasdic detailed the MOST's position and analyzed this report, unfortunately here during this whole debate we didn't get answers to the questions asked by Minister Grlic Radman. I can do it again briefly. It means a question for the government, for the ministry that was made regarding the UN Security Council's reporting, the Steering Council for Peace Implementation and the European institutions on the position of Croats in BiH. So no principle story but we are interested in how much resources the Republic of Croatia has invested here and I think of financial and professional resources for diplomatic activities that we want to enlighten the Croatian issue in BiH to international actors. The second question was whether commitments were made under the long-term Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia concerning microcrediting of family economies, small and medium-sized enterprises in BiH, that is, Articles 53 and 54. The law, so we are asking for more concrete assistance to our Croats in BiH, and we all know if the Croats in BiH are economically strong that they will then be easier to fight for their rights, and I set it up by the minister, so the government's position regarding federalisation of BiH is particularly around 3 entities, and when this declaration was made, you pushed one spin that we weren't for Croats in the BIH because we didn't support the declaration. We didn't support her because she was changed. The original declaration that was on the board was much more concrete then you went under pressure to iron it, to ease it, to make it a matter of principle. We have given concrete amendments concerning the valorisation of the role of the Croatian Council of Defence, so through continued legal assistance. Equality of the rights and obligations of Croatian students from BiH, as well as the provision of electronic and correspondence voting. All of this you refused, all of our amendments and we couldn't have supported at least one of them we would have supported the declaration, but our support for the Croatian people in BiH has been unquestionable throughout this time. Kola Rasdic also mentioned these riots that were in Mostar, but also when the incident took place before the local elections, we visited Stolac, so then Croatian Parliament president Kovač came with us and gave support even though HDZ BiH is in power there. So regardless of this party key, our criticisms that we have towards the political leadership of the Croats in BiH, we have always been with the Croatian people and we will always be. So that's not questionable, but what I expect of you respected ministers to provide concrete answers to these questions that have been asked. And by the end of it, I have a minute to say something about corruption. I'm glad that there's a colleague, Vrkljan, who asked that question to you very specifically. You replied that there is no corruption in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. If you need me to re-deliver the documents, but besides you know it, you must defend yourself because you are all there with your fingers in the jam, all the administrations, although this corruption happened not during this Plenkovic government, but during Milanovic's government you continue to protect that corruption. I don't know for which reason, and the man who exposed it all, you're persecuting. He can't come to work for two years, you've been harassing him through a senior court of law who makes absurd decisions. Here, thank God today, the Administrative Court has annulled that solution, and I expect Damir Sabelak to return to his work soon. We need more such patriotism, such professionalism, because Damir Sabelak was just applying through the institutions to protect our embassies, protect the reputation of our embassies, protect the reputation of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and until we accept it as a normal way of doing this country will not go forward. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22114	We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22115	Dear Representative Grmoy, from distorting my question by colleague Davor Ivo Stier we could read and we can interpret something next. So there is an obvious possibility, or it is likely, that once BiH is a candidate for the EU that we, or that the HDZ government would certainly block it if equality is not achieved, the political equality of the Croats in BiH. Do you think there is any chance of such a thing in mind and how we treated Croatia's interests in relation to Serbia, Serbia and its negotiations with the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22116	Of course there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22117	I can give you a colleague, a respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22118	I'm sorry, of course there's no speech about the Croatian government doing otherwise in this case than it's done so far. The example of Serbia is a very good example. So the decision was made to establish a committee to follow the criteria set out in Chapters 23 and 24, which is a valid government decision, four times a month, four times a year, this commission is to be met, this fellow Stier knows very well. Not one of Oreshkovic's governments met. So they break their valid decision, it's like you're breaking the law, they don't want to withdraw it, and yet they don't meet or follow anything Serbia does. That shows what our diplomacy is doing. I am saddened by my colleague Stier to defend it, we also have our positive episodes, for example. I have to thank the IGP here, but here's where the government came to those and MOST positions from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22119	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Price. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22120	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected foreign ministers, I absolutely agree that we should help Croats in terms of preserving their culture and tradition. The Croats are an indigenous people in BiH, living there not to say since the 7th century, and it is absolutely positive that we support them in this way. Also, I think it is absolutely positive that we have good relations with neighbouring BiH, that is our neighbouring country, that is the country with which we have the longest land border, the country with which we have a major economic exchange. However, in order to have good relations with the neighbouring country, we believe that we must always be careful not to enter into some of BiH's domestic affairs, especially regarding the election law. Of course, each of us can have an opinion, my opinion makes sense that in every country there are citizens, that citizens choose one president not three members of the presidency, but that's my personal position. I don't think it's a good idea for us to get into neighboring countries' internal affairs that way, and I don't think we're dealing with anything, and maybe we're creating more, more problems. I also think that we should support BiH in their entry into the EU, I think it will be big, big plus because after joining the EU that is what Croatia is waiting for, and BiH is following the introduction of the EUR, the Schengen area, so there are no borders, people will travel, work, the economy will work better. What we must always underline, and that is what we must insist on, means that Croats in BiH are a constituent people. Unfortunately, sometimes our laws in Croatia say that Croats in BiH are not a constitutive people, they are being led as a diaspora so that they can vote in the elections, it usually goes in favour of one option in Croatia. Of that, Croats in BiH unfortunately have no use for it, which Croatia unfortunately has no use for. And what is due to what can be born and what unfortunately has been born in recent decades in the elections, animosity, where a good part of the citizens and citizens of Croatia reacted to, if it means voting Croats in BiH in elections in Croatia is creating an animosity, it is really not good for anyone. Also, the policy, which has been led over the past decades, unfortunately has proved, has been mentioned several times today, has not proved good, unfortunately in the past few decades, the number of Croats in BiH has halved. Also, I must say that I absolutely support the preservation of Croatian culture, tradition in neighbouring BiH. Also, I just have to mention that I absolutely support what is stated in the declaration to support the search, that it is meant to provide support in search of missing persons, it is certainly important because of their families and it is important on this human side. What I would point out once again, however, is that if it were my personal opinion that it is not good for us to interfere with BiH's internal affairs, as we do not want others to interfere with Croatia's internal affairs, that we respect our neighbouring BiH as we want others to respect our country of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22121	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, one of the respected representatives of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22122	Comrade Price, you cannot have a personal position on the Constitution of BiH.../incomprehensible/... The Dayton Peace Agreement, because it is not, comes from your personal attitude, but from black to white codified on paper, where it is defined as the state of the three constituent nations of ZAVNOBIH, is still being dragged to this day. So what does it mean to be your personal position or that it should be one president elected by all citizens? Go back to the status quo ante, before Dayton is a war, i.e. three states in the country. BiH is not divided into Dayton, but is scolded in Dayton. So, there were no 3 groups of citizens there, or one group committed genocide in Srebrenica over another group of citizens, either at 2, 3 or 10 crime scenes. So you can't project your political utopias on a very complex, serious and fragile reality of dayton and postdayton BiH. In that sense, I feel that we should be more responsible for what we say in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22123	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22124	Well, that's exactly how thinking might lead to division among people. Let's not go that way. I must also say that simply, you said that the Constitution of BiH, I am sure that the Constitution of BiH does not say that a declaration will be drawn up in a neighbouring country, that in the neighbouring state it will talk about BiH's internal affairs. So let's respect the neighbouring state and let the citizens resolve these relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22125	Dear Representative Rasdic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22126	I was just told that I was causing some divisions in the neighbouring country. No, you do not respect BiH's constitutional arrangement because you deny the constitutionality of the people what is the basis of the BiH Constitution, you do not do it myself. I respect her and respect her constitution, and there's no more respect for any country than respecting her constitutional arrangement, and you're denying it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22127	Representative Rasudic, you are aware that you have actually abused this institution and replicated it, so I am giving you a warning. We have the next replica of the esteemed member of the Skore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Story, your idealistic personal picture of BiH is something that no one can deny you the right. However, you have no right either in historical or legislative terms, and it would be good before you talk about such things that are very sensitive especially to the Croats in BiH that you may perhaps get a little better at what happened in the times behind that no matter how old they are. BiH as it did not fall from Mars today and it is a country where there is a people called Croatia and Croatia have an obligation to take care of it not only on the basis of their Constitution but on the signed documents, and what we do today in the Croatian Parliament is very, very legitimate, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22129	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22130	Here, if I just wanted to answer that I am absolutely alone and mentioned that I respect the constitutionality of the Croatian people several times and that I respect the neighbouring country, I just think that today's debate will not solve any problems, and unfortunately this is a clue to what was going on and the policy that led, unfortunately, to the fact that the number of Croats in the neighbouring country has been nearly halved, I'm afraid that today we are not solving anything like this, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22131	We will now have final, thank you very much, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22132	I will start from what I had already said in the presentation on behalf of the club, if this was a report on the work of the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, if this were a report on humanitarian aid to Croats in BiH, I would say a very good report, I raise my hand to support it. However, this report on the implementation of a declaration on the position of Croats in BiH that has very clear motives, very clear goals and sets very clear tasks primarily outlined in points 5 and 6. What is the point, then, we have seen all the instructions that this sort of sending these experts to BiH and Hungary and Slovakia could put in their report on Croats in BiH these things that were put there, meetings with political church officials from BiH all wonderfully, however, missing key things. First of all, point 6 is internationalising the problem that Croatia as a full member of the EU and NATO can do. The Dayton Peace Agreement Implementation Council had to be contacted, they should be contacted intensively, the three should be written, meetings should be organised, mechanisms and pressures should be seen by Croatia and co-operated with its partners or those who represent themselves as partners and directly work against the interests of Croats in BiH. We saw an example of Germany of what went for a statement to the Security Council. But there's nothing on point 6 that the heart said I'd have a declaration, nothing was done. Point 5 concerning homicide investigations only 1997. 7 returnees were killed in Central Bosnia, why the Croats didn't return to those areas, so here's the answer. Generally, these cases were not resolved until the murder of Jose Leutar, a senior official in Sarajevo. Nothing about it has been done. So we think that this report is except that it comes scandalously late at 12 months is completely empty, that what was done ad hoc seems to me because of the pressure that was done here in the assembly when there was a prime minister, when the question of why the report is still missing. And that it does not meet the requirements and purpose of the declaration. That's why we can't accept this report. We hope that what we heard from the minister and what I could hear yesterday from some other people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is that in 2020 the work was intensified, including contacts with international partners and an indication of violations of the equality of Croats in BiH, that it was indeed so and that the report for 2020, which I hope in a few months we will get there, and not in a year again in December, that it will be better and more content, I will be the first to raise my hand with great satisfaction and press the button to support it. This for 2019 is insufficient and we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22133	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement and will finally speak to the respected representative of Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be polite in this closing statement or in the final speech to refer to several of my predecessors, although I would rather continue with what I wanted. But since my president is here, and the minister will first look back at the two of them. President, in one 4 plus speech, you only lacked a little something to clean the 5th, so when you mention that picture from Dayton where the first president of the Croatian Republic is, Franjo Tudjman, then you should have described the whole picture, because in that picture are Alia Izetbegović, Franjo Tudjman and Slobodan Milosevic. The three sign a peace agreement, which is a detail to pay special attention to, especially in the context of the great stories of historic BiH, the story is a historical joke. So 3 men, 3 leaders, 3 of the most numerous people in the former Yugoslavia because the most numerous were Serbs, so the Croats, so Muslims, shared the country. The advice and young counterpart Prici, Mr. Prica, will get you into it, and then we will join the minister, so the neighbouring state, etc., is thought of the relationship between Croatia and BiH of 200 internationally recognised states, there are no two who have the kind of relationship between BiH and Croatia. A little through, if you don't go through history, Bosnia can't know. In 1463, Bosnia fell under Turkey, and Sarajevo 30 years earlier. Mr. Stier, and Bihac you know when, in 1592, these are the same Muslim Bosniak cities today. Bihac was the capital of Croatia in 1494. Well, that has to be searched and it has to be known. So that's advice to you and you're a little reserved for me, Mr. Minister, although I'm still standing on that you can be a very good foreign minister, but you're a little reserved, it's a neighbouring state. It's an unfinished state, it's a single project, that state was a state like this. After the Berlin Congress, the country was a state until World War I, so for one 35-6 years, the second time the state was for the first Yugoslavia. And what happened through the history of that ridiculous story, and in the Ottoman Empire, and historic Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of Bosnia, it's all very funny to you, even in those some historic moments, were much more visible both Duklja and Travunja than Bosnia, let's just say, come on when we touched that. 925th year of the Split Synod, the Split Assembly, on which the Croatian King Tomislav and Mihajlo Visević, the ruler of the Humm country, mentioned in 925. And the first Bosnian ruler, Ban Boris, mentioned in 1154, believe me, we have to keep all this in mind in the debate with the Bosniaks. So, Mr. Minister, I believe that the two of us will sit down and talk, but I would still look back, on me by the otherwise likable representative Bencic, who a little missed out on the subject of Covic's thieves, I have no idea of defending him, but Covic, but Dodik, but Izetbegovic, who is being accused of kindness, they can be useful and they are, but they are not millimeters away from national politics. They can meet their needs and stand in national positions. So in BiH, it's not a façade problem, it's not a stamping problem, in BiH the problem is based on the static budget. It's a state that needs to be analysed for the end, that's the state someone said well, which is being created. And I don't mind having her created. I would just like to say in the final word, that the Croatian people currently have the worst position in BiH, and they could have the best because we are the most normal and modest. If we want together, we can do it together, if we want to share, but we don't need to be afraid of it, who knows it can and can come to it, we're humble again, we like it all. In a very difficult position are Serbs because they want half of Bosnia and nothing else to come to, and even more difficult or difficult positions are Bosniaks they want the whole of Bosnia and one half-literate, political half-literate European community through their diplomats, and the likes of the United States give them support, and that support may be on their heads before anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22135	Next, the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, when the US news agency was doing research on BiH's victims of war in mid-1996, rightly announced that Croats are the most endangered and tolerated constitutional community in BiH. Today in 2020, the Croatian state by default, and this high home does not give up helping its countrymen in BiH who remain in a difficult position. We support and continue to believe, and when I say it is not just us in HDZ, but all those from other parliamentary parties who feel it and continue to support the Croatian people in BiH, their right to their own language, Croatian schools and education, Croatian history, our right to our faith, our national symbols, our culture, the guarantees of our existence in our country of BiH. We have shown all our concern and we have shown for many years, not since yesterday, we have shown it through the care of the victims of the Homeland War and their families through the permanent resolution of the pensions of the disabled and all their rights. The assistance of the Croatian state when it comes to the victims is a lasting and stable fact that we are proud of. We never at any time put on a pedestal of untouchableness, and on this all witnesses did not put any form of BiH's internal arrangement as a state but the sovereignty and constitutional rights of the Croatian people within any of its internal arrangements. I think that is crucial, focus your attention on the fact that international plans have changed at least 5 different internal arrangements of BiH, so you will see that in this political chaos there is one constant, this constant is that BiH can only exist on the condition of full equality and consistency of all its constituent peoples. What does the Croatian people in BiH expect from Croatia today? First of all, he expects that Zagreb does not go silently over the deviations from their rights guaranteed by Dayton, guaranteed by the constitution, guaranteed by laws at the expense of the Croatian people, convincing them even that it is necessary for BiH to be preserved at all. The Croatian people expect that no new interpretations are given to those norms that have so far protected or should be in the function of protecting their rights on the grounds that it is the only way to create a political system that will be able to function as not so long ago, with the consent of the authorities in the Republic and happening. When it comes to those parts of Parliament's MPs who talk about the real intentions of civil state defenders, such intentions exist, however, I would also like to remind that the international community has long sought in BiH by organising elections each year to create new real political forces and to specialise in the monopoly of national parties. It didn't work out for her. Why? What does that show? Republika Srpska probably has the most parties but this does not mean that Serbs are the most democratic in BiH, I think you agree with that, but that Serbs believe that by creating Republika Srpska, they have resolved their national issue. The Croats have the least parties, although they have the longest democratic tradition. What does that show? That the Croatian people in BiH are still the most endangered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22137	On behalf of the promoter, finally respected Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22138	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here after this last reaction I have waited relatively long for, it was a very interesting debate, and it actually encourages me even more in the direction that we should further represent and strengthen the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The world’s countries do not exist because of some idyllic composition of maintaining the world order, nor are there nations to meet such a need of such countries. But the worst is if countries are created artificially and are not in the interest of the people. So countries exist and should exist because there are nations, and its peoples, its citizens, should be satisfied in such a state that is actually interested in creating all these conditions so that the state itself as such independent, sovereign and all its citizens, the peoples, are content, have fundamental rights that should be realised. This somehow figuratively considering actually going through all these situations from the early 1990s since the disintegration of the former state of creation and complexity in fact Bosnia and Herzegovina as one specific, actually corpus separatum and in the then state, and a multiethnic miniature multicultural that actually hard to understand, understand especially those who were not here and it's hard to know you have some idealistic approaches when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina. But the world order is like that. You can't and some things, you have to understand the situation. When we criticise needlessly, unfairly perhaps democracy either here in Croatia or in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we need and often take the German model. But in Germany, the model is actually very clear. You can't do politics there. If you live in Germany, then you cannot deal with politics if you were a member of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists, etc. These are certain things that are defined. There have been a lot of debates here that I actually welcome, and it seems to me that the topic is good, that we can discuss it, and I think that we actually hit the point where two years ago we proposed the Croatian Democratic Community Declaration and the Report that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs made. The truth within a given time limit. It could have been before if we hadn't been loaded with COVID-19, etc. What in any case this report -- I've heard different comments, okay, thank you for that -- that certainly can't satisfy all those who want it to be ideal. First of all, he can't satisfy this political activism. But it can satisfy all those who respect, resect the nobler's intentions. So it's not complete in terms, so it can always be upgraded, so it says the annual report. Here we spoke, in fact, we filed a report for 2019, but we actually used the assembly to speak much wider. So we've heard a lot of situations or those comments that have been referred to even I'd say about this 2020 that I believe, I promise that it will be even more comprehensive and what you've been asking here for some questions that are, which may or may not have been necessary or insufficiently answered. However, we must bear in mind the fact that this is a living process that takes time, which needs cooperation, which needs a serious approach. There are situations that are being solved in the short term... long term. [[You don't understand.]] But there are some that you can't just influence. Therefore, you cannot bring the document and say these are the solutions. We are fighting, and that is why art policy is possible that we can work with the tool that exists, and above all there must be cooperation with actors in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be stable, functional, equal. So you must have a suitable participant, or associate. Many here have well outlined the situation as it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree with a lot of people. We are not satisfied, no one is actually satisfied in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it a relief for us or not, but the fact is that the Croatian people are the fewest and I agree with the fact that they have always been for a European approach, that from day one they have been agreeing to all plans. So, the only people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who would actually, in fact, always seek federalism. So not unitarianism, not separatism, so hopefully after these elections in Mostar on December 20th, they're breaking, they're actually more than local choices, I expect that they'll be that moment, that turning point that will point us to more strengthening where we're actually going to be, how these elections are going to happen. They are in any case very important to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is clear that the HDZ in Bosnia and Herzegovina is more than a party, because it and I agree with it it is the strongest option, it gathers. It's actually the movement of the moment when you actually have security, equality then actually all the other options are within one party possible. That's a lot easier for a Serbian party, a very easy for a Bosniak party. In Sarajevo, he loses the SDA, so he gets a second stab, so Serbian, etc. The Croatian Democratic Community unfortunately does not have an alternative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is therefore gathering, homogenising the entire Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When you talk about Dragan Covic, you must have Mrs. Bencic, too, you have made a lot of criticism. It's as risky as this if you don't have certain evidence. First, he is the president of the Croatian National Assembly, co-chair of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he is the only now true leader of the political leader of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And indeed the stereotypes that you listed Mr. Barbaric's "white socks" stereotypes are also on some score and ours I would say Croatia doesn't mean her government. He mentioned Professor Tudjman's special relations. We didn't have a consistent policy. When we left special relations or government, the SDP Government 2000. It means it's kind of fenced or distanced from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Giving up on special relations has actually created a new policy and Croats have actually shown themselves in the international community as a nation, like that state that is not really sure what Bosnia and Herzegovina is especially in the light of facts if such words are heard in the Assembly such as Croatia's aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's a lot of difficulty, and then after 25 years, we're looking for solutions, and now we're looking for them in these four years. This year it was, but you'll hear it means next year, I'm saying it can't one report all cover what you're looking for. But here's if whatever you're really looking for you can always suggest to us which items you're interested in that report would actually be acceptable to you, competent and so you can give a vote, accept the report and so on. We're open to you here. Clearly, we as a NATO member and as an EU member can protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Vrkljan. I even read to you today the words I had said at NATO's conference that came to an conclusion under paragraphs NATO and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, when we talk about the Declaration as itself she was just there for the purpose of showing respect for you because you are parliamentary representatives, you are a reflection of Croatian society, you are also those who can contribute greatly within the assembly benches. Not only are you a critic or a corrective one, but you can participate in your and your foreign policies as parliamentary committees as well in bringing attitudes, national attitudes, state views of the Republic of Croatia towards other countries. Here's Mr. Grmoya said a lot. Also, the question of entity, federalization in the end, we can't talk about some models. It is the truth of the matter between Bosnia and Herzegovina within the political issue above all. But the moment the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina tell us they need support, then we are here to express that support. But first of all, they agree on the meaning of the Croats, and here someone said that I think it's Mr. Story that they should be, Mr. Bauk said that now there is no need to agree with the international community. Well, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina need to agree with Bosniaks, of course, to show that they are mature for those decisions, and not in any way, to actually go with a sense of inferiority that others determine our fate. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina but with our help they will have there, so we support all the efforts that the political leaders of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina make for their even better position, and the situation is not me, and that is what you have all actually said, so it is not a good position. We're aware of that. It certainly doesn't leave us indifferent, and I would say the same and answer. It's a shame Mr. Rasputic isn't here about condescending to Pompeii. I would have just said and informed him that on October 2nd, so, if just like that... in a way, before opening the chapter on bilateral relations, we found in fact that Mr. Pompeo has an impressive résumé. [[You don't understand.]] In the first place, he pointed out patriots, so we found that we were both patriots and I said that Croatia is a small country and we are a small nation but we feel so not, that our freedom and independence was built in the blood of Croatian defenders and fighting and the courage of all our people, and then he laughed, and that was all, and then we started to actually talk about everything that we really wanted. And yes, Mr. Rasputic, I handed him a piece of paper, so on one page on the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I prayed for his support. So as far as... Help Croats here make sure we're here all the time. [[You don't understand.]] Mrs. Oreshkovic is not here, but I would remind her now that I will go to Mostar in Bosnia and Herzegovina on Saturday, so if anyone really wants to join, I would love to. And otherwise, as regards Mr. Bulj, there is the right of members of the HVO, and just as a participant of the Homeland War, so I was in the Report and said that this law was passed, which is the right of our strategic framework, which recognises the rights of defence defenders of the Croatian Council as well as Croatian defenders as a whole, and that Ambassador Ercegovac visited the guests. So that's not what's left of me just thinking that Minister Sprlje said, so that's not true. Croatian diplomacy has always been and followed what is happening and the ambassadors have always been the ones who should and had to and of course were with our guests. A lot of things are said the same way. I also heard criticism that Serbia is not enough. I'll tell you that. Either it's been slept over or it hasn't been heard. I'm very proud of the two days I spent in Vojvodina. The truth was that at night in Vukovar on October 15th, 15th, when we had Bishop Antunovic in Subotica. This is what Mr. Škoro knows, who was the General Consul in Pechuh, but in Subotica because he is significant for the Bunjevci Croats, but the second day was the 16th of October I was in Vukovar at the memorial of Blaga Zadar. But in Petrovaradin, their President Vukic handed over the use of the Croatian National Council to the house of Ban Jelačić and then I asked also 3 actually the most important questions even though there are many more. It means reciprocity with regard to representation in the legislative authority, respect for the 2004 Law when it comes to minorities. So Serbs have 3. We also want to match us to all levels of state power both in the Republic, both in the province, local, etc. And what's really important is the question of the missing. In 1869 where I highlighted the importance for our families, in fact for the state, for relations that must be explored, or we need to know what the fate of those missing and of course the compensation of all those campers who were unfairly in five or six camps is. So that was those questions and we'll work on it. Otherwise, relations can only be improved if these questions on the other hand show good will to resolve them. And on these issues, we are determined to do so. So nothing can sway us from any side of it. We know what Croatian interests are. We know how to articulate them properly, and we know where to articulate them. But they also require tactics, and wisdom and diplomacy because it's not all simple. The world is complex. The fact of the world speaks for itself that we are not alone in this world and that there is much to be invested in the strength, wisdom, capacity of human, diplomatic, etc. What I would say even when we talk about various forms of reconstruction is actually that some satisfaction in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that should function. Of course, this Belgian model is also good within the European Union. Outside the European Union you have a magic formula in Switzerland where there is 75% you have a German, German population, 20% you have French 10% or 5% Italian and 0.1% retromanic, but there they are all equal. Therefore, those who do not know or are younger or have not learned enough from history the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been complex ever since and as such, some artificial models cannot be applied. So she must be recognized as such. It is a multicultural, multiethnic community of three peoples. Since the beginning of time, it has been respected since Turkish times, let alone today. The subject of an entity is not a question of a territorial unit, but a question is actually a right, a fundamental right that every individual has. Therefore, the moment the Croats change the electoral law they satisfy then it is relevant how it will be, then the Croats are actually constitutional in the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because you can't, I don't know how it's supposed to be, I guess someone's blocking some space so it's divided into some because all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats are scattered all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and Posavina, both Herzegovina and Central Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So we hope that another agreement will also be realised signed by Izetbegovic and Covic on 17 June this year. So, change of election law. We're working on it actively. We are actively working in terms of seeking the support of the international community. First of all, the European Union, but let me not tell you about it because it is actually a matter of the 2020 Report. We've been talking here since 2019, and I can see that it's really, really being translated into 2020, which is much more content than it is in 2019. Although I say from the beginning there have always been these attempts of the process to in some way internationalise the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which does not satisfy us and leaves us indifferent. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Bauk here. I'd still do it again. I didn't have a chance to react yet, but it is true that it was right in October of the month, because I remember when Izetbegovic said it wasn't his... Therefore, these are things that are not forgotten. [[You don't understand.]] I also did not accidentally say that the reduction in the number of MPs was, at the time, the HDZ was, in some ways, pressured by the SDP that this could not be done because of the European Union, etc. So, it's not, I know that SDP doesn't need MPs. He did, and I said it's zero, because SDP can't do it when he doesn't have an election base because he's not a state-of-the-art party. Therefore, it is quite logical that the SDP does not need a list of evictions, does not need a list of diaspora etc. There's a lot of it anyway, there's just a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of We'll react. We are in contact with our people in Skopje, in Bugojn, anywhere. But first, let them drain those legitimate institutions that are within the country itself, and when they ask for internationalization, when they ask for our help, then we will react. But they know we're with them. They were with me before the election, and I had representatives of the Croats from Skopje. So we work with them. But here, we're not talking about everything. Thank you very much. Time's running fast, and there's a lot to say. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22139	Thank you. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure first. [[You don't understand.]] Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22140	Thank you very much. The minister injured Article 238. Where he said the SDPs were conditioned by the HDZ to pass a law where our diaspora would have three representatives. It's not conditional, it's you who brought it in during the government... And you were on that team with Andrej Plenkovic, Jandrokovic. [[You don't understand.]] You've all brought together to reduce the number of our parliamentary representatives from the diaspora. So HDZ's government. It's true and it's a fact and don't twist it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22141	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. You have a second warning. Let's go to the replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, in this report on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, much of the debate has passed on political issues and the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One part of this report is also dedicated to helping a number of ministries to co-operate with the authorities and institutions of the Croatian people. First of all with the University of Mostar, the University Clinical Centre, with the Croatian National Theatre, with the church of the Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd still add maybe one element that's not shown here. For example, I assume that other counties in Croatia also donate certain funds for individual projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example, Dubrovnik-Neretva County has been providing funds for the reconstruction of a particular facility in Stoc for 6 years each year. On this occasion, I congratulate the head of the municipality, Mr. Stjepan Boskovic, on winning this election in Stoc. Every year, so about 100,000, 110 thousand kunas of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva. I believe that's the case with other counties. But I want to make a special point here since I come from the county, every year we come to the Stolac, we hand it over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22143	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22144	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. We were actually talking about it, but it's hard to know there's a lot of it. We may not have touched everything. But I also mentioned the University of Mostar which is actually very important not only for Mostar. Mr. Mato also spoke of multiculturalism, so the University of Mostar is open to everyone. When I was with the rector a month ago, he told me, so 12 and a half thousand students, you have mainly Croats, but also Bosniaks and Serbs, but 12% are coming from Croatia. It's actually a very important fact. So in Mostar, an open city, where there is no segregation that somehow tries to impute, just one good city of a beautiful city, an open city for all cultures and nations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22145	Second Replicated representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope you give me 14 seconds more. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm glad you adopted my thesis, that nobody is really happy in BiH. And this was a difficult debate, a painful debate, a lot of frustration. But here, you are in power, you must be able to submit criticism, and I hope that you will learn some lessons from this debate for the next report that you will draw up. I don't want to believe in your good intentions and I'm glad when you mention your own personal example. However, I can only tell you that it is not nice when you and your colleagues respond because the debate is also institutional, you do not personally state personal examples as reasons why something is one way or the other. I don't think that's nice, and if we went that way, we'd go very far. I want to give you a report for 2020. It's going to be a better year. We won't support this, but I hope we'll do it next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22147	The Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22148	Thank you very much, Mr. Scoro. I think it was a little bit more personal than that, because you also said that you were also somewhere, so you had some personal touch for something. I believe you haven't actually studied this report enough, because I'm sure you'd be pleased. I know how much we've worked on it and I know how well we've worked on it. And I think that should satisfy it, but if your criteria are that way, then that's fine. We'll certainly keep working. We believe that we are satisfied, and now we will see how this report will pass through the democratic path here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22149	Next replica, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22150	Dear Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've lost it or really wanted to say it during this last address, you said there are happy countries where certain people who participated in the work of party organisations, and you said, in the words of communists, that their work and participation in political life are forbidden and that they are happy countries. So I'm wondering if it's some personal attitude of yours or if it's some kind of new wind in the HDZ because it's the first time that a senior HDZ official has said one such sentence. I'd be very grateful if you could explain it to me, and otherwise I'm very supportive of you if you really meant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22151	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22152	Thank you very much, Vice President. I actually referred when Mr. Matula had his own exposure. So Germany, which was two, is actually talking about East Germany that actually had one hard, rigorous communism. I can't say ours wasn't like that, but I can always compare. So I'm talking about Germany as one example, I didn't say something personal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22153	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22154	Thank you. Mr. Minister, part of the MPs said this is a camel report because it does not see what attitudes are, or what attitudes the government has represented in negotiations with international actors. As head of the Croatian delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I was present and took part in the talks when the top secret, Mr Stoltenberg was here having talks with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and I saw then that at one meeting and another held positions that are equally intense with the same arguments regarding the position of Croats and BiH's problem. However, what is missing and which should be warned that beyond democratic practice, diplomatic relations and diplomatic communication is an argument to what was used in closed meetings Such a thing can be used on committees when people have a certificate to hear it, not at a plenary session. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] This should therefore warn the representatives of such practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22155	The Minister's answer. Here you go. Oh, no? Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22156	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here we have heard a lot after a few hours of debate. Some of the debates may agree, some may not. But what I will never agree with is that this is a interference in BiH's internal affairs. On the contrary, Croatia is obliged to promote the implementation of the Constitution in BiH. We must not be tired or give up looking for a solution when it comes to our Croatian people in BiH, however many critics there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22157	Thank you very much. You may not have understood me well. So we still see BiH as a whole, sovereign independent country but we interfere at that point, so if the position of the Croatian people is compromised, because it is actually the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia and as co-signatures of the Dayton-Paris Agreement. But we welcome everything agreed by the political leadership of the Croatian people in BiH, because they know best in Bosnia and Herzegovina what their interest is and they only have the support of the Republic of Croatia. But we can't stand by here if their existence, position and existence are at all a threat if we can't be indifferent. Therefore, we have this tool, we have this instrument, and we need to react at an appropriate level in the International Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22158	The next replica is the esteemed representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, our long debate today clearly shows that the interest of the Croatian Parliament for the fate of the Croatian people in BiH is great and that is good and I welcome it absolutely. I think we all agree that I welcome that. However, today we have heard so many things that have absolutely nothing to do with your report. For example, questions have also been raised that have not come at all. Let's just say why don't we block BiH? And BiH has not yet opened negotiations with the EU at all. A lot is said today absolutely where there are no touch points with this topic. However, I only want to ask you one question. What would you have in this report today to submit and say that the government of Andrej Plenkovic has not done so much in the former and current government and asked and finally asked this question on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22160	The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bushic. That's right, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, means the members of the government and we all have this engagement he's never actually seen before. So our performance in the International Community in front of those bodies, the organizations we're members of. We're actually feeling this progress for the first time in four years right now. Because so far it's been in previous governments quite restrained, I'd even say shy. But we are now more globally visible, we have an ally, there are those who understand the situation in BiH. Because there were many countries that are indifferent or usually rely on important countries that are generators of the world process, so they don't really know what the situation is like in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a lot to discover, explain, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22162	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22163	Thank you. Well, here's the respected minister after you said you were not fit that I spoke critically about Dragan Ćovic as the president of HDZ and because he is a representative of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the face of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to say that he really is by no means the face of the average Croat in BiH. Because the average Croat in Bosnia and Herzegovina certainly has no estate of 2,000 squares in the elite part of Mostar, there is no safe house worth 22 million kuna, certainly has not changed the flow of the river to go over its property and to build this huge property, nor can their girls with mining pensions have quads in Zaostrog on the sea. So, tell me if it is normal for you as HDZ to support that Dragan Ćovic is a person who has all these properties that we know he could not have gained by public function and money for public office, that he is a representative of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that normal for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22164	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mrs. Bencic, but believe me, I'm not a tax surgeon to deal with, nor is that my profession, nor do I really know what Mr. Ćovic has. But what is important is that he is a legitimate representative of the Croatian people and that as president of the Croatian National Assembly, co-chair of the House of Peoples, president of the Croatian Democratic Union. Now about 20 municipalities have their mayors, Commissioner. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community is the strongest option in BiH and a guarantee of stability. So they reflect the interests of the Croatian people in BiH HDZ. And I don't see any other partner right now. Mr. Ćovic is our partner and we are talking to him and he is authentic in fact. Now there's no such thing as a... Excuse me, can I finish? [[You can't hear it.]] I'm sorry, I've got eight seconds, seven seconds. So, Mr. Ćovic is a representative of the Croats in BiH, he is legitimately elected and president of the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22165	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're done with the replicas. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I now declare a break until 5:00. It's 4:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22167	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 1646 HOURS]] Point two today. - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee to determine interference, disabling or other illicit influences on independent investigations (including the stage of reconnaissance) and the processing of corruption cases, organised and economic crime - Proposers of 40 MPs in the Croatian Parliament are proposing 40 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. First, the representatives of the proposal will speak and explain the proposal. Three MPs and two MPs and one representative of his colleagues, Grmoja, colleagues Grbin and colleagues Bencic, so I would like to ask my colleague, Grumo, to take the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22168	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this year we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Croatia. During these 30 years, Croatia has lived through many beautiful but difficult days. The first year of our statehood marked the heroic struggle of the entire Croatian people to defend our country and preserve itself from great Serb aggression. After the war victory, many in Croatia soon realized that all the ideals for which the people died, suffered war destruction and poverty did not come true. Because while some fought for Croatia, others stole it. The failure to deal with crime and corruption from the first years of our country has opened the space for new but many old communist elites to survive at the top of the food chain. The problems with corruption that were obvious were regularly swept under the carpet, constantly from a new so-called new one. Strategic state goals and constantly fooling ourselves that when we reach them, we will, by some miracle, become a regulated state in which the rule of law is respected, in which the judiciary is effective and independent and where criminals are eventually in prison. The people were fed optimism especially before entering the European Union. The nominal state has embarked on a great deal of crime and corruption. A large number of high profile cases have been initiated. In reality, the corrupt octopus headed at the top of the political pyramid waited for surveillance mechanisms that created political pressure for Croatia to deal with corruption and organised crime to disappear as it entered the EU. Very soon after joining the EU, and even a little earlier, it began with the targeted and organised decommissioning of the anti-corruption system. Take only the Criminal Procedure Act, which should have been the basic legislative instrument for an effective fight against corruption. This law, in its time of validity, has been changed about 10 years just as many times. This created a legal disorder in the beginning that allowed for the difficulties of criminal proceedings and their constant return to the beginning. Although it may seem to you that so far I have talked about our history, the facts that have been presented give context and ambience from which the recent Janaf affair, which was a drop that spilled the glass and encouraged the parliamentary opposition to perform unitedly regardless of our apparent differences and requested the establishment of this investigation committee. It is important to see from this the context of the Janaf affair, which shows that a whole series of institutions have failed, that some of these institutions have obviously closed their eyes to someone's political order, while others have been kicked out of the corruption control and prevention system through poor legislative arrangements. I'll remind you colleagues and colleagues that a few months ago, the chief state auditor here in the Parliament confirmed that the state audit had not been in Janaf for six years. In practice, during the entire incriminating period of this affair without a state audit, there was no way to determine irregularities in public procurement, because let's not forget the Public Procurement Act does not apply to the public procurement carried out by Janaf, so no one can complain about their procurement procedures, and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures cannot theoretically control what is happening there because there is simply no legal jurisdiction. Therefore, during the period when suspicious activities took place, there is no minimum state control over public procurement in Yanaf. One supervisory authority has been disabled by law, and the other state body, although it has authority for some reason for six years, does not enter Janaf. Not to mention the IRS that sleeps in the ears in front of which you can pass with a tractor full of cash without anyone asking you where you get that money. Tax gauze our caterers, our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen due to 20 kuna surpluses in the cash register, our little people, and some tractors and loaded trucks of steam without any control. I wonder why that is. We're from the opposition, and the public wants to know why. Only colleagues in the majority think it's none of their business, they wouldn't change anything. Let's keep it all the way back to some new affair. After all, they are well aware of that people’s “better to have a hundred affairs than just one. ” One affair marks you, and one hundred affairs make the forest of which you no longer see the tree. We've already heard all sorts of arguments from the majority against this commission. We're throwing it out of everything. We in MOST throw them away as unsuspecting, misleading, cynical and false. Since we've been involved in national politics, we've heard the same arguments against every investigation committee. Most of the time, they're telling us that the investigation committee would interfere with the investigation. Now they're telling us that we want to run a local election campaign through the Investigative Commission as if they'd agreed to an investigation committee in June of the month. So then you'd like to raise your hands for him. Here we go. We'll test most of it then. I'm waiting to hear from my colleague Pupovac at some point, and I don't see him here to explain that this is not the time for a commission, but that some time will come. That's what he said about the Agrokor Committee. I guess the time will come when all the actors of this affair die. That would be acceptable to them. We all know that Plenkovic has a fetish on these committees for history, and as a highlight of the argument against the commission, a colleague will come or maybe even pull a rabbit out of Vladimir Seks' hat, so that from a historical perspective, it seems to us that no investigation committee has ever established anything. Of course, all these wise men will not tell you that they have made a fine contribution to the work of the Research Commissions being sabotaged. It's always the same story, only actors change a little bit. After all, when we add everything together and subtract, I will only invite those of you who still hold on to honesty, truth and justice to raise your hands high in the air for this decision and thus show that there are people here in the Croatian Parliament who will not be silent about the robbery, crime and corruption. And that will be our strongest message at the end of this day and at the end of this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22169	He'll continue his colleague, Grbin. I'm just asking you to delete the pay phone first. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22170	Thank you, Mr. President. They say it's not the time for this investigation committee, every time they apologize. Sometimes it's not the time because other investigations take place, sometimes it's not the time because it's in the state of crisis. And I will try to show you an example of a serious, orderly country as its Parliament and its state authorities react when a scandal arises. In particular, when the so-called so-called event took place in Germany. Wirecard's nearly two billion-euro scandal is linked to money laundering suspected of being involved in one way or another and the highest peak of Germany by the Prime Minister through the finance minister and beyond. In this Germany, who suggested the establishment of an investigative commission? Of course the opposition, an opposition consisting of parties that are not necessarily ideologically related. But respected colleagues and colleagues of corruption have no ideology. In corruption, either you're corrupt or you're not. You're either a Democrats and you're fighting corruption or you're not. There is no third view of this reality, of this cancer that destroys Croatian tissue. In that Germany, the opposition proposed the establishment of an investigative commission, and the ruling not to prevent it, while ruling in the work of the Research Commission are participating. And it doesn't matter what the elections come in that Germany and not local, but parliamentary, because Germany is a democratic country that wants to clear up its scandals. And just to pull the parallel with what is being ruled in Croatia today. I'll read you a few items that represent the task of an investigative commission established in the German Bundestag. So let's take the turn. To determine whether the federal government or federal agencies have tried to influence the media coverage of the Wirecard scandal. Therefore, the Commission of Investigation should see if there was any cover-up in the operation of the federal authorities. In Germany, Parliament is allowed to do so, and its satellites do not allow it in Croatia. Let's move on. Were there any contacts between national security and judicial authorities and the media? So they're obliged to investigate whether there was a leak. In Germany it is laughable, however it is desirable to prevent this leak of information in the future. In Croatia HDZ and its satellites don't give it away. Or when we're on our way, the next task was whether there was pressure from the federal government to carry out certain supervisory procedures in a way that would make it difficult to conduct criminal proceedings and concealing criminal offences. So, concealment and influence on independent bodies. And one more time. In Germany, however, it is desirable, in Croatia HDZ and its satellites want to prevent it. But not just that. They want to prevent the work of an investigative committee that should be tasked with answering the question of how to prevent leaks from happening in the future. And esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we are all witnessing that the leaks are here, that investigations are penetrating and that the results of these investigations are being reported to those who are suspected. So in the media, we're hearing about how the first suspect in one big affair got a tip, got a cell phone, and threw it into the Sava. Imagine if the divers hadn't found that cell phone, imagine which direction this criminal procedure would have taken and how much protection they would have been. Luckily, they didn't make it here. But respected colleagues and colleagues, we can't rely on luck. If we really want to fight corruption, and hopefully we want to be left, be right, be liberal, be Social Democrats or Democrats if we really want to fight corruption, then in this fight we must all be together and we must be ready together to condemn every one of those regardless of which political parties come from who is involved in these actions. Here there is a common ground in the fight against corruption, in the fight against organised crime, in the fight for a better Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's patriotism, not busting into the chest or waving flags. Patriotism is a fight for a better, unsullied, just Croatian country of equality. This investigative committee should have gone in the direction of creating such a Croatia. Unfortunately for what we had the opportunity to read from the government's report because I don't see a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia here, so we won't be able to hear what the Government's position is. And from what we've heard from colleagues and colleagues from HDZ about such unity, there's still no room for such patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22171	We will now be addressed by our colleague Bencic as the third proposer of this proposal. Thank you and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22172	Thank you, Mr. President. So after we announced the launch of the initiative for this Committee, Prime Minister Plenkovic announced firstly that, of course, the HDZ would support such an investigative committee, that after he had read the decision and when he saw that the commission wanted to deal with systemic shortcomings in the fight against corruption and in the investigative phase, and in the phase of the court procedure and that the investigation committee would use all the tools that the law and the Constitution gave them that they could really come up with this information not to be a show for the public, but to explore in detail everything that has been bothering the citizens and all of us for 30 years, then he said that the commission would not be established and that HDZ would not support it. And what are the arguments of the HDZ why the Committee refuses? First, the prime minister said the commission's investigation was set too wide. First of all, the commission has a very clear focus, which is described in the target, and it is a study of the impact of policy on investigations and judiciary and the leak of information from the investigation. You've heard from a colleague of the coat of arms that it's also the subject of an investigative commission that currently exists in the German Bundestag. Furthermore, the law says that an investigative commission could be established must have a public interest. The Commission decision, and in accordance with both the law and the Constitution, sets out the constitutional principles and values of which those of Chapter 3 and, of course, the principles of the Constitution itself, which are the values of the rule of law and equality before the law. It's the very principles that have been violated in every corruption case that doesn't end with a judicial epilogue. We have to ask ourselves, is it in the public interest for citizens to get information on why so many political corruption procedures do not have a judicial epilogue? Why have they been going on for decades? Why are the charges of SCOCK being dropped? And why are there no more serious sanctions? Is it in the public interest for citizens to know whether there is direct or indirect political pressure on the authorities of the investigation in political corruption affairs? Is it in the public interest to detect these leak points that allow criminals to escape, avoid prosecution or destroy evidence? Is that in the public interest? Is it in the public interest that citizens find out whether and why it is possible for people with serious security risks to become directors of strategic companies, become judges, become state lawyers? We believe that there is a public interest for this, and if you ask all four or how many millions of citizens are left in this country, everyone will confirm that, yes, it is in the public interest to investigate. The second argument was therefore that such an investigation raises the question of the independence of the judiciary because it is provided for in the decision that state lawyers and judges and those who have performed those duties in the past can be called before the Commission itself. If so, if it were to violate the independence of the judiciary, then the Assembly should not pass laws governing courts and judicial authority, nor should the chief state attorney or Supreme Court president present a report on their work, or on the state of the court's power to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Commission itself aims to explore the way the system works and the weak points of the system, not an individual case which is now subject to judicial proceedings. So it's completely consistent with what's in the law. Furthermore, according to the European Parliament's report on the work of investigative committees in the Member States of the European Union, it is said that in the vast majority of countries, and among other things, Croatia also states that judicial officials can be called before the investigative committees. So there is no point in rejecting the commission because it is simply not true. Therefore, judicial officials can be called before the investigative committees. Furthermore, the Prime Minister said the institutions are functioning so that the matter can be resolved within the parliamentary committees. Let's get that argument checked out. How can it be resolved within the parliamentary committees when the parliamentary committees do not have the power that the investigating committee has, and that is that anyone who is invited to testify before the investigating committee, that anyone from whom information or documentation is requested must give it under the threat of punishment and only an investigative commission can do so. It's not the parliamentary committees. But let's get back to that argument. If so, how can the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure or the Parliamentary Committee on Justice handle this? So what haven't you solved? So what did you do? For 30 years, you have these parliamentary committees here and you could have solved it, you say it can be solved within them, so why didn't you solve it, because there was probably no political will. What really hurts Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ is that the investigative commission would deal with these systemic shortcomings in the fight against corruption and organised crime and that it would then come out that it was HDZ that created and maintained a system that is weak and unresistant to political influences and that we cannot solve any major corruption affair to the end. That is precisely why, although the prime minister announced that he would approve the commission, after reading the decision he had taken to the tail and banned his representatives from voting the commission. From all that, we can only conclude that HDZ is finally afraid. You are afraid that an investigative committee could answer questions that have plagued all citizens for years. Why don't we have a conviction for corruption? Why is it that after billions stolen, we don't have millions of people to blame, and why not serve long-term prison sentences, but in the worst case scenario, a goule of potatoes for a year? Why do citizens get fined if they didn't pay the electricity bill in time or if they parked wrongly, and the team that takes millions and considers itself an elite meets in closed lobbying circles, closed clubs and hides money in other people's garages and apartments. All those thousands of why we could get answers. We could get at least some answers that would tell citizens why we haven't been able to solve large corruption affairs for years. But dear citizens of HDZ won't let you, they won't, because they're afraid, and they're afraid because they finally have an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22173	Thank you very much. You've come to an end. We now have replicas, i.e. one is only a replica for a colleague of the Grmoi, Representative Bulj. Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22174	A fellow Grmoy tells the people what the HDZ doesn't want most, they don't want an independent investigative commission of MPs who they chose to follow independent bodies, and we see that the people see, so it's not a slip that in a lockdown bank, an arch in Slovenia at Club 9 discussing public procurement with a money counter, sharing that money, we're not looking for anything special. We are not looking for anything special, we are aware that this judiciary has been conspired by Vladimir Seks according to his best man measures, but the people must know and speak loudly to him that he does not want HDZ, the SDSS headed by Milorad Pupovac, and the majority who do not want the people's representatives whom the people choose to debate on the committee on the impact on independent bodies. And it's embarrassing from most and from the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22175	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22176	Dear counterpart Bulj, I defended this proposal from the opposition on the Justice Committee this morning, not a single counterargument by the government's representatives, nor the opposition MPs, here was counterpart Jaksic from the SDP, who can testify that this is the case, and here is interesting neither today nor any replica except you for my presentation. It is obvious that the argument or counterargumentation of hollows as I have said, that justifications are cynical and that there is no reason to be against the establishment of an investigative committee except that counterpart Bačić, fellow Boric and others have been instructed not to be allowed to do anything about our independent, allegedly independent institutions of the brush. So, there's no investigation committee and let's do this to get through now while this bastard is a crisis. All points will load these two weeks which are problematic for the ruling and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22177	Thank you very much. Please clear the pay phone so we can continue. Now there are replicas for a colleague of the coat of arms, there are four of them. The first one's a colleague of Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22178	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, your explanation along with Mr. Grmoi is one of the most bizarre events in the assembly lately. Namely, your SDP vice president, Mr. Ranko Ostojic, has sued Mr. Grumo for falsely slandering him and accusing him of being Deputy Prime Minister of affecting the bodies of the persecution to oversee Mr. Petrov. So I ask you first to discuss this circumstance and that event within the opposition. Is it true that the SDP government, or Minister Ostojic, has accused Mr. Grmoj of affecting the bodies of the persecution? So if that's what it means that we are, here we are witnessing this one influence of politics, and at the same time Mr. Grmoya has to say who broke through those measures within the system that he finds out that politics has affected the bodies of persecution. Mr. Grbin and the longest time begins with the first step, it would be good to have the opposition take that first step make by itself and determine whether the SDP government has really affected [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] the bodies of persecution. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22179	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22180	If Article 238 had been injured, I would have asked my colleague Bačić not to be ashamed. Do not be ashamed we have given our hand to everyone to see whether HDZ has affected independent bodies, whether it is SDP, but who is the influence and that it is no longer happening. Well, I don't agree with my SDP colleagues about everything. Well, we've given you our hand, but the problem is that you realize that everything is against you because you're a guilty man. always feels guilty. [[Thank you very much.]] And that's why you're feeling Blame 'cause you were wearing black bags. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22181	You get a warning, you get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. This is your second warning today. Is there a colleague named Bull on the phone? Yeah. You have so far two warnings from fellow Bulls, please take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22182	Here's the thing, I'd just say after this historic presentation of Mr. Branko Bačić, I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22183	See, there's a Rules of Procedure that makes sense. Now let's move on. Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms, a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22184	Thank you, Mr. President. The specific facts of the case you've been talking about, I don't know, and I can't know them because there's no proper court case being conducted, but if you really wanted to know them as you claim in your replica, then you would agree to the establishment of an investigative committee. Because they have a majority in the investigating committee, and there is no time limit in the proposal prepared by the opposition. And no affair from the work of this investigation committee should be ruled out. As I said in the fight against corruption, there should be no left, no right, no center. In the fight against corruption, we only have those who fight corruption and who are corrupt. By refusing to establish this Commission of Investigation, you place your colleague Bačić in these others – corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22185	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22186	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms to you. But why didn't I want to lift Mr. Grumoja's line, because the debate was a mess to him. And as for his hands and certified statements in the public notebook, we know how much it's worth when MOST hands out, so I'm going to ask you what's in this proposal, which is the 9th article or the head of this proposal. You wrote that the committee would meet, i.e. consist of 15 MPs in proportion to the composition of the Croatian Parliament, and then you wrote that the president will be elected by the majority of the opposition ranks. This is now a proposal from the 12th Commission. Can you tell me where it is and in which of these 11 wrote in such a way and why you wanted to put it in this proposal and vote. What's that supposed to mean? Do you then question everything, write it all down, vote it all, judge it, and say it was that or there was some other reason. Or did Grmoya advise you in that part?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22187	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22188	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Boric, there is something called a law governing the work of investigative committees. We have a constitution, it says who's in charge and who's in charge of the investigation committees. And if you do not agree with the specific provision of this proposal, there is something else that you should know how to use it after so many years in the Croatian Parliament and that is the amendment. Please submit an amendment to any of these provisions, and we will consider it, and if that amendment is relevant, we will accept it. But what you're doing shows something else. It shows that you do not want to adopt this proposal and that you will find one point, one word to rationalize to yourself why you are against this and to sleep easier. But you don't have to do that. You can only be corrupt or a anti-corruption fighter, and you're corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22189	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22190	Thank you very much. Honorable President, Article 238. I think a colleague of the coat of arms has strayed from normal behavior. He has determined for me that I am corrupt, even though I do not know from which he is allegation, my works, or anything he has determined. I think this was a pure insult and it's worth your warning, because I've never been in court in my life, I don't have any criminal record, I've never been in a conflict of interest, and I'm not gonna be told by such characters that I'm corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22191	Yes, colleague Boric, you're right. You directly accused your colleague of being corrupt. This wasn't a political assessment. Let me just finish up a little bit. [[Intruder Grbin: Dear Mr. President...]] Excuse me, Comrade Grbin, yes. [[Intruder Grbin: The Honorable Mr. President is not a colleague of the Grumoi but a colleague of the Grbins if I may correct you.]] So, you've done something I don't think is correct, you have no proof, you've made no evidence of that claim. I'll give you a warning and please don't say personal qualifications. So we can speak politically in general, but if you don't have proof that someone is corrupt and you haven't presented them then I think it's an insult and I'm giving you a warning. Mr. President, supporting corruption means being corrupt. Supporting corruption means being corrupt. You, Mr. President and HDZ, support corruption. So, you're corrupt. My colleague Grmo, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then I'm giving you a warning now and I'm taking your word for it. [[/Storm of the coat of arms: The coat of arms. Give me a warning, take my word for it. Supporting corruption, you're corrupt.]] A fellow coat of arms, please. [[And you can do whatever you want to do to change this fact won't.]] Now I'm taking your word. You've insulted me now. So you can't say that I'm corrupt, or anyone that's corrupt, you have to have proof of that. I can tell you that you're corrupt, because there are some cloudy situations in your biography, too. So don't do it. Don't do this! Let's move on now. Now it's Comrade Tomasevic's turn. A fellow coat of arms no longer has the right to speak, so I don't know how we're going to do it. You'll replicate, he can't answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22192	I can replicate to my colleague Bencic, who's also an adjudicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22193	What you wanted was a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22194	Well, I'd agree with my colleague Bencic as well. I'd be worried honestly that after this text of the HDZ investigative committee he said so great text to you, let's now explore on the basis of an example of how to improve the system so that there is no more abuse in these investigations. I'd be genuinely worried, because then I would, and this is how I know because you categorically reject him that we're on a good track. Likewise, as their opposition colleagues introduced this point, there were only nine representatives of the ruling majority in their benches. So it was more of an impeachment and impeachment. You decided to put it in five afternoons, sort of boycott this. Of course there's no one from the government. It just means he goes under the radar and doesn't really see how scared you are of it. You'd rather thank the opposition for your cooperation and get us out of the Parliament, but you can't. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22195	Thank you, dear colleague Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22196	Because we only got a little less votes than you on this side of the assembly compared to this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22197	Comrade Tomasevic, please finish. Time's up. No one wants to kick you out of Parliament and don't insinuate. You have the right to speak and speak all the time. Here you are, colleague Jaksic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22198	Dear President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure on the work of Article 235, which clearly states: “The representative cannot replicate the president, the representative of the club of representatives, and the presentation for which the speaker has been given a firm measure.”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22199	Excuse me. I was wrong. I didn't know because I've never had a situation like this before, and I didn't recognize it. So, my apology. Then the replica of fellow Habib is gone. ... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a warning to me. I was wrong to admit it because I haven't had this situation yet. She was brand-new to me. Let's go now with the replicas to show our colleague Bencic. The first one is a colleague of Oreshkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22200	Thank you, Chairman. So on the question of Sandra Bencic why we can't solve any major corruption affair, why there are no epilogues of criminal proceedings, why there are no effective and meaningful sanctions the answer is very clear. You know, you know, there's a colleague named Bencic. Well, because a party already accused and convicted of corruption in any case is not responding to a functioning and effective judiciary. It suits them exclusively with a judiciary where the Hadoseans are doing well on the convict's bench and indictee's bench. I am giving full support to the establishment of this investigative committee, because its mission and purpose would restore the role of the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament should have under the Constitution. And to all citizens who see this in these late afternoon hours, I say that no injustice they feel in their lives can be resolved until the parliamentary majority is changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22201	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22202	Thank you. Yeah, it's actually a situation that's somewhat absurd. When we talk about the systemic problems of fighting corruption in terms of individual cases and their investigations, and then the judicial epilogue, then we talk about the legislator having certain failures, and we're talking about having certain failures in the institutional structure. We are talking about the lack of political or institutional will to face major corruption cases. And all that when we talk about legislators, institutions, etc. and the lack of political will, we are talking about the majority that the institution is leading and that majority of the HDZ is in a large part of our political history. And we should actually get support for an investigative commission that would hurt the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22203	Thank you very much. ... /The Intruder Bencic: Because it binds to... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] I'm just going to make a little reference, now I've looked at article 235. I think you misread him. "The representative cannot replicate the president, the representative of the club of representatives and the presentation that led the speaker to a firm measure." It seems to me that this representative is also a speaker here, so that would mean that a colleague of the Grbin can't replicate now. He's up now, not that someone can't replicate to him. I mean, there's a little bit of a misunderstanding here. We can interpret it this way and in this way that I said. So we'll see. We need to see this with the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. However, this interpretation certainly leads to the fact that a colleague of the coat of arms cannot replicate it. But that's why a fellow uncle can do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22204	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, you pointed out in your statement that due to the leak of information, the action was ruined. However, I would not agree with you here because the action lasted a year. For a year, investigators collected facts, i.e. evidence, establishing who to examine, where to search rooms, apartments, houses and everything else, and when to collect moving actions. When you go into action, you need a far greater number of police officers or investigators. Then there's a far greater possibility of a leak. But by then, it's already been more or less determined so I think this action has worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22205	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22206	Mr. Strick, first of all, I'd like to inform you that the decision on the investigation committee is not solely about the Janaf affair. Second, was the Janaf affair the first time we had a leak? Are there other affairs in which we've had breakthrough measures? Are there other affairs where the evidence was missing, changing statements, missing witnesses, where we have fugitives hiding here in the country we talked about today in the vast majority of days? So is that the only case? If it were the only case that the Janaf affair was the only affair we would be talking about corruption at the level of the incident in Croatia. But we don't have corruption at the level of the incident. We have corruption at the level of the country's governance model. It's not an incident, it's not one case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22207	Now it's time for my colleague Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22208	Dear colleagues Bencic, you have concluded in your presentation that the HDZ is clearly in fear, that they are now finally afraid. That's what my colleague Grmoy said. Well, I'd agree with you. So fear is the rule of law. Fear of functional justice. Fear of institutions doing their job. And if they change their minds, if the government says we reject this commission, and at first she says she accepts, why didn't they come here and defend that flag of theirs now to defend such a commission? Is that also fear of rule of law? So let the entire Croatian public know as they have witnessed for months, for years with all kinds of corrupt affairs that are no longer allowed to be hidden. So if they're so tough in their positions, why didn't they show up today? The entire Croatian public sees empty chairs that there is no one from the ranks of the Croatian government who will explain this to us, and this is why we want to ban this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22209	Thank you. Excuse me. So yes, the fact is that the Prime Minister is here today that he would have to explain and justify inexcusable. So he would have to specifically say why he does not allow an investigative commission, a parliamentary investigative commission on the issue of number one of this country. Not problem 10, 15, 20. Problem number one in a country where citizens have the lowest confidence across the EU in the judicial system. In which corruption is perceived as particularly within the state bodies, especially within the public procurement system as a daily business. In which citizens believe neither in investigations nor in the judiciary. In that country, the majority defends the opposition, therefore, that it has an investigative commission on system failures, the system's insufferability to political influence. That's what he'd have to defend. Well, then you'd have to explain to your colleague Merkel why Why he wouldn't let it happen, and she did. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22210	Thank you very much. Now it's my colleague Katicic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22211	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, in your opening statement you have repeatedly said that HDZ is fighting. You also mention certain corruption, and now my question is the replica in that part. Is he afraid of the government and the parliamentary majority that introduced a number of tools to prevent corruption that you mentioned from introducing a corporate governance code, introducing a function of coherence to that so-called. early warning systems that we introduced first in Europe. Believe me, we are not afraid of this, and that we are on the right path clearly indicates the support of the citizens we received in the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22212	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22213	Let's talk about it. Here's a colleague of yours recently said that HDZ is a stegonist in the fight against corruption. A commentary on that from one famous Croatian comedian was that they also stole the arrival. This is what a Croatian citizen thinks about the HDZ fight against corruption as well. You say you've brought an ethical code for corporate practices, great for corporates. Did you bring an ethical code to parliament on the treatment that GRECO has been looking for you for years, no, because he would have gotten us here a little bit, so that's problematic. Have we resolved the issue of independence of the judiciary's investigation and independence in political corruption? Have we resolved the issue of efficiency in cases of political corruption? Well, if we did, would our cases last 10 years? Would two or three times return to retrial?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22214	Thank you very much. We've come to an end, no more replicas, so I'm going to ask the chairman of the Justice Committee if he wants to take the word of counterpart Jaksic, no, then I'm opening the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22215	Dear Mr. Jandrokovic, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues, dear Croatian peoples, I speak here today on behalf of the MOST Club, I will try to make the Croatian public aware of how important this project is to establish an investigative commission. The idea of MOST and the whole opposition supported it. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. There's a lot of things that can be done when community happens, and there's so much that we have in common, but if there's no honesty, then everything that's in common with us and with our loved ones and with our loved ones, because everything that we have in common is dirty, if there's no fundamental one, and that's honesty. If there's no fairness all falling apart, I want to be very plastic in terms, my own mother would be ashamed if she wasn't fair, my wife who I've been with since I was 16 years old would be ashamed of me, my children would be ashamed if they weren't honest. I can say even the bishop would be ashamed if he wasn't fair. Actually, when you think about it, honesty is the basis. Many of us can build cooperation on that. If there's no honesty, then nothing makes sense. What's it worth to you if you're not honest? What's your social status worth, all the money in the world? Which is worth your faith, which is worth your love, your reputation if you walk down the street and people point fingers at you and say it's unfair, it's no good. It's corrupt, it's unfair. What's it worth to you? But you know what can be ashamed of those who have cheeks how to be ashamed of anyone if they have no cheek. They are always ashamed of those whose conscience is not corrupt, whose corruption has not bitten the truth. To paraphrasise the words of old Sirah, as rust bites a tin pot, that's what corruption does to our society. This commission could help make the system work at last. A commission that would prevent the items from being stored in drawers. You know, when the police do all the good work, they hand over the paperwork, and then the team comes in and puts the stuff in some drawers to collect dust. Such matters were also to be cleaned up, or pointed to. A commission that would worry about illegal influences on official investigations, the processing of corruption and organised crime cases. This is what we wanted to come to the cause of the shooting investigation, to get answers to questions about why girls information, what happens to our judiciary, what happens to the IRS, what happens to institutions that aren't well enough to fight corruption. Our goal was to explore the work of those institutions that love to fight that they are very independent, and then reality shows a very different picture. In fact, you know what a dear fellow and Croatian public isn't everything so obvious, isn't it all so clear? If you have no reason to hide your door is open. Who is feared by a man who is upright and who is upright? Someone with a clean face to be patient with. He comes and says come all, come on, explore whatever you want, do whatever you want, and then if he's mean or he's prone to sarcasm, then wait a little while and with a smile he says here he is, are we telling you we're clean. But a man who's afraid, a man who's scared, he lives behind a thick door, behind a thick bow and with dim lights. Let me tell you. There's nothing in this society as dangerous as corruption. A corrupt man leaves behind the seeds of evil wherever he goes, whatever he's dealing with infecting healthy tissue. You can spray yourself or the air around you with the Miyaki perfume, but corruption lets smell, smell and it is tangible – working over a relationship, medical examinations over a relationship, competitions over a relationship, places on some lists over a connection, parking over a connection, maybe some and love over a relationship here doesn't know, I'm not one of those. Corruption is a stone around our necks, a weight that is too heavy and makes it impossible for us to climb up to those heights where we could already as a society only if we didn't let that corruption get us so far back. I quote: "Sin is forgiven, and corruption cannot be forgiven." It needs first of all to be cured. This isn't what a hard man said, someone whose heart isn't big. That's what Jorge Maria Bergoglio, the archbishop of Buenos Aires, today's Pope Francis, said. His questioning is determined. Corruption is not a collection of sins no matter how severe, and it is not one of such vices of the heart. She's a qualitatively different evil. We see that this weed is attacking everyone and everyone. He attacks politics, attacks politicians in almost all parties. It attacks sports, attacks athletes, attacks and religious institutions, attacks by entrepreneurs, attacks and charities. Corruption doesn't choose a nation, faith, education. She's like a virus that in this case isn't as dangerous to the body as this covid that surrounds us. Corruption except for the economy and the business atmosphere of the attack and the much more valuable immortal soul. And when he breaks a human heart, that kind of bad man he can bring good to? To whom a good man can bring a broken heart wherever he belongs. I fear that such a man who suffers from corruption cannot pass just laws, laws that will preserve our national interests, laws on everything, water sources, clean air, laws that will protect the little man, make sure no one is cut off. A system that will make everyone equal more in this country before the law, that there are no equal and equal. We, in opposition, offered ourselves, came with open hearts, open arms. We wanted to offer a new legal framework in order to enable our institutions to act in a clearer, more independent manner. The commission was supposed to show that we all care about dealing with corruption. This investigative body of ours was to testify, the Croatian public listen now this is what we all care about to clean up corruption. I was walking from Ilica this morning. I think it's called Mesnica Street. I met a Zagreb girl at a crossroads there. And then she told me, sir, tell them there, tell them I barely live on my pension. They know where it is for every lip, and they have fairies and houses of one wage. Tell them that. I turned around and told the lady, ma'am, I'm going to say it in the Croatian Parliament today. If you watch Parliament today, I will repeat your words in the Reverend's House. Without any pathetic "every candle burns", the old one would say in political discourse, of course, expressing himself. That old lady knows where every lip is, and then Dragan Kovacevic, how many 20 years does no one look at him, there's no pocket they'd tell me in Kvarner, not anywhere. Bunch of brothers! Can you? How long? That's the question. I believe that there is still so much good in our people, and I believe that this people will see, that despite the difficulties as we knew to preserve their identity, they will know how to build a better Croatia, a fairer Croatia, a fairer Croatia. May common sense help us in this matter, with a pure heart, and with us who are believers and with the defense of the heavenly mother whose sinless conception we are celebrating today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22216	Thank you. We are now going to the presentation of colleagues from Zekanovic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22217	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. That by any chance Andrej Plenkovic allowed an investigative commission do you know what would have happened? It's nothing. Is this the first investigation committee? It's not. What happened after those past ones? Nothing, absolutely nothing. But it is legitimate for the opposition to seek investigative committees to reconsider a little here, to review some potential corrupt actions, even though those from the opposition who proposed it and those from the authorities who banned it know that the investigation committee would not solve anything at all. And in fact this is all a big game, because in our society in Croatian society we have some people named Todorovic and who have some kind of, have files of 100,000 pages and who will finish their trial you know when, never. Then we have some who are called Sauch coming from the SDP specifically, which will probably end your trial you know when, ever again. Then we have one Kovacevic from HDZ who'll probably end up in jail, you know when, ever again. So one Sanader again from HZD, then one Vidosevic, then one Grgic from SDP, etc., etc. She has some groups called the Borg that we won't even judge. We've got some famous brushes of several hundred kunas bought with state money in the reconstruction of Gunja that no one's talking about anymore. We have a famous tunnel coloring for several hundred kunas per m2 that no one talks about anymore. And it all falls into oblivion because we're double-measured society. On the other hand, we have a little man I don't want to talk about names, and I get hundreds of these people a day, literally hundreds who refuse to pay out of spite for a rTV fee of 80 kuna. And it's been a few months, for a few years he didn't want to pay for one of his spites, and suddenly, at his expense, he's got more than 1,000 kunas, and there's a very strict and strict state, and he reacts immediately. Then we have a debt of 200 kuna for water, the man who made that debt died, unfortunately, his wife with three underage children didn't know about the bill, there were no warnings of doing 3,000 kuna eventually paid that debt with three underage children and there the state was strict and strict and inexorable. Then we have a man who stayed with the bank for 50,000 kuna, lost his job, returned it, with that I have to say that he was paying back that debt of £200,000 he didn't pay it back anymore because he lost his job, now he owes a famous company there's a million here's Smatrix, B2 I don't know which in particular $170,000 he currently owes, and he's already paid off maybe 300,000 when we're talking about interest. We have a young man who cheers for a club he went to the game with 0.6 spills of alcohol in his blood for seven days, stays in jail. We also have an example that someone was driving a limit is 30 km/h he drove 42 km/h he paid his 1,500 kuna. But I will repeat, we have on the other hand, the people who have mutilated this country, damaged by billions of kunas, which today unfortunately are the symbol of our country, and they will never be responsible for what they did because we are the state of double standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22218	Let's move on with the debate, just before that, I'm asking you to clear the pay phone. He will now speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected colleague Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22219	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in the introduction of this point's reasoning, it is said that 97% of Croatian citizens view corruption as a problem for the EU, while 69% believe that corruption has increased in the last 3 years. This is where corruption needs to be determined, dismembered, i.e. to croatize because it is not the corruption of Mate Ivan who gives the prosciutto in order to please him in something, so our judiciary says that it has successfully solved the case. Such acts are considered exaggerating crime. When it comes to serious crimes, they are called organised crime. However, corruption is when those who pass laws, i.e. legislative for those who enforce the laws, i.e. The execution or those who determine legality, which is the judiciary, violate laws or give protection to those who act against the law. In any country, corruption cannot exist if the system's institutions function. Here we will not enter the anthropological analysis of human corruption or corruption is reserved exclusively for Croats because it is an old pain. And Judas Iscariot took the silver pieces to betray Jesus. But the civilization's achievement is that we fight this evil, and corruption is evil systematically and resolutely. Now that I have croatized corruption, I will also croatize the fight against corruption in Croatia or more precisely what the powerful in Croatia claim to be a fight against corruption. We support the establishment of this commission, but here we must make it clear that corruption in Croatia is not a matter of perception, but it really exists in almost all segments of our reality. Corruption in everyday life is felt by Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, and corruption is the protection mechanism of selected entrepreneurs or we can call them regime entrepreneurs who reject foreign investors and healthy capital that is why it does not come to Croatia. Such widespread corruption would not be possible if institutions such as DORH, USKOK, police, the Tax Administration, but courts of all levels were doing their job. Here I want to clearly and unequivocally establish the institute, institutions in Croatia are not doing their job. However, they are not doing their job not because they are incompetent but because the key representatives of these institutions are either involved in corruption themselves or have been given political instrumentalisation. Here's an example. How do countries protect themselves from corruption by applying the same laws to everyone? Former Minister of Finance of the Free State of Bavaria, George Fahrenschon, had to resign as the federal president of the German savings bank Bundese sparcasse furbast, otherwise a powerful and influential function for the reason that the state's attorney opened an investigation against him. The investigation was opened because he was late to submit an annual tax application. So he put up with it, but with a delay. As a minister, he was also responsible for the IRS, the State Attorney's Office felt that he had violated his role as a model. Mr. Fahrenschon did not deny the tax, but by his delay, he damaged the authority of the state. Because why should citizens stick to laws and deadlines if those who are paid to pass laws and enforce laws themselves? We see here what it means when the State's Attorney's office is independent and acting according to the law. On the other hand, in Croatia we witnessed a scandalous scene just over three years ago when Prime Minister Plenkovic literally brought in the then state lawyer Cvitan, and interpreted in his presence a known affair on travel orders in the government. The result of the press conference was that the suspect in the Tomislav Sauch affair suddenly changed his mind and began voting for the government, and the State's Attorney's Office began to divorce and delay the affair. Thus, Plenkovic's government demonstrated its self-will to all Croatian society, its position above the law and made it clear that the DORH is not independent and that it does not enforce the laws but rather the will of political powers. In Croatia, we also have a case of former President Mesic who bought two apartments in Zagreb's elite district after his term expired. When journalists asked him where he got the money because he didn't pay them with a loan, Mesic said he borrowed money from his friend in Slovenia, the God of Dimnik. By the way, Boža Dimnik is known in Slovenia to have been a high positioning associate of UDBA. Why he loaned Mesic money, he didn't explain it. It's 2010 Mesic. He said he was gonna sell his apartment in Ilica. A few years ago, a portal announced that the apartment had not yet been sold. The question arises whether the DORH has checked Mesic's income, which is a simple task since it has always been in the public service, and what is the ratio of his assets to those receipts. Of course the DORH didn't do anything about this. We have a very similar case of former Parliament President Luka Bebić who also bought an apartment in an elite Zagreb district, and he claimed he would pay it for money from selling his apartment on Zagreb's Petrina Street. It is signifying that the buyer of the apartment in Petrinjska was the owner of the company Obšičar from the same county from which Bebić also came and who worked very hard with state-owned companies. At the end of the transaction, journalists found that the apartment in Petrinjska still stands on Bebic, but that it was sold for a far higher price than the actual one. Is it suspicious when a senior political official is doing business with a company that does big business with state-owned companies? Did DORH do anything about this? It's not. In both cases, Mesic and Bebić are people who have granted themselves the title of anti-fascist, which is obviously a smoke screen for people with communist past and what is particularly interesting with the great wealth of unclear origin. And of course protection against criminal, tax and similar persecution. I personally signed this commendable initiative, however, in Croatia there is no problem with the lack of law or listening devices, but there is a problem with the application of the law. Here I want to clearly and unequivocally conclude that the laws are obviously either in breach or if we are talking about the proposal of this committee of investigations, the state's attorneys themselves are clearly in the process. So, the most responsible for protecting against illegal activity violates the law itself. That's scary! During the term of office of state lawyer Mladen Bajic, a text of correspondence of the murdered editor-in-chief Nacional Ivo Pukanic and Bajic was publicly published. When reading that text message between Bajic and Pukanic, you were the first to have a headache, and then you got three ulcers on your stomach because the state's attorney was dealing with investigations like a gossiping grandmother. What he was doing was a state's attorney's unequivocal crime. That was 2009. Years. However, in 2020, sir, we had a legal violation situation again by a state attorney. Namely, a Zagreb ophthalmologist called some kind of massa, which is essentially a former youth chief in the former state of Nikica Gabric, published his text correspondence with the then state attorney and current deputy state attorney Drazen Jelinic. According to these texts, Jelinic was telling secrets about investigations but he received both literal and orders from that ophthalmologist or the Mason. This means the state's attorney knowingly violated the law as well as in the case of Bajic, and in the case of Jelinic, it is also about obstructing the work of the judiciary which is a criminal offence. And then when you take Plenkovic, who brings him to the press conference of the then state attorney, and current deputy state attorney Dinko Cvitan, then in Croatia it is clear who makes the corruption octopus, who interferes with the application of the law, who gives the media information from the investigation, who writes illiterate accusations, who hides the charges and conceals crime. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't need an investigative commission for that. In Croatia we all know who does this, it is a deep state that rules the judiciary, the media and politics. Because these affairs I've caused are such that I can't hide anymore. And Croatian citizens increasingly recognize them as the key problem of Croatian society. Here, it should be concluded that the main causes of the economic problems of poverty and social anxiety are the powers of the judicial system that are protected by mainstream media and politics. We will vote for the establishment of this commission in order to speak as much about this topic as possible, so that the Croatian public will become more aware of who the causes of their problems are and to create a critical mass for the establishment of the rule of law as a prerequisite for a stable and happy Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22220	Let's move on with the debates. He will now speak for SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected counterpart, Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22221	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to be able to discuss this issue and to reach conclusions before voting in which direction we want to go, we should first make an inventory ourselves, taking into account all of the mentioned statistics that we have the opportunity to see in the reports of the European Commission, of course, and in the independent research that we have in the Republic of Croatia. And sometimes it's enough just to turn around, talk to your neighbors, talk to your fellow citizens and fellow citizens. What we are constantly getting as an objection from the European Commission is that we have very low faith in our judiciary, low faith in our institutions, but it is obvious that we have more wrong steps that have led to such attitudes and such views of our institutions. We have an extremely low level in the very institutions of government because the research that has been done why young people leave this country has usually placed economic reasons elsewhere. The first reason was usually disbelieving the institutions, the inability to change anything in this country for the better and to become all equal citizens in front of the laws and institutions of this country. We have every month in Crobarometer and Crodemoscope measuring trust in the work of the institutions of this country. The parliament that should be and in fact is the most political institutional body of this country usually gets the least grades. And now that we're adding it up and subtracting it, maybe we should start by asking ourselves what's been going on for 30 years? What are we all doing together today? And what can we do together to turn these figures in a better direction to be just in justice and in matters concerning the equality of our citizens one of the better countries in the European Union, to take advantage of our natural and economic resources that we thank God we have that young people remain in this country and do not flee from the institutions of this country? One of the opportunities for turning these numbers around was just an initiative to launch this investigative commission. This investigative committee did not appear as an idea because someone here wanted to sell demagogy, to collect political points, but because it happened on two occasions in this year that we had two large investigations, investigations that were networked with the Croatian social, political, rules of procedure of whatever kind we wanted for elites. And what's shown as modus operands in both cases is a miracle both cases are prematurely cracked measures. We even assure ourselves of the case of Janaf and Dragan Kovacevic that the great success of what was at all somewhere in the drawer for a year and what had not been found out, but behold, it broke the last day. So what now? Let's move on. What now to an ordinary citizen to whom the rule of communal compensation comes, or a debt to telephony, or a debt to kindergarten especially in this crisis for a child and within a day, two to find him, within a week, two, a month can be completed to think about the case. Yeah, you found me for my 100, 500 kuna no matter what I don't have, and someone happened to know that he was being followed when he committed and committed crime and that crime with the public funds of all the citizens of this country. We've had cases of shooting measures in the past. We've also been charged with using the resources of public bodies or these repressive devices to monitor certain individuals. It was an affair, let's remember the Linic affair in the previous government. She was having an affair with Julian Brkic and his acquaintances, his colleagues, what we're going to call it. We have cases of waving around with some sort of SMS transcripts, so it's been determined whether they're fake, whether they're real, so there's been a tip-off on who's been following, and it's been tracked down as someone else's driver takes the state exam or his sister, or his godmother, or his aunt. A lot of such cases could be listed where our measures broke and every time we say we don't need an investigative commission, independent institutions are doing their job. Now I'm asking myself a question. How do all these independent institutions do their jobs when by the day of today, not a single case of crackdowns, leaks of information in 2020, so when can modern technologies come to maltenes to anything, we haven't found in any case how, where and through whom they cracked these measures, and how did this information leak out? Usually ends up on that one, the driver of that and that minister or the driver of that one, and that prosecutor is someone's best man, so someone just happened to hear something, so he passed it on. Of course, the citizens of this country wouldn't trust any of us and more and less actually believe that. We could also list all those trials that went out of date, which ended up with those who were accused across the border. Mr. Sessa was in a debate last week that some might flee across the border before the verdict said that the judiciary or courts couldn't answer for it because it's a question for the DORH. Then on the other hand, you get an answer from the DORH that we do everything we do, but it's the courts that are to blame for the process going out of date. Today, we have a case in one of the Croatian tax administration's weeklys where there is serious doubt that a gentleman has come up with 86 million kuna of tax debt, where all this money went, where it leaks, and why nothing really happens on this issue on our judicial bodies. And all these cases have their name and last name and I wouldn't dare say that this corruption is called HDZ, SDP, Most, Homeland Movement, Center, We can because every corrupt case gets its name and last name and, of course, that person who gets caught in "toes in jam" should be answered. But the question arises when the opposition hands out, why is it said on the other hand we do not want an investigative commission and we do not want an investigative commission in which we will also have a majority by the way in which the majority in the Parliament will do the same. Well, here's a chance for us all to come together on all these topics, and there have been these over the past 30 years, as the remains of communism, but also as the introduction to our court of shexism that we could discuss together, which we could ask together and from which we could send citizens a message, here's the Croatian Assembly as the highest body of the Republic of Croatia has conducted an investigation, and that's what we can tell you today, and not that the MPs turn out to be careful how they will communicate and how they will be asked in some debate or ask a question to some arrogant judge, a prosecutor who has serious doubts that he is being given information about thieving and pulling public money. I believed that after comments and Prime Minister Plenkovic and a colleague from HDZ who was with me in a national television show that this would be a topic where we would be able to get away from these petty political debates and that together we would agree on the rules of this investigative commission and together in this investigative committee, give the citizens that hope that we could overcome political interests and that we could begin to clean up our system for which we already know that there is a problem with corruption. Did it stay as the main set in the heads of the past system, did it stay as the main set of conversion or privatisation, whether it's from too much watching television and everything that works in the mob in the series, but it's definitely that in some heads we have that main set. And so we appeal once again to the opposition and to the ruling majority to maybe sit down again, to maybe talk again, to maybe go through all these points again, but to see how and how to run this investigative committee and send a clear, strong message to our citizens that we are ready to become a country in which we will not shoot measures in which someone who has a political protector or has a fat wallet will come up with information that will save him from the persecution and from the laws of this country. 2020 to '21. We are in the EU, we want to be part of this developed European community and personally, but also as a SDP, we think that we can take steps that through judicial reform and through other parts of the judicial system will begin to place us among better countries in the EU, not that we are talking about the mafia having its own country, and that young people, at random, can catch opportunities and go across borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22222	I ask you to clean up the pay phone and then speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Cent and GLAS, a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22223	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, on the efforts of ruling to marginalise in every way possible any issues that should have been consulted through the debate on this investigative committee, the fact that we started at this point in the agenda at 5 p.m. We know how this debate will end from a statement I'm about to read. So, it says here, we will not set up such a commission because it crosses the frameworks of the law on investigative committees and the work of this commission would be reduced to one working group that should in a certain way change the laws relating to the conduct of investigative actions, reconnaissance, the whole criminal procedure in Croatia. We don't think the commission is a medium for such work. Branko Bacic, yesterday. So we know how the debate on this investigation committee will end. But what we don't know and I don't know if anyone can tell me. Where's the more transparent Dario Hrebac right now? It is so transparent that it has become transparent, invisible, such as transparent and reason why it supports the ruling majority. It seemed to me that last night I had dreamed of the government of Gotovina who had told me through my sleep to warmly order Dario Hrebak and to tell him that he's been doing a great job protecting corruption, God of Croatia since that lowness and hatred, he's doing a great job. Is there really nothing liberal about supporting the corrupt majority? And that most of the corrupt testimony is a fact, and that will be said by every expert, every lawyer, every lawyer, every judge if he's honest and every honest state lawyer. Corruption is of a systemic nature in Croatia, and what HDZ is doing is safeguarding the system that generates corruption permanently and over and over again. It is therefore against the establishment of this investigation committee because it is not engaged in an individual affair. He deals with anomalies, weaknesses in our institutional and legislative framework, which is why the fight against corruption practically does not exist in Croatia at all. It's clear why. Like I said, you know. There is nothing that could be considered a continuation for which he fought and represented Vlado Gotovina as the ruling majority. And if the true liberal and heir to those dreams that Vlado Gotovac dreamed of about Croatia, Dario Hrebak would be on our side and support the establishment of this commission. In fact, this is just the Judas of all the values and principles he presents himself with and is advertised with. A more technologically advanced version of the coin could be said. But let's get back to the beginning of how the opposition unisonously proposes this investigative commission. It all started with one affair, once again in a series of affairs that we learned there was an illegal club, one meeting point of the social political elite that was making decisions about how through various public bodies, the money of our citizens and taxpayers would be drawn into someone's private pockets, the money that was being taken out of that same club and hidden in car trunks by people working in institutions that these same thieves should be scrutinizing and persecuting. And then we all wondered, so how come we don't have institutions that could, in time, effectively discover such things, process, sanction the perpetrators and establish one fair, effective state in which the same rules apply to all. But we know that answer, too. We do not have such institutions because, in fact, the effective construction of effective, strong independent institutions has not been the priority of any government so far, and I must say that, in the construction of institutions or SDP, it has not shown excessively, although it has tolerated their development and the creation of which, unlike HDZ, independent and independent institutions have always been a threat. And the main objective of the HDZ's political action was to undermine independent institutions, and if by chance any of them appeared and achieved some results, then the mission was euthanasia and sabotage of such institutions and bodies. I was in charge of one of those. It's the Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest. We all know that one decision of the body has been linked to the fall of one HDZ government, and I am responsible for arguing from this stage, Mr Bacic, that the Commission has remained at the level of criteria, and standards and legal interpretations such as it had during my term of office, that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic would have fallen several times by now. But that is not the subject of the investigation committee, nor would the investigative committee deal with it. As I have said, we know what the solution will be and what the position of the Croatian Parliament and the ruling majority will be on whether or not this commission will be established, and I am actually pleased that the debate on this item of the agenda will take place in the week marking International Anti-Corruption Day and this is the best way to mark this day. In fact, the day should be declared silent because there is no fight against corruption in Croatia. In Croatia, corruption is the government and corruption of Croatia. And now I'm not going to talk about the end of this month ending the period of validity of the existing strategy. Is that you, sir, going to get a stick to take down the Rules of Procedure? I'm expecting it. She's expected of a warning because it's not a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure. So the strategy of the existing expires. The new one is neither in the bandages nor is it expected that what would put into the HDZ strategy has any effect or purpose, such as no will or debate why what is written and written in the existing strategy has not been implemented until the end and why any attempt to improve is systematically sabotaged. We've been waiting two years for an announcement, a public announcement of the property cards of judges and state lawyers. And the State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, is justified by not being able to comply with what the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Rules says... which Mr. Bacic also very often likes to call me when he calls me for my cooperation with Janaf. I'm not saying anything about the decisions of the ethical committees of those who should protect the weeds from their own ranks within the judiciary. We didn't say anything about the ethics commission of the state's attorneys making an anonymous decision compared to former chief state attorney Drazen Jelenic and an even more controversial information that is not spoken of in public. The reasoning of the opinion shows that this ethical commission had no authority to order the Masanian Association to provide the relevant documentation. So, if such a single body can't be the authority of the association, how can it be fear and shivering to clean up inappropriate personnel within the DORH system? And when we talk about inappropriate staffs to those who have not earned the task entrusted to them by the state, it is best to say that Drazen Jelenić is still working in the State's Attorney's Office today on cases that should be effectively, quickly and justly solved and that the State's Attorney's Council can't take its stand for nine months now whether he can work on investigations or not. Nor do we know which files have been spent through his fingers these past few months. Neither the State Judiciary Council is better nor the Ethics Commission of the Courts because they keep silent about everything, let's say it by insubordination and irregularities, and inethicalness in the conduct of Ivan Turudic. Nothing the State's Attorney's Office has said is appropriate that the investigation into the Janaf case is being conducted at the County Court in Zagreb, chaired by the same Turudic, who came to this same illegal club that serves as a gathering point for our social elite, which in secret decides on our fates, not a single word. The same Ivan Turudic should form a High Criminal Court. Today, they will decide in the appeal procedure according to all the bad laws, by the laws for which only the State's Attorney's Office submits to this House a report saying that too short deadlines are set for insurance on the property of the defendants, to work in poor working conditions, etc., etc. The Croatian Parliament does not discuss it properly from year to year and does absolutely nothing. But it's already a repression. That's the phase, I'll compare it to medicine. It's like the patient's already on the operating table and we can say he's in the terminal stage of the disease, then he's about to be dead. What about prevention? What has the Croatian Parliament done about prevention and transparency, which also Hrebak is often called for as an excuse for the existence of such a parliamentary majority? Nothing. And don't think this is your victory because there won't be an investigative commission. In four years, this will turn into your defeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22224	Thank you very much. Col. Boric's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22225	And Article 238. My colleague has deviated from the rules of conduct. I think here's the whole time here talking about how three ball should be explored, what should be done, and here she herself has led to the collapse of the government, the one government with the object that she's boasting about here today as a representative. It's simply unimaginable that people who have had the opportunity to judge in certain processes are now misusing it and thus boasting here. I think it's for thinking about everyone in Croatia what we do and how these people behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22226	Yeah, it's for thinking, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So then you get a warning, because this was a replica. Here's my colleague, Grmo, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22227	Thank you. Dear counterpart Boris, my colleague Bacic would not have been your club president if HDZ hadn't destroyed the government then. President Jandrokovic would not be the speaker of the parliament, and this set would not have taken down Tomislav Karamark within the HDZ in its positions. So that's what you wanted. After all, let us remember Andrej Plenkovic's statement at the HDZ Assembly that HDZ cannot be the hostage of one man. So, although counterpart Oreskovic likes to attach great importance to himself, the government was at the time and before that decision was at stake, and you yourself contributed to it when you voted against Prime Minister Oreskovic, while MOST's ministers were sitting there with him. So you're looking for that you've got. You got rid of Karamark yourself. Now you have Plenkovic, you have these positions. We'll see what's gonna happen. But I'd go back to arguments for an investigative commission. We haven't heard one, here's the debate that's been going on for an hour and a half. We haven't heard any concrete arguments against the Investigative Commission. So, no argument. I followed everything. So your first argument was that this decision was generalized. So if the rope was set, then you'd say it was too tight if the investigation started. Your second argument is that the investigation committees have never yielded fruit, and you yourself have worked to keep the commissions from bearing fruit. So let's remember the Munchen case. So, first you asked for a commission on the Munchen case, then when the SDP proposed a commission on the UDB's overall action the first President Jandrokovic and you fellow Bačić remember you well, I followed the policy then, the first you spoke was the process in Munich, we must not have a commission on UDBA's actions. There was a commission here that I personally participated in around Agrokor, which you blocked. So, every commission you've obstructed and then you ask the question of how the commissions didn't bear fruit. So if you were to move a little bit, let the committees work, maybe it would bear fruit. And your third argument, I put it out that the opposition wants to use this commission as some sort of platform for local elections. So you have a majority within the commission, you determine. So don't make a decision now. You're making amendments, and without you, you can't even make this decision about the commission. You can change that, but you don't want this commission, you don't want anything in the system to be fixed and you need to be honest and honest and say I would appreciate it. We don't want it to wave, we don't want anything to be explored, we don't want the commission, we want everything to be the way it is. So, no excess argument during an hour and a half debate, that's devastating. I've seen that before this morning on the Justice Committee when I was defending it. No one, everyone's silent, nobody's even replicated me here. Says my colleague, Boric, it's because the debate isn't exactly something, it sucks. Yeah, that's what you said. Well, I never said for your discussions that they suck. I've always denied you my colleague Boric. But when you can't deny someone with arguments, it reaches for such qualifications. So that's quite clear. But it's not easy for you. The arguments are not on your side, and you need to defend them, you've been given instructions, and now you're in an invisible situation. But I understand all that. So here I call on you once again to support this investigative committee. There's nothing to be afraid of. If everything is as you say you have nothing to do with it, that the institutions could hear it from the prime minister doing their job, that everything worked in the state. So, support the commission and let your claims that you represent here prove themselves in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22228	You don't have any replicas. But I'll just take a minute. You call me a lot of MOST today. [[You have no right!]] Oh, I do. I can only look around this Munchen case. [[You have no right!]] At that time, then, the ruling set up a commission to prevent judicial proceedings. [[Growling: Good.]] So now you're going to put me in a position where I've defended the procedure of Perkovic and Mustac. It's really not right. [[No, I didn't say that.]] So, I've been listening to a lot of things about my role. in politics towards the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and a lot of manipulation again, and now to make this up, I'm really sick of it. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I'm listening very well, but you're manipulating [[I didn't make anything up, no. You didn't deny me. You don't listen well.]] You manipulate facts and you take them out of context the way you like them. [[You're not listening very well.]] And this fellow Miletic in his presentation that was very noticed about honesty also needs to be registered a little bit, a little bit back in history and see who was talking about what and how he treated me specifically, and what you did, and then you talk about honesty. [[You're not listening very well.]] Comrade Bosnjakovic, here you go. Now you're going to hear the arguments, you can't hear them because nobody's even spoken from HDZ so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22229	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say right away at the beginning of this, it is true that all of you have already said that HDZ will not support this decision to set up an investigative committee, and it will not, but not because we are afraid of something, not because we are hiding something, not because we want to put out any fight against corruption but simply by someone here, I think that one of the signatories is precisely proposing this decision said that it was actually one play. And what I have to say here, you know the state and the system isn't built through the investigative committees. During HDZ governments actually built a system, maybe not good, maybe it doesn't work well. However, a system has been built with a whole range of institutions tasked with fighting corruption since the new Criminal Procedure Act, from a new Penal Code, from a system of preventing conflicts of interest, the right to access information, transparency in public procurement, the Law on Political Parties financing, the Law on the financing of election campaigns, the Law on State Election Commission with independent experts, so all this was done at the time of HDZ governments, something at the time of negotiations where we had to reach certain standards in order to become a member of the EU and all this was achieved and realised. But I fully agree with you who are having a problem with whether the work of all these institutions is good and at the level we expect. That's what you really need to talk about. But we had a report here the other day about the state of the judicial authority where I expected there to be some proposals on how to improve our judiciary, but other than insults, except criticism, I don't know that I've heard anything. We can review the phonogram I think the President of the Supreme Court who was here has not gone with any message to change what needs to be changed except he has suffered and heard numerous insults, not only on his own account but at the expense of other people who work in the judiciary and solve millions and 200,000 cases annually. What I would say about this decision was that it was too wide-ranging, so it is, it is a fact. In the analysis of the situation and the assessment of the situation, it is mainly as it says here from speculation of the public, of possible illegalities, of various perceptions of such or such. So we're not going from any precise assumptions, exact facts, but we're going from the perception of conjecturing possible illegalities and all that. And now I'm asking, you know, there's too wide a spectrum of the field of action here, and it's said to be investigated through the hearing, that there will be some of these results to determine the illegality, and after that is determined to make proposals for a normative and institutional better framework. Now, I don't understand from all of this, beware of Croatia's 1,000 investigations, conduct 1,000 procedures in Croatia to which this commission will be conducted, an investigation on which the judge, to whom the state's attorney will focus and ask him to make some kind of statement to determine any irregularities. There's a nice one here, we're dealing here, and we're going to be hearing the committee on the proposal of the judge and state attorneys PNUSKOK, USKOK, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, and here it's actually said that perception is extremely bad for politicians, it's not said that these are just HDZ politicians, you say all politicians. What would that mean now, that all of us who are here, and even wider, would have to come before the committee and reached out if we hadn't received a bribe, if we hadn't asked for a bribe, if we hadn't done this or that. It's too wide simply set. What a colleague of the SDP said and compromised the German system, that in Germany there was a specific question of whether the government had affected, there is nothing concrete being said here. We actually have a situation here where we're actually talking about a very wide range of possibilities that are going to happen before that election committee, and we're not really clear what. And I think that the best recommendation not to vote for this investigative committee is precisely this debate here today because it has shown all the impatience that exists between us, it has shown how ready we are to accuse each other. Here's a colleague accused of being him, of being this corrupt. So what kind of atmosphere we have before, within the framework of the investigative committee, can we expect, certainly not constructive. We need to probably improve the normative framework, we need to make the institutions more efficient, but we are not going through investigative committees and a continuation of this debate that is not, which is primarily not constructive, I am not doubting at all, and I am not taking away anyone's right to honor this or that. But this is the primary home where we have to be constructive to improve the system. This is not a step towards constructiveity, this is a step towards the preservation of one state and therefore a parliament, the Croatian Parliament does not trust Croatian citizens. Why? We have to ask ourselves if it's an obstacle like this or something, but in this mandate that's ahead of us, I think we need to have a good conversation about it and try to take steps that are possible to improve that status. We can change the system, of course, and we need to change it because we're here for the better. And it pains us that actions are extremely long and that some criminals slip through it like, like bumblebees through a spider's web. It pains me to believe us, but it's not corruption that has a last name, it's not that corruption that has the signs of a political party. It's not, it only has a sign of a man's name and name and he's able to commit a crime and deal with corruption. That's what we want. And finally, if we were to draw the line now, so many parliamentary representatives were in the process, how many of them were received by this criminal judicial verdict, ministers, directors and members of the board of public companies. It is among other things the same sign of society's willingness to fight this evil corruption. Everyone here who said corruption is a great evil is indeed evil. There is indeed a great deal of evil, and there we really need unity in finding the best solutions for both institutions to function better and faster, and for us to have a better functioning and regulatory framework that allows for good tools. I remember when we passed the new Criminal Procedure Act, it's an extremely difficult job, we changed it every year once and we're still probably far from the right solution to go quickly. But when I compare it to who it used to be, this is still a step forward. So all these laws that we passed and to prevent corruption and to prevent it at various levels, so let's just remember, I remember this beginning when I was in the assembly in 2003 I was chairman of the Committee on the Constitution. That's when the GONG organization came and asked for reports on the financing of political parties to be submitted. I didn't have to give them anything, because we just didn't have anything. We only had some kind of report on one page and we gave it all we had at that point. But we were building a system. We passed a new law, predicted transparency inside, you used to have anonymous donors. Is that possible today? Well, every lip that goes into a party has to have a name and a last name. So, all this was done under the HDZ system, and here some today who criticise and exclusively want to put corruption in line with HDZ's omens and they led the state and they had governments in two mandates and they could take steps and in some segments they did step up, we can't deny it either. But respected colleagues and colleagues, we won't support this because we don't think it's a step towards construction. We're not going to find any solutions here, and I don't think anyone's going to benefit from this debate that we have here today. So we have a whole series of options from discussions in committees, from discussions in, it will be very soon and a report on the work of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. We break the suggestions, we propose, we evaluate, and they're actually the tools that we have. And this someone said they wouldn't bring us anywhere, and I personally don't think they will. Therefore, the HDZ will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22230	There's an individual debate coming up. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It almost seems to me that after Mr. Bošnjakovic's presentation on behalf of the club, there is no need, because I think everything was to be said on behalf of the party, Mr. Bosnjakovic said on behalf of the club. What can be summed up from his performance, from what I have been saying for days, not to say two months in the Croatian public, is that this commission was founded against us in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community Law on Investigation Commissions. For what? Because it is part of the work of this committee, questions that need to be answered too wide. If you check, and please check 11 commissions in the Croatian Parliament have been established so far. Each commission was set for a specific question. There is such a wide part of the work of this committee that it would be a unprecedented move in the Croatian Parliament, that we establish such a commission in the first place. And that was why this approach to a committee that has no limitations at all in its action in the beginning cannot be supported. That was, therefore, a fundamental reason. And then when you honor us from the opposition as we hide something, I ask you to tell us what is concrete? Who are you targeting? Is there an object that you're targeting, and we'd hide it without a trial being conducted for it? Is there an object? That's what I'm interested in. Is there an object that you're targeting, that this investigative committee should question him without a trial being conducted for him? If that's what he's got, name it, and then we'll see what we'll discuss here. What is the impression believe all of us that this commission should actually be, and I said so, working group that should comb the entire criminal and legal process in the Croatian legal system, determine if there is, and I know that there are errors. From these analyses and conversations and questionings to make a new draft law. Well, that's your suggestion, it's your obligation as parliamentarians that when you find that something is wrong with the amendments to the law on individual or criminal proceedings, criminal law or any other, third, amendment of the Law on Courts, of the State Judicial Council, of the State's Attorney's Office. Suggest these changes wherever you see something not good. I agree, there are things that are not solved until the end, in which the event is missed. But to us in general... You're saying we're hiding something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, my people, what hides when everything is processed? What can we hide? And what's in court, which is already in the process, must not be debated, we must not know about it. We can discuss this, but we can't set up an investigative committee. Because this prevents Article 4. The law on investigative committees. You're putting us in a position to defend ourselves as if we're hiding something so this investigative commission can determine. So let him determine any working body of the Croatian Parliament. It was as far as I have information I don't know if the findings are secret, I don't know where these findings from the National Security Committee are. What did they determine? They had the State's Attorney's Office there, they had the police, the Home Office, I don't know who everyone was. If something has been determined I am first in favour and I want to know who is doing this to the rulings, it is doing harm to the Croatian democratic community if there is a breakthrough of measures in any case. And I judge and I'm interested in determining which case was the measure breached? For what's in the public's claim is conducted the court's case of judgment, and now whether the court is spotless, quickly reacting it will show time. I would also like a number of items to be completed as soon as possible. Another thing I said. There are a few interesting questions in this proposal of yours. The relationship between the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the persecution bodies and the SOA or I do not know the possible abuse of the positions and powers of certain officials who or the director of certain institutions that constitute law enforcement bodies. He's got it. It was therefore necessary to put forward a different proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission. That's why I don't have time. This is a really big topic in five minutes. But I do so that we cannot support such an investigative committee not because we would hide something but because we do not know what kind of wide work that this commission could possibly do for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22232	Time. We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22233	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bačić, the law says the commission can be done, do you hear me well? The law says that an investigative commission can be established on any issue that is of public interest. Since what's proposed is covered by 10 questions, 10th, I don't think there can be an argument ruling what's what for you? Too much work. Who should answer these questions if not the Croatian Parliament? And I can't believe I'm gonna say this, but I really agree with you. If this committee were formed and we were to get answers to these questions, would it really be an unprecedented move? The reason why all the previously established investigative committees were unsuccessful in answering one single question they asked themselves was the majority that was fabricated and insincere in the commission when the commission was set up. This was your last chance to clear yourself of the image and reputation of the corrupt political party that HDZ has.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22234	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22235	Mrs. Oreshkovic, I don't know what to tell you about your constant performance since you've been here in the Croatian Parliament. If it is in the interest of someone to expose themselves, to establish all procedures regardless of whether SDP's officials, parliamentary representatives, are involved, another is for us in the Croatian Democratic Community. But it can't be solved by a policy sharpened, colored by hatred for HDZ can't. This can be resolved by the judiciary, by the judicial authority. I'm the advocate of such a successful judicial authority, and we prefer it to be a quick, spotting judgmental authority. But you cannot take the right to be lawyers, state lawyers and judges and immediately condemn the Croatian Democratic Community in the beginning. That's not what we're gonna let you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22236	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22237	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here we hear all afternoon we hide and fear. What are we hiding? You said it. Who are we afraid of? Those who fight in the green-left block around a chair they'll never see. Those who are one man, one party, people who simply bomb us daily here with some kind of investigative action and don't lead anything. What are we dealing with here today? So we have a representative who was president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, so she's using her cases here in her discussions. Is that the permeability of the Croatian system? How am I supposed to think about this conflict of interest committee tomorrow? Shall we watch the next one here? Shall we also look at judges who have tried cases that sit in these chairs and talk about the cases in which they have tried and boasted about it? Is this something that is a message to citizens, here we are fighting for a better, better quality judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, for a better right, for not knowing what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22238	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll bet I haven't been able to say anything else, and it's worth mentioning when the law on investigating committees is. Thus, the Law on Investigation Commissions states that the schedule and number of members of individual committees are proportionate to the constitution of the Croatian Parliament. So the number of relations between the opposition and the ruling must be equal to our schedule here in the Croatian Parliament. This is the first time that one commission has been proposed in a way that those who are in the minority in the Croatian Parliament are in the majority of this commission. So it's the same kind of fiction that I really didn't hope to find here in this proposal to set up an investigative commission. Before I begin to debate, I read the scientific paper at the Faculty of Law which was written on investigative committees, so I recommend that those who suggest this read this scientific paper that established the way in which the commission was founded, so it will certainly be much closer to our views.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22240	Time. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22241	My colleague Bačić, this debate of yours reminds me of when you said that the exclusive economic belt is the same as ZERP and that it is nonsense and... when you changed when you support the exclusive economic belt as a national interest. I see no reason why the Croatian Parliament would not establish an investigative commission on the work of independent institutions. So the people are aware that measures are being made. You're aware that measures are being made. You say we'll rely on the judiciary. But the judiciary is and you know it well, you know Vladimir Shakespeare. Why wouldn't we, as Parliamentarians, have the legal right to allow us through our godfatherly relationships? Because the people are aware, and they know that the measures are constantly penetrating and that independent institutions are politicized. The Roman case is not a unique case. This came out, and there are likely to be many such cases, and that is our legitimate right for which the people chose us as an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22242	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22243	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. And you and I, when we talk about breaking measures, we think about a specific procedure, exactly a certain procedure, and when you tell me that I read in your eyes what things you mean, and these objects, Mr. Bulj, are processed. They have a court epilogue. In these proceedings, neither you nor I, as much as I am interested in who did it, I am interested in Mr. Grumoja, said that if Mr. Ostojić had specifically ordered the monitoring and supervision of Mr. Petrov and I, and that interests him. And now there's a procedure for it if it comes to it. And as far as ZERP is concerned, I have no change in the exclusive economic belt. We will not, remember by declaring an exclusive economic belt compared to ZERP nothing important changes, except that Croatia will be able to build in due course when it is artificial islands and use wind energy in the exclusive economic belt or in ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22244	Time. The last replica of the distinguished representative Danica Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, in political terms, lost his election four and a half months ago, and the citizens trusted the Croatian Democratic Community, the Croatian Democratic Community and the government, which is the leader in the fight against corruption. Do you think with this proposal they went with, with which the opposition initiated this proposal to predict things that are against the law, which means that they failed the exam with this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22246	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22247	Thank you, Mrs. Baricevic. Fate power is part of the entire state government in Croatia. It's neither better nor worse than the other members of the state government. Perhaps certain items for which the public expects speed, efficiency, perhaps sometimes a mistake in their adoption have contributed to the collapse of citizens' trust in fate. But yet I am thinking, and I am, and I believe, and this is the position of us in the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives that it is necessary to allow that authority to be independent of the influence of both legislative and executive authorities with all the mistakes it has. We have one after all. But we need to make it possible if we are a democratic state, if we are Democrats to make that judicial authority truly independent, independent of the influence of politics or executive or legislative authorities. If we do so, it will be much better than all the commissions that we try to establish here in the Croatian Parliament and which are not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22248	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22249	I will actually look back in this section on what has been said so far by the esteemed representative Bošnjaković and MP Bačić. First of all, you started your exposure with the scope and the questions the commission asks is that it's a play. So now let's all citizens hear what the HDZ thinks is a game. Therefore, research and identification of obstructions and other illicit influences on independent investigations and the processing of corruption cases, and in particular the influence of political authorities or officials, officials on the obstruction of independent investigations, weaknesses in the legal and institutional framework against corruption, failures in the security and judicial system resulting in the reporting of classified data, information to unauthorized persons related to investigations and judicial proceedings, the ability and capacitation of independent bodies and judicial authorities to detect, investigate, prosecute cases of abuse of powers and corruption cases in their own organisations and institutions. That's what we were talking about here the other day where Mr. Sessa didn't have a single answer to how they do it within the justice system. Key obstacles within the investigation and judicial procedure for a faster and more effective system of sanctioning perpetrators of criminal offences, corruption and organised crime. So it's a game. Questioning and investigating these issues is HDZ's play. Furthermore, you listed what HDZ did to fight corruption. First, we will say that the whole legislative framework that was being set after 20 years was being set up only and only because it was conditional on negotiations in chapter 23. And if there were no chapters 23 and literally at some point in the European Commission's blackmail that negotiations will not be closed until a certain legal framework is created, it would never be there. What little we have is a framework we can thank Chapter 23. You further said that the reasoning of the decision lists things that are perceptions. Yes, when measuring citizens' confidence in institutions, their perception of corruption is measured. So you're the Eurobarometer and bringing down the Eurobarometer that's being done every year is about bringing it down to perception. The fact that we have been on the lowest scale in the European Union for years, according to the citizens' confidence in the institutions, is just a matter of perception. It doesn't actually have any real foothold, and it repeats itself year after year, and that's why you reject this commission. You said it was not clear in the decision who is influencing, it is not clear who is influencing and that it would be questioned, and we clearly state the influence of political bodies or officials. We know by law and by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which are political bodies in the Republic of Croatia and which is the definition of officials or officials. I don't know how you didn't know that. Then you say that corruption has a name and a name, not a party's omen. So what's wrong with you? Is this, like, temporary amnesia? Your party is therefore convicted, declared responsible for corruption in the Fimi Media affair. Not legally, but for the second time, for the second time. Mr. Bacic says what you're hiding. Well, it's clear which sentence hurt you the most. You say you have nothing to hide. So you're hiding that you don't want to get to the point of asking people, especially people who are professional and who have the integrity of USKOK, PNUSKOK, state lawyers, especially former state lawyers who no longer depend on you and your re-election, that we ask them if when you did this case, this corruption affair, this case, whether there's ever been any pressure from any official from any political body on how you're conducting an investigation, which is the result of an investigation, which is why you don't want the public to hear it, so it's clear to me, but without it, the investigative commission doesn't make sense, and we certainly won't give up. Mr. Bacic quoted Mr. Fran Stanicic and his work when we were preparing this decision of net Bene. Mr. Stanicic clearly said the same thing so that what's the problem with all the committees is that that the ruling is obstructing the president who comes from the ranks of the opposition, also for those of you who did not know that the president comes from the lines of opposition.../Time./... that it does not appear in your law because it states in the Constitution paragraph 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22250	Please stay, you have a couple of replicas of your colleague Bencic. The first is Honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22251	Dear colleague Bencic, the word of play was said by one of the signatories of this decision, the proposal of this decision, said it was a play and that it was nothing. Look at this phonogram, so one of the signers just said about this whole process, we'll talk about it later. As far as Chapter 23 is concerned, believe me, you don't want anything better in Croatia than I do. I've had opportunities to be a minister at a time when we've closed Chapter 23 always, but I've literally always said that everything we do is to be a better society, not to please someone. And today I also want us to be a better society and every good initiative you have but a good, truly good one, I will support it. As far as perception is concerned, perception is not something quantifiable, I don't underestimate it, but it's still perception, and we need facts here. So, as far as HDZ is concerned and its judgments are concerned, you need to know that, it's based on a natural person again. There is no original responsibility of a legal person without the responsibility of a natural person. So you have to connect it. You need that law. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22252	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22253	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to do my best to answer all of this quickly. So, when it comes to perception and that it is not measurable, it is measured every year by a eurobarometer, it refers to what level of trust citizens have in a certain type of institution. The lowest have in the judiciary, we have seen and have the lowest in the EU. Therefore, it is measureable and measured and made public. The second thing, as regards a colleague who mentioned therefore the play of what he meant and that it is clear from the very beginning as HDZ who has been unlawfully declared responsible for corruption in the Fami Media affair will certainly not approve a commission dealing with the research of political corruption and the insufferability of the system of pressures in political corruption investigations. That's what he meant and it's actually clear to everyone. So when it comes to good initiatives, we've had good initiatives every time. With every criticism, we make a proposal. On some of these suggestions some of you respond well, privately, but of course you can't support it. Because you must be against what the opposition brings and you must constantly be against [[Intruder: Time.]] Even when it comes to people's lives like our proposal [[Intruder: Time.]] for the management of the Covid crisis. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22254	Maria Jelkovac, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22255	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues do not need to read our questions again, we read them well. So what we're complaining about, and we think it's too wide-ranging, that's exactly the way you asked these questions. So what I want to tell you and ask you. In which way, and you have found in the very proposal that the investigating committee should collect all relevant documentation, examine all persons, and the field of research is the MUP, the Directorate of the Police chiefly PNUSKK, the advice for the coordination of security intelligence agencies, that now not all together, there are 10 institutions. I'm asking you what are we going to do here investigating committee you've imagined as a revision of all these institutions? We're gonna turn into their auditors? So in the system that we have is how the system works, who controls them, who proposes recommendations, and we here as advocates have that possibility, we get reports, we have the ability to ask questions and propose a better, better framework, a legislative framework for functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22257	Okay, well, let's start over. So, this obligation of the investigative committee that is mentioned is a legal obligation that stems from the law and is in fact a copy of the provision of the law that it is known that the commission intends to do exactly so in accordance with the law so that what you just said is quite irrelevant, that is how the law so decreed. As far as the audit is concerned, no, there's no revision. It is an accurate, concrete and targeted issue which are the points of the system for which their employees estimate that they need to be strengthened and that institutions are more pressure-resistant, information leaks and the ability to fight corruption. So what we're looking at is not an efficiency review, but a question that we all detect all those cases when there were political pressures and see how we can empower people in the system and institutions to resist these pressures and not have a leak of information and that we have a really effective process of corruption. You know we don't have it, because if you said we had it, [[Intruder: Time.]] She'd really something wouldn't be right. [[Intruder: Please time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22258	Please be careful on time. The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22259	Dear colleagues Bencic, by replicating you, I will actually replicate Bačić, Boric and similar to them. You're worried and upset that you have to look at me here, and I'll tell you why I'm here. I don't use any single case I've solved, there's no need for that, I've solved it publicly in front of media representatives, all decisions are made public, available to everyone today. And that's my legacy, that's my legacy that I leave to the Croatian state, to the Croatian citizens. During my term of office, the institution has built up and placed on good foundations some standards that are hard to reach today. But there is another reason why you should be concerned about my stay in the Croatian Parliament, because I have another knowledge. And that's the knowledge of weaknesses within the law, weaknesses within the institutions, I know the system inside, and it's my ambition to change it, and I also know the people who are sub-disciplined, and they're targeted and deliberately put into certain state bodies just so they don't do their job right. Everything I do in this Croatian Parliament serves to make such anomalies I.D. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22260	Replication response. Do you have a colleague Bencic response to the replica? You don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22261	No, I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22262	The next replica, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22263	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your proposal for a decision, inter alia, state the questions that the investigating committee should be examined and, among other things, state that the investigative committee should be examined under what conditions, to what extent and at which point the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, the Assembly, shall report on the findings and investigations. I therefore personally believe that the answer to that question does not require the establishment of an investigative committee because the answer is in the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. In accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, all reconnaissance actions including special evidence actions, and in particular corruption, are secret. It shall be decided on the taking of specific evidence actions by the judge on the basis of the request of the DORH and by all persons who have learned the content of those actions not to disclose it. Thus, the reconnaissances should not be familiar with either the president of the state, nor the parliament, nor the government. Therefore, in order to answer most of your questions in your request, there is no need to establish any investigative committee, but it is necessary to read the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22264	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22265	Great. Here's what a man would say about this than then the swing wrapped up chocolate because it says in the law, and then we don't have leaks because it says in the law that they're secrets, so in order for someone to find out for them that information is secrets. As regards the examination of information which is confidential or as regards investigations involving a testimony in which classified information is given or presented, there is also a rule of law. And yes, what he means is that the institution can refuse, so it can refuse that her employee, an employee, testifys if this would lead to the discovery of a certain type of classified data, and can also enable him to testify after making a test of proportionality and a test of public interest. It's one of the things that hurts you too because we're asking all the institutions here. before the prohibitions are made by a test of public interest and a test of proportionality which must be carried out by the Information Access Act anyway. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22266	The next replica is Reverend Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22267	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, I would actually refer a little bit to Mr. Bošnjakovic's exposure which said that the system exists but may not be good. Now I would ask you if maybe the system isn't, is the system perhaps functioning selectively? In fact, we heard earlier during the motion that the review was not 6 years in JANAF while, for example, in the town of St. Sunday, since HDZ was not in power, different inspections and audits came in 30 times. So once again, does the system function selectively and if you think so, would such an investigative committee contribute to changing such a practice in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22268	Yeah, I'll answer right now that the system works selectively. And that what generates it as any corruption, what generates it is a permanent inequality of citizens under the law. It is one of the key problems in this country that citizens are unequal not only in the economic and social sense but are also unequal to the law. And that inequality is not generated through a legislative framework that must be harmonised anyway but generated through the work of the institutions, selective approaches that will come to which the inspection will not come, selective approaches to which the building permit will be resolved in 30 days, and which will last for 10 years, which will be granted the re-purpose of the land if Mr Bačić and you also know something about how land is re-scheduled because it is otherwise the first step of advancement in the HDZ hierarchy. First you have to learn to repurpose land, and then you go to the wind power plants later, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22269	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22270	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to warn, so take this opportunity to warn of an unequal, discriminatory attitude towards the tenants and officers of the jump departments in the courts who are indeed in a subordinate position. So everyone in the first plan is anti-corruption policy, but officials and subsistence officers, you know the departments work for criminally low wages, and yet they get the raises they get from their fellow judges by setting up these departments is not approved to this day. Last year, they held a protest in February after which the then Justice Minister Bosnjakovic had given them the raise but it did not come to this day. When judges received a raise in 2009, it was 2,700 kuna as much as the salary of a court clerk. These people work for some 3,000 kunas, these are people who spend every 4 years going through a security check and a degree that violates their constitutional rights guaranteed to them and those they communicate with, these are people who meet criminals and who also live their free time in danger, and these are people who are doing a very important job anyway for which they should be rewarded. As in many other dams and here is the division between those who are relatively well standing, let’s say judges and those who stand much worse, and so are officials and tenants. The same division also takes place in education between teaching staff and non-teaching staff where the teaching staff has won more salaries, unteachable when not in healthcare between doctors and nurses or healthcare staff who experience this health care system and the collapse of that health system not only on their shoulders but also poor and miserable salaries. But I would take some time to say about, something about systemic corruption. So, it's also up to all the ruling and opposition to anti-corruption, anti-corruption policies may be some of the most important policies today, but many are completely ignoring structurally that systemic corruption is at work and it all comes down to two common explanations, so I'm going to present them. So, the first is this standard anti-cliential narrative most often to the opposition pretenders to power especially those who have not yet been the holders of the executive authority where it all comes down to the problematic individual and group morals of the current authorities, i.e. those who have an impact on public sector employment most often. From the diagnosis set, it turns out that for the rule of clientelism, some changes in social economic relations are not necessary, but is sufficient through the election in the current political framework to replace morally problematic individuals and groups in positions of government with morally invulnerable individuals who will not practice or support clientelism or nepotism. The second approach is something more complex and points out that its samples should be sought not only in the troubled morale of the holder of the authorities but also in opportunities for clientelem, and they are defined formally, procedurally and normably as insufficient transparency of the tender procedures, as inadequate legal frameworks, as the lack of adequate control systems of the division of the authorities etc. But I'm going to give you an example of destroying an example of INE where it's not just the problem of immoral individuals or enough transparent procedures, although there are both, but it's the result of legal, systemic and structural corruption, where guessing the MOL Corporation against domestic interests is based on the letter of the law. Or, for example, a case of ZG-Macelj highway subsidies, an Istrian ipislon where the concessionaire is guaranteed a certain profit. It was said here that the problem is therefore not the coming of the investigation in JANAF, so I think it may come to an investigation here, we had a report on the investigation of these highways, so no problem is, all by law, we just signed such a contract, because we finally get private capital from the start of concessions to 2018 we pay 500 million kuna, and a billion kuna will be paid. Shipbuilding is also a good example that employs 10 thousand people, highways not exactly, but it was concluded that it was okay to pay private concessionaires while the subsidies in shipbuilding were thrown into a bottomless hole, etc. So what I want to emphasize here for that I don't have enough time, is that we need to pay attention to systemic and structural corruption that we're not going to solve for the good. Better laws, not commissions, but social change [[Intruder: Time.]] economic structures. [[Intruder: Time.]] And that's what this way unfortunately won't address, a solution that social Most don't pay private companies... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22271	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22272	We've been discussing this all day. One part of today about whether the commission, one commission, the parliamentary investigative commission to oversee means that we see what is about the impact of politics on independent institutions, but I would have to say here briefly, my colleague Bacic mentioned this should add that this should be done by the judiciary. However, the biggest mistrust of the people in Croatia is on the Croatian judiciary where it is tailored to a person, here yesterday 15 years since the arrest of General Ante Gotovina of the man who put the justice system into practice as it suits him by the godmothers in the Supreme Court and gave in all respects to the court's findings and he controls all this is Vladimir Seks. Yesterday, 15 years of fulfilling his statement to locate, arrest, transfer, process so that this judiciary was essentially more concerned with implementing Vladimir Seks's policy, his friend, Stipe Mesic, Ivo Sanader at the time, so that this judiciary did not mature in a way that we could trust in the judiciary. But I'm going to say what's important to me, basically in my Sinj, everything went because of corruption what's really good Autotransport and Dalmatia, I'm also tried for being this guy at the time, not just the workers, but against the corruption that's proven to be pure corruption. These companies were basically destroyed, a large transport company in Sinj, Dalmatinka Sinj, workers who were literally this hungry, were not paid. I've been in certain processes, I've filed personal criminal charges, so I don't know which one of the MPs is that he's been tried for labour rights, I've been tried on several occasions before I got into politics. The whole system has fallen apart because of corruption, bribery because of why we didn't go to the Homeland War, the Homeland War is a desire for free Croatian, equal, for the Constitution that we have before us in which we have sworn that is why we are sitting here. Is there any systemic corruption? There is. Is the system corrupt? It's corrupt. And we all know that, but we are parliamentary representatives of those who have to go through certain investigative committees, according to those investigation committees personally, have not produced any results. You know why? Because of the destruction of the majority, the destruction of the majority. And that's why the state audit here says that before, on my question, six years ago, it didn't mean anything to them in JANAF. And it can't mean politics being run, it can't be a representative of the judiciary, it can't be a representative, it can't be a representative, it can't be a representative, it's a 3 minister all to be in the club of the head of Mr. Kovacevic's boss and it can't be banked, it can be shrugged and the interests of how public procurement, the destruction of competition and, of course, that.../incomprehensible/... come on. We're not just talking about these public procurements right now. We can talk about agriculture. Here, in agriculture, Croatia has never again received incentives, and it has never produced less, never less. What does logic say? Stealing. What does logic say if we've never produced less? So where's that incentive money? Gone for our self-sufficiency. In all these questions we have to speak to an open and investigative committee, I don't see why you're so.../incomprehensible... you're defending it from being founded for what. Here's a reason. Give the people a message and tell them why. When I was an activist, I was involved in activistism, I fought corruption, I stood behind workers, I was prepared, I was tried, I was tried, I was with them, but the politics of Ivo Sanader, it's the same to you, nobody now knows Ivo Sanader, in HDZ you'll be wondering who this Ivo Sanader is, probably a colleague Boris asks a colleague of Bačić who Ivo Sanader is, and together they were in the ministry, this one was on the same page, what if your problem is to visit Ivo Sanader or Shakespeare if the problem is to visit Ivo Sanader, shexism is, I'll visit that. To finish this thought, shexism is the biggest problem right now because the judiciary is corrupt, people don't believe in the judiciary and mistrust in the judiciary has led to this situation that people are leaving, the young are leaving, and the economy is in ruins. And if we don't take steps as representatives of our initiatives, even if through this investigative committee on the impact of politics on independent institutions, we won't do anything about it. To achieve. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22273	You have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22274	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Bulj, in fact, my replica is to ask you a question and a reference to Mr. Boric who mentioned such things, I want this one, I want this cover for the memory, so he will come to me for a conversation and ask me in Rijeka, then we will normally talk about one man of a party, who today, on December 8, I took them 72 highly educated in Rijeka to join the Most, soon we will get a photo, and then we will see in the end there will be points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22275	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22276	The fact is that unfortunately corruption and in political structures, where it applies most, here I can say about my Split-Dalmatia County. You know why the coalition was created between HDZ. Here's the club president. There's a councilman at the Ante Sanader Assembly for concessions on the maritime good. HGS to Kerum's party one beach, this other beach, concession and so exists and people see it as if it's his private property. The maritime well is ours, folks. That's why we bled. That's not what they're talking about. But these are the things where political power works on the principle of concessions. You remember Bol on Brač, you remember these problems, but it's ours, from the people's wealth. They're gonna put it on the wire a little bit more, and we're not even gonna be able to take a bath. So the concessions are, for example, in this political part, also what we would like to have an unexplored commission, but we can investigate the commission and discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22277	Next individual debate, distinguished representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22278	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Bošnjakovic and Mr. Bačić here, especially because this trick that's been invented here and where I'm talking first of all about Mr. Bačić, which is to prove the complete indiscretion of people who have graduated from colleges, people who have been here for years, and I'm glad to see that maybe if they're going to get off the phone, they might listen. So people are being taught as little kids as mere schoolboys that they're not sent to even though they're done with law schools, and I'm telling you just that little game of yours and the jump that you always jump into the variant that you can't ask for anything because it's secret. So you can't and the whole thing's too wide because give us exactly what we're talking about. If we're speaking specifically, it can't because it's what's in the process and it means you can't talk about it. About what used to be if you would call here experts who were conducting preliminary actions, investigations, who saw how your party's colleagues influence it. Let's say at this point I don't know how to do this, but that's what the press is saying that it's from your Deputy Prime Minister at some point the Prime Minister's Prime Minister's Secretary of State, after everything he's done, and you're showing it here as a heroic act, because he finally resigned and it's a heroic act, and after that in the press, it turns out that the man from SOA Agent 001 Croatian pulled him out and then they must have agreed to resign, it's a heroic act. This kind of thing, so that's what we want to talk about here and, of course, all these journalists who've been getting who knows what this is about. Which is why we've been listening for years, we've been listening to top lawyers who used to work at the State's Attorney's Office, in the D.A., and who were very good at it, and now all those who, even from your party who come from the former members who come to the so-called. These complex processes are still taken by these very few two, three lawyers. Whoever comes into these difficult cases as you call them demanding fellow Bosnjakovic. I wanted to ask him the same question because like you, you said he had problems. But you insisted that instead of this commission that there would be a public where the whole thing would be, of course, as it says in all of this, what's wide about it? There's a complete hierarchy from all these instances, institutions. Of course you should look at it. And with people who have experience in it, with media representatives who follow it all the time, with all of them. However, you are proposing to us Mr. Bacic a task force. Yeah, you did mention it to the task force. In a working group in a small room, not with cameras, with media, with top experts, with people who are retired who have that experience, who know who called them. If you don't call them today, it'd be nice, but I'm telling you that you're always saying that you're still calling all over the points to intervene from down to SOA if an agent out there pulls your man out. Then it means it's too clear. And as far as the profession is concerned, the contempt of your profession is a nooran, and that's exactly what we saw when you threw the greatest experts you have in the Scientific Council just the other day Mr. Frocca made a fuss and threw them out like that. It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22279	Two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matula, you don't need to be nervous or maybe a little bit considering your profession you know how to stage. You don't need to be a lawyer for interpreting a simple provision under which an investigative committee is established for a specific question, and not this broadly I've told you. If you want to change the law or you think it's not bad, that this is bad criminal law form a working group, that's what I said, if you want to change. If you are interested in where a failure is, say where, in which case you are interested, even though the case is not subject to a trial, it will be established. And I asked you to tell us nicely which particular object you're targeting, so it would be an interest to hide it from the public. When all the cases in which certain illegal activities occurred, they shall have their epilogue in court. And as soon as they have a court epilogue, they can't be the subject of an investigative commission. And that is our position as the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22281	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22282	We asked very clearly and that's exactly what we were talking about in the media you had an example, this example of how that man was now informed and that some part of the information leaks in such a way that you suddenly realize that you can't communicate with the bank anymore. That means they took you down. Well, that's even one famous lawyer was talking about it, the press were talking about it. That's one of those examples. But they're all saying there's a lot of them, and now we have to come to you here, we have to work together, and then we have to work together for you guys because you're all acting like great experts. And then we'll pick you up like that and then we'll pray because you with 16% of the votes are so naturally powerful with the smallest number of votes ever in history, the number of people who came out. And you're giving us lessons again. There's a lot of it, a lot of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22283	Next replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22284	Dear Chairman, fellow Matula, I have indeed tried to listen carefully and carefully to your presentation and have failed to determine the subject of your testimony on the subject which is here, which is an investigative committee which I must agree with all who have spoken truly so far, and as some lawyer with a thought of a twenty-year career I can responsibly claim too broadly, placed on some grounds that are not so legally established. Just to let you know, you've made the same mistake. Here I am the vice president and the Committee on Justice, at every session, it has been publicly transferred today, and the presence of the opposition is there except for the honorable exceptions from the SDP has not been seen recently. So here's what I can do for you, and I think that if anything else and this is how you put it on a proposal for an investigative commission, it's not in line with the article's regulation. 125. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22285	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22286	I just don't have anything else to say but I really have to go as your colleague who started the Department of the Interior, the Police Department, the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, PNUSKOK. It goes through the Security Intelligence Agency Co-ordination Council, SOA Security Intelligence Agency, operational technical centre. Whose roles are that, believe me, I admit it. How would you know that and know that? And the public doesn't know, much of it doesn't know. There are several journalists you've allowed, which your team doesn't drive, persecute and sue in every way possible. That's what this is about. What's that got? I speak very specifically. The theme is where the girls measure? Well, you get that. Pretend you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22287	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22288	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would say, in fact, that the present presence of 40 proposings is also the best way to say how much you believe in this proposal for the establishment of this investigative committee. A lot of things have already been said, I'm going to try to say something about this matter briefly. We have already heard the legal basis for the establishment of this committee is Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Investigation Commissions. By Article 1 of your proposal for a decision, you have indicated that this is.../incomprehensible/... hence the determination of interference, disabling or other illicit influences on independent investigations, including the stage of reconnaissance and the processing of cases of corruption, organised and economic crime. On the other hand, the provision of Article 3 The law on investigating committees has been prescribed that a special investigation committee is being established for each specific issue, so I stress again, although a specific question has already been raised here several times. The way this is set out in this proposal is everything except that it is specified. The question arises whether the subject matter of research relates to some cases before, present or future. On the other hand, the law lays down a time limit within which the commission is obliged to carry out its task, so it is from 2 to 6 months, and by the proposal you submitted, you indicated a period of 6 months. Thus, as this proposal has been formulated, it turns out that the same applies to the issues of some future phenomena covered by this proposal. Furthermore, if this proposal concerns the issue of ongoing procedures, I would point out, and you certainly know how it is provided for in Article 4. The law on investigating committees stipulates that the same cannot be established for the questions on which the court proceedings were initiated for so long as the proceedings are pending. The proposal also tasks the commission to examine under what conditions the president of the Republic of Croatia, the government, is reporting to the assembly in investigations. To that question, as I said earlier, you do not need to establish a commission enough to read the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. This proposal also calls into question the principle of governmental trinity and the rule of law. Namely, the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia is based on the principle of trinity of government, judicial, legislative and executive. On the other hand, the adoption of such a proposal, which provides for research to cover the work of the MUP, the Directors of the Police, the PNUSKK, SOA, the State Attorney's Office, the USKOK, regular courts, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the National Security Council, the Office of the President of the State, the Assembly and the Government, the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy, etc., dictates one of the fundamental principles of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is, among other things, independent and independent judicial institutions, mentioned by counterpart Katičić earlier, and here he would mention another decision by the Constitutional Court of March 2000, which I quote among other things, the principle of the division of the authorities in Article 4. The constitution is one of those rules for the establishment of state authorities that are useful as much if they serve the rule of law and defend it. Although it does not in itself have an independent value, the principle of governmental division is one of the elements of the rule of law because it prevents the possibility of concentration of authority and political power in only one body. Therefore, it is clear that by adopting such a proposal and by giving authority, unlimited powers to the investigating committee, we would derivate the principle of the government's trinity. Also, you have proposed by this proposal of 15 members of the commission that 8 of them be of the opposition order or that most of them be representatives of the opposition. In the manner described, the opposition would come by establishing this commission if, past the voter's will shown on July 5th this year, oversees the work of the government and the parliament in which most of them have positions. Finally, I repeat the establishment of this committee in the way proposed by this proposal would question the principle of governmental trinity, the rule of law, and would above all question the work of independent and independent state bodies. And for that reason not only because someone was already said to belong to a party but above all, a lawyer and a lawyer can certainly not support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22289	We have a few replicas. The first is the Honorable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22290	The replica first of all is that there is no one here in this relatively late hour, and in that sense, of course, you are aware that you have made such a decision to put a very sensitive identity issue in the morning for discussion, and that after you are well-sure that only the few journalists who are really interested are now following the media, possibly what it is, that it is only now that it is up to the debate. Of course it also has something to do with this argument. And in terms of that I don't see, here I speak for myself now, we don't have any more options anyway, but because of anti-pandemic measures here at this point I'm the one who can still be just my colleague preparing for the end, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22292	Thank you very much. I don't see your colleague here, or see her on these six screens in the other halls that are empty. So here's 10 members of the HDZ, you're 5. I repeat if you really cared about such a proposal, then I would be here I would fight for it and try to justify proving that this proposal is correct. After half an hour of hearing the presentation of colleagues Bošnjakovic and Bačić, you simply ran away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22293	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22294	I thank the chairman. It's very important to see who's really fighting corruption, and who's just talking about it, it's just lamentating. So the fight against corruption is letting the authorities do their job on their own. So the government's goal is to prevent corruption from being protected, regardless of political belongings, regardless of the name and name, regardless of the duty it conducts, and HDZ and the government have adopted a framework for fighting this corruption with all the relevant strategic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22295	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22296	Thank you, dear colleague Baričević, so I agree with you so that someone here wants to admit it or obviously does not respond to someone, but it is indeed under the leadership of the governments that were led by HDZ and if we look at the last CAP, so after 2013, which is as much as we may not still be satisfied to improve and speed up the procedures themselves, there are also some strategic documents, and an action plan has been adopted to fight corruption. But what might best testify about corruption, if you look at a bunch of procedures, so that's what's under investigation, in front of the investigation. And also the actions that have been given their court epilogue, so where it is seen there is no obstacle and there are no obstructions in the fight against corruption. So if it were the opposite of that then there wouldn't be any investigation. I mean, that gives me pure healthy logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22297	The next replica is the distinguished representative Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22298	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Habib. Whether, during a time period of 6 months, the maximum legal period prescribed for the work of the investigating committee may provide answers to questions in the proposal for the establishment of the same commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22299	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22300	Thank you very much. Well, of course it's impossible to give answers if I'm not mistaken for ten questions in the proposal itself, given their generality, given their indeterminateness. And that's where I can agree, this is where it was said, I think my colleague Bacic talked about it. These are actually topics and issues for a particular working group to prepare a future legislative proposal or for some scientific research that will determine some shortcomings. Here is the legislative, institutional framework, etc. Dake, this isn't the subject of an investigative commission since a colleague named Grbin here mentioned that the German Parliament is doing otherwise. But while he was speaking, he made it very clear that a specific case was being discussed, so before this investigation committee, so a concrete case and specific questions and a concrete body that should be answered before this committee. Here in these ten questions you have nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22301	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Habib, the position of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, is based on one legal analysis of the reading of this document. Here, by the way, I would like to explain to Mr. Matula that in this round of HDZ representatives, there are ten graduates and three of them with a passed judicial exam, and then we can probably base our position on some legal profession without the supplication of the activist-dedicated politicians or others who are subversive in this circle. We don't need that kind of help. What's very important is that, fellow Habib, let's stress here in this debate that the commission has always been set for a specific issue. And I'd like to invite a colleague, Matula, and you can read to him the so far appointed committees, so they'll see if they were like this... Generally or accurately focused that you may know his part-time work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22303	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22304	Thank you very much. I agree with you fellow Bačić absolutely. So, so far, if I'm not mistaken 11 there have been investigative committees, concrete are always issues, it's always been the subject of debate. In any event, this is what the article 3 says to you. So, I don't know who specifically wrote this proposal, but you said you should listen to the profession, so here's what my colleague Bačić said there are 10 of us here who have graduated lawyers, some of us passed a judicial exam, and let's still know something about this part about knowing how to write these proposals, or knowing the positive regulations that regulate this matter. And I'm saying, I'm not saying, that I wouldn't support this as a member of any party. I'm saying that as a lawyer, I would never support this from arguments and from a lot of other things that I didn't get here to say why I couldn't agree with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22305	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22306	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Corruption is a tumor of society. It not only destroys the economy and makes the social status of our citizens more difficult, it destroys the morals of society itself. It started with us in the 1990s with a privatisation robbery, continued corruption in state-owned companies. Of course, we must say that part of the big problem goes by from a large share of state property in Croatia hotels, business premises, land, apartments, companies. This is a large part of the ownership of the state, the unit of local and regional self-government is only fertile soil for corruption. This corruption only increases inequalities in society, but it does not increase in the way that it is let's say in some normal countries where people have their abilities entrepreneurially, meaning work comes to some wealth. Unfortunately, for us, wealth has been creating through relationships and through corruption for a long time. That is, of course, corruption is also a matter of regulation and also a question of judicial practice. Here we must always remember that unfortunately Croatian courts are also inclined to give minimum penalties or penalties lower than those prescribed minimum to maximum. They were more prone to minimum punishment. Yes, we've been scheduled by the institutions. It's been going on for years. It irritates people, people look at one and the same people in the process year after year, on TV, they watch one year, two years, five years, seven years, ten years. Sincerely longer are the procedures for corruption on Croatian television than the duration of Santa Barbara. Our politicians and celebrities are going to jail, getting out of jail with bags, it's the real reality show that's become. That's what bothers our citizens. It destroys the will of the citizens, of course, but corruption itself can be dangerous and it is dangerous for democracy itself. Those who are corrupt will always have much more money and resources to run campaigns, to advertise. That's why corruption is a danger to democracy itself. I've already said that corruption destroys the economy, it destroys the morale of society. But we also need to ask what she is doing to our future, what lesson does she teach young people? Young people watch their fathers and mothers work for salaries of three, four, five, six thousand kunas, watch their grandparents with small incomes and then watch corrupt politicians and people tied to them driving expensive cars, living in luxury, have everything they need. And then they look back at their family, grandparents, father or mother fighting every day, how they live honestly, how they barely make ends meet. What lessons, unfortunately, can these young people withdraw? Corruption, of course, is also dangerous for people who are in politics, for those who are honest. Those who are honest do not have the means to promote themselves as those politicians who are corrupt. And that is why I believe that indeed all honest politicians should participate in this fight against corruption, and they are in the interest of getting rid of those who are corrupt, who, unfortunately, have an advantage ahead of them. I think it is good to support this form of supervision, this investigative commission which would mean the body of the Croatian Parliament of the highest legislative and representative body in the Republic of Croatia, which is accompanied by the public. When we deal with corruption, then the recovery of economic and moral recovery for our society will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22307	We have one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22308	Dear fellow Witness, the fact itself, Mr. Habian correctly noted that we have a legal tool to fight corruption and organised crime in Croatia. However, the fact is that since 2014, in the most specialized body to combat organised crime and corruption, we do not have a complete department for financial investigations. Then the fact that the past few years has been a rapid decline in our police investigation bodies, the state's attorney's office in the dark area of fighting organised crime, corruption and drug abuse because it depends only on ours. I wonder how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22309	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22310	It is also the topics that should be examined by this investigative committee. But here's the investigation committee that we're talking about, which is proposed, has the first consequence, which is that we're talking about today, to talk about it in this highest body. We are watched by citizens and citizens of Croatia, and that is to say, by me, the first victory against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22311	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Next individual debate, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22312	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something I want to say about this investigation committee, because obviously this broad title of the commission's establishment proposal says that this commission should be manifested, i.e. to deal with everything and everything and then to give certain results after doing so in about 6 months. But today's debate is still trying to focus on just one word of corruption. Everything else was more or less irrelevant. That's why when I talk about committees, it's worth remembering that we've had 11. They did a lot of research on missing wheat, shipyards that ended up in bankruptcy, up to the last ones we had on the Immunological Institute and on Agrokor. And now we have heard that we are here in this majority which is almost the same as in the previous term against the establishment of commissions. The last commissions were there in 2009 or 10 years, then eight years was nothing, and then the previous government, i.e. The previous majority founded two on the proposal of opposition clubs of one who came from the Living Wall, the other SDP. And now we're listening to how we're against this because if we can, we have most of it and we can. That's why it's important not only to me that he writes, but also to who says it. And now to know who's talking, let's see who signed up there. And I look at those 40 names and we see, you come here ready, we've been preparing yesterday and today to discuss. There was no worse discussion about commissions than this one. I remember the one about Agrokor. This debate lasted from morning to evening. Let's just say that in the air you could feel the tension, it was that kind of time, the SDP club was all here with the strongest names and it was being discussed openly. You have no one to fight with today, no one to say anything to. Proposer, I watched between 7.20 and 7,48 almost 7,50 there were no applicants of any of these nine mentioned here. But the proposaler was taken by one who wasn't even listed as Mrs. Bencic's proposal, so she was giving some corruption lecture here. And of course everyone keeps looking at this side. And who sits among those signatories? People who went through the corruption process and then ended up out of date. Perhaps they should sit on which side of the table as future members of the commission, whether those who are being questioned or who are being questioned. Or we've got a crew that had tariffs, emission tariffs if they're trying to plow you, so it's a tariff. To meet a minister under a tree of tariffs. To meet the Minister at the rave of tariffs. I can order you a criminal report, they say, a charge. We can black you out on some portal. These are the leaders of this document and they're laughing. And they know what they were doing. Just because we know who we're talking to here, we've made it clear from the beginning. What matters to us is what it says and we read what it says. And you've worked very hard to write what they wanted to talk about, probably knowing that it's not going to be anything, they're aware of it. Why am I saying that? So because we saw today the leader of the opposition who couldn't wait to kick him out of the session with two warnings, because before that, a colleague from the SDP also told me that it was hard for us to discuss this when this is bad. And that's what we, as most of us, should probably support, and clearly there's nothing there. What did these congregation investigators want, led by a gentleman named Nikola Grmoya? To investigate all institutional investigators to find out why these investigators can't investigate, and they know. Those in the Parliament have an investigator's company, they can investigate everything, they can find you wherever you are, they can find you whatever you don't have, they're drawing you targets, they tell you why you're bad. For what? To hide all the bad things they have for themselves. We know something about him, too. And Croatian citizens need to know. And don't sell the citizens of this story because if you want an investigative commission, then write one question and deal with it. Do not write such readings on pages 5, 10 that do not reveal anything. We've had this kind of thing before, and it wasn't. Okay. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22313	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22314	Thank you. Dear colleague Boric, once again hollows, a cynical argument. It means to direct a commission that would be closely specialized in one case then you would say that an investigation has been launched and that this commission cannot go. No one here drew any target, I'm having an argument in which I didn't mention the meaning of any affair. I didn't mention any particular person besides mentioning you, a colleague of Bačić, Mr. Seks, in the context of always reporting with some argument of the counter-examination committee. But I haven't drawn a single target on you as far as corruption is concerned. So, I don't know what you've been listening to, and you haven't made another argument against this investigation committee. I think it shows that you're just scared, you're in big trouble. So you also have the scientific advice of the Government, as well as the overall management of this crisis around the crown of the virus falling apart before the eyes of the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. You're fighting each other, you don't know who's drinking anymore, and who's paying for the least you need right now, and I have an understanding here for you is the debate on corruption in Croatian society. And so many affairs have come out, I'm not saying that this government is responsible for everything that's happened, but so many of these affairs are related to your party, related to your coalition partners, related to Mr Bandic, so here are the exits today meaning information about the Zagreb cable company. It's your loyal coalition partner. Your faithful coalition partner, the child means that the child of the SKH, the child of the SDP and the cattle of the HDZ Milan Bandic. It's your loyal coalition partner. And you don't want a debate, you don't want a debate means corruption and I am that, but admit it, tell me we don't want it at this point, we don't want to discuss it, we don't want any investigative committee. He says you supported two investigative committees. What's that? That Agrokor you shut down, and you gave Mr. Sincic from the Living Wall over the summer, he had an investigative commission in the Immunological Institute over the summer. And even that commission did a good job. He did a good job, but, no, there's no epilogue. The institutions didn't do anything about it. And now some weeks of writing to you about how much Croatia lost because you systematically destroyed the Immunological Institute. Although there were no epilogues, it's not a big deal, and it won't be a waste of the commission's efforts, it'll all come at the expense of colleagues. And what are you telling us these days? We don't want an investigative committee, we don't need that. We don't want referendums, he says, and that's what some columnists of certain presses have to do with it. They say HDZ and SDP need to agree that there will be no more referendums. I know you're going with the law so there won't be a referendum anymore. So sell the Swiss that patent. Sell the Swiss so there won't be a referendum anymore. No investigative committees, no referendums, no elections, you don't need elections and you sell that patent somewhere, maybe you can make a good profit to a colleague of Boric with that patent. But the Croatian people follow it, and it will all come back to you as a boomerang, like a boomerang. And then you will talk about the godlike radicalization of the society that you yourself produced because you push things under the carpet, because you do not want to deal with corruption, because you do not want to ask the Croatian people anything. You'd manage, you'd pet money, you'd act like you shouldn't, and all that would be without any sanctions. It won't work, now you have a strong opposition here that will stand up to you and the Croatian people will ultimately give their judgment on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22315	We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22316	I don't know where you get this inspiration after a historic speech before you by Plenkovic's snowflake Mr. Boric, who quotes the same story every time he's a ministry because I'm going to be the minister of beauty of reality, reality is something different. Maybe under these lights it's like that. However, the people are aware and he chose us to establish means that we are fighting corruption, not that we have daily leaks of information in the biggest criminal and corruption activities, and that we are being disabled as parliamentary representatives by most terrorists over the minority to establish a commission in which they would have a majority. The commission, whether the influence of politics on institutions is independent, of course, when Seks composed his best man Branko Bačić, with Constitutional Court President Sheparovic, is of course the HDZ Lightmotive to forget all of this and to continue as they started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22317	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22318	My friend, I'm sorry, do I have the word... How many colleagues, Boric, as you call him, Plenkovic's snowflake, are executed, speaks best of his argument that he made here in the debate. Well, he made the strongest argument for an investigative committee. He's accusing, I think he's thinking of a colleague of the Vulcans who left his sentence in obscenity. So it shows that Croatian institutions, that the judiciary is not working. You're saying that colleague Vrkljan was corrupt, that he should have been struck by the judiciary, that everything had gone out of date. Well, that shows our system isn't working. Well, you're the biggest advocate of this investigation committee. To us, I'm asking my colleagues in the opposition not to argue at all. The strongest argument why we need an investigative committee was presented by Josip Boris and I thank him for joining the opposition at the end of this debate and I hope he will have no problem with his own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22319	The next replica, Honorable Agent Davorin, find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22320	Thank you, Vice President. Representative Grumoja, here to begin a representative of his colleagues, Habiban, said shortly before during a reply to a single replica that the opposition had fled the Parliament. Since we heard from the prime minister after the recent verdicts to Sanader and HDZ that this is the new HDZ, and now that same prime minister here is not, and this same HDZ doesn't really want to support this investigative commission, I would ask you whether you think that the HDZ and the ruling majority are who are actually running away today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22321	So this is the new HDZ, so these are all new people who have nothing to do with Sanader's government. Mr. Jandrokovic, the President of the Parliament has nothing to do with Ivo Sanader and Sanader's government. My colleague Bacic has nothing to do with Sanader's government. Ante Sanader has nothing to do with Sanader's government. Josip Boric means he was never at the ministry at the time of Ivo Sanader. This is Mr. Find a new HDZ, and I'd like to ask you to finally accept that fact and they would never run away from any investigations or anything, which means that some kind of corruption is going to be investigated. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22322	Last line. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22323	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In Article 238, I wanted to see my colleague deviated from the rules of some normal behavior. So I've been to HDZ before and now I'm and this party hasn't changed the name as the MOST party has changed. We heard that the MOST party changed its name, that it had some kind of meeting, several members and that after they were called MOST, they were again called MOST so that they no longer had orange color. And that's it, they're people who are carrying changes and all they need to do is read the Statute to see how they conduct the elections and how they choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22324	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. Replica esteemed representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22325	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica and Mr. Grmoya, colleague. As my new representative in this conference, Mr. Grumoya, why you insist, why you insist on the commission and I believe here I am here for a short while, but I understand the schemes and the ways in which everything works. Then why do you insist? For which reason you persist so much. In all that talk, you, I mean the whole opposition but here you are now on behalf of the promoter. What is the point of this, and what message do you send to the Croatian public?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22327	So it's very simple. We want to see who's in favor of investigating things, to see where the problems are inside the system, and who's afraid of the truth. And we could already see it today in this debate. And I'm glad to see, that fellow Boric of the new HDZ means he supported us from the opposition today at the end of the debate and us from this new MOST also without the orange color and without this addition of independent lists that we have the support of this new HDZ that has nothing to do with Ivo Sanader. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22328	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22329	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd joke a little bit at the beginning if we could get a little cheery in these late hours. We were supposed to have a united discussion today at these two points. Why a united debate? Because as far as I know, and I don't know if Mr. Mamic is still in BiH and considering his position in BiH is very good. On the other hand, he ended up in BiH thanks to what we decided to sign on 40th to determine some things. I heard from former HDZ Minister that we have good laws. Right, we have good laws, most of them written by HDZ governments wrote them, absolutely uncut. According to God's "not stealing", corruption is forbidden in Croatia. And not only corruption and other crimes are banned and trade in influence, etc. We have good regulations, too. Where's the hollow? The cave is in their conduct. So something here is not right without us and Croatian citizens reading it in the paper. Whether it's enough to read the Penal Code, I think we all know how to read and write at least those who have finished primary school shouldn't be a special lawyer or have a judicial exam. Laws establishing Croatian privatisation were also written by lawyers. Some with a judicial exam might have, so we saw how privatisation ended in Croatia. It was a profession, but you know by whom, by order of politics. We do politics here. We make laws without further ado, but we make political views. This is 10 political questions, if we have an answer to one of them in the Penal Code and then an investigative commission instead of finding out it's in the Penal Code. Then where is he worried about it? There's 10 questions here. We don't like them, so we have most of them. So we have most of it, we have most of it that can paint, that can write the amendments and that can say not like this, apriors we reject. The perception of the public will be good for the opposition, it won't, it'll be good for the ruling, it won't. There will be poor perception in the Croatian state, in the Croatian government and in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22330	In the final debate is the first Green-left bloc representative club, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic. Fire her papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22331	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will first refer to some of the things that have been presented here, and they are incorrect and concern the law itself on investigating committees. We heard Mr. Boric say incredibly confident that the commission should deal with one question. The Law on Investigative Commissions clearly states that a series of issues to be addressed by the Commission, in the plurality, should be defined. We've got them here. We have one, one key goal, we have areas and we have a round of questions that will be dealt with by the investigative committee. Read, read in the law, and you will see. So, and it does not stand as many other things that are said here today, which can be understood that we do not need an investigative commission, because, as the prime minister said, institutions are doing their job. That's what the Prime Minister told us. The institutions are doing their job, there's no need for an investigative committee. So who else use that syntagma often? The institutions are doing their job. So the main castle, a friend, a colleague in the crime of Mr. Plenkovic, the mayor of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic. My colleague was supposed to be here with me today, but he is trying to be in the town hall of Tomislav Tomašević, trying to prevent the sale of the little family silver that Zagreb has left, which is trying to sell out because of the fact that the HDZ supported Bandic for years in the assembly, supported his megalomanic projects that always end with a triple figure of what was planned, among other things, the cable company, which supported his budget and which will now support his budget with a budget gap of more than billions of kuna for next year. And to stabilise the budget will raise his hand to sell nothing less than Zagreb, Paromlin and Gredelj, and that is, after they have raised his hand to privatise or what is now popularly called a public private partnership, and we know what it actually is, the public budget is funded and the private pockets are profited, part of Kvatrić or block Badel. So you raise your hand for the sale of huge parts of the city of Zagreb in order to stabilise the budget for the next year that you have destabilised along with Bandic, and you need that stabilisation because someone must, from somewhere, pay for all of those members that Bandic hired in the city administration and in Holding. And so this coalition has survived for years, he's been hiring your members, you're voting his budget, you're voting for projects that you know are corrupt. When it's proven to be corrupt, when the proceedings are initiated because of these, then you say you had nothing to do with it, and you conditioned the cableman, you had the ability to control him, you held the majority in that assembly. And you let what happened happen, get the minimum between 80 million and 100 million kunas out of the project. And that it puts the safety of the citizens at risk. So, when we talk about corruption, we're not just talking about the City of Zagreb, we're talking about corrupt cases all over Croatia, we're talking about JANAF here, we're talking about Krš-Pađen, we're talking about many other affairs, many of them dating back to the last decade and they're not finished yet. They're not finished because what the Prime Minister says isn't true. Institutions cannot do their jobs especially in political corruption-related affairs because there are apparent obstructions of information leaks and illegalities in these procedures. And when it's finally wanted to be investigated, when it's finally based on this investigation they want those holes legislatively and institutionally solved, then you say it can't. And okay, yeah, you have most of it. Now you have most of them here. But what you told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia today not to answer the questions that have been bothering them for 30 years will cost you the majority of them. We won't give you Zagreb, we'll take it back from your hands and Bandic's hands, and then we'll release the rest [[Intruder: Time.]] Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22332	This isn't the county council. You don't need to send us those messages. The next final debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marija Jelovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to try to finally sublime all the views of the HDZ Club. First of all, I would only like to refer to the incorrect quote of my colleague Bencic, who has now presented again in this final presentation in front of her club. Article 3 of the Law on Investigative Commissions states that an investigative commission is established by a decision of the Assembly on each specific issue for which a special investigation committee is established. So, we have repeated this several times today, and that is why we believe that the way it was proposed here in the motion for a decision has been set too wide because all the questions that you have raised that you want the investigative committee to investigate have been raised too wide. And the question is, in general, that the investigation committee needs to investigate all the documentation related to such wide-ranging issues, and the field of research where we have seen that some 10 institutions are covered, and it also needs to examine all those who have knowledge of all these issues, even question whether it would be possible to do so within 6 months, which is the maximum working time of the investigating committee, because so wide-ranging issues and areas you have actually done in a way that you have not asked a specific, specific subject but a phenomenon, because corruption, here you are today, all the time talking about corruption as a phenomenon in Croatian society. Therefore, HDZ does not deny the problem of corruption in society, nor have we ever done so. We therefore believe that corruption should be fought and we are constantly doing so in the continuity of the adoption of laws and anti-corruption measures. So, my colleague Bošnjakovic has also stated here that all the laws since the amendments to the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, since the adoption of the Law on State Law on Access to Information, the State Judicial Council, the adoption and in fact the establishment of a Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, the adoption of the Law on the right to access to information and x other laws, thus proving that we want to systematically fight this phenomenon, but we cannot in this way put into question the investigative commissions that will first question the trio of the authorities that are also the basis of the Constitution for the rule of law. On the other hand, on such a broad scale, we cannot agree to the questions raised because in this way we will not actually get answers or solutions to the problem of corruption in society. We need to understand that the system is set up, within all these institutions there are, therefore, and are foreseen by law the ways in which all those who conduct certain processes are supervised. We here as parliamentarians as representatives of the legislative authority have that possibility when we receive reports from both the judicial authority and the state's attorney's office we have the possibility to question whether they are doing well, we have the possibility of proposing. They also have the opportunity when submitting a report to point out shortcomings in the legislative framework. And we are then based on these reports in a position to seek better legislative solutions. The purpose of setting up investigative committees is precisely to explore those issues that are not, certain issues that are not covered by some procedure, and the public's interest in them is very high. I didn't hear here today that there is one object that you cited him for which he wasn't processed and for which we should go through this investigative committee to find out some facts. In the way you set things up, we'd be investigating, we should probably collect all the paperwork here, and I don't know how many years back and from the courts and from the DORH and from the USKOK, and then as auditors, read it, check it out. Because if you don't think of a specific object I don't know in which way you were going to determine. Because you need to determine a legal breach in relation to something. So for that reason, we think this isn't really justified. What I would also like to point out is that your proposal that, in the investigation committee, in fact, most of them are opposition representatives points out that you want to go through this investigatively [[Intruder: Time.]] The commission actually judge. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22334	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22335	Thank you. Article 238 was injured because the esteemed representative insulted us, so we lied a few times about whether there should be one question or more. Here, I'm going to read you a specific article now. The proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee must contain a definition of public interest, we have set it, the research goal is this one question of what the research goal is, the scope, after which the research area we are also citing by the institutions said and then [[Intruder: Time.]] a series of questions that will be covered by research. [[Intruder: Timed out.]] Round of questions, ma'am, read in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22336	So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica and you have a warning. The next final debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22337	Regrettably, pathetic and pathetic that no one before us from the Croatian government came from the Croatian government to talk about the proposal of 40 parliamentary deputies, about the seriousness of the Croatian government and how much they hold to the dignity of parliamentary democracy and that Andrej Plenkovic is introducing dictatorship in fear of his means insinuating fear into his majority because I can't believe that no one came from the government's representatives. My colleagues and colleagues, is it correct of the government of the Republic of Croatia that no one came, you supported them, so your responsibility is no one came to such a significant and important topic. And not only that, you've made everything very quality, very quality. You're the president of the club not to broadcast this, because this people don't listen, the people have chosen us here for nothing. No one's transmitting, maybe some kind of private television, we're talking about a public service. What are the reasons to throw this under the carpet, to hide this. And of course you're laughing in our faces. But it's not democracy. One day there will be opposition the other, the opposition will be ruling and I think we are in democracy and vice versa. So you can't crash democratic achievements, you've brought down here in a meeting in the last term when you've abolished the meaning of the right to speak to parliamentary deputies by amending the Rules of Procedure, you've limited the number of replicas, the number of breaks that Parliamentarians can present independently on the subject of certain problems in the area where they come from. And today, when we are discussing this important issue, there is no government representative, and there is a closed public and media space, a public service. You're successful at it, but it's not good for democracy, it's dictatorship, it's elements of dictatorship. In Parliament, we have no right to introduce a dictatorship. And what the opposition requires, or 40 parliamentary deputies, is to be discussed. The fact that the measures are being breached, that's the fact that the measures are being breached, and that was the key to the Krsh-Pared case. That was the case, but it's not just there. But you take responsibility if you do not want to support this commission as parliamentary representatives of the majority. It's the role of Parliament's representative. So what are we here, what have the people chosen us for? Why does the people pay me travel expenses from Sinj to here? What am I? If you were to shut down all public channels, not on television, of course, you wouldn't tell Croatian television to hear the voice of the representatives elected by the people, so let's say that you don't want to. And once again, it's extremely embarrassing for this tall home from which the Croatian government comes that no one is from the government's representatives, but it's a fellow member of Boric's purpose. You resist laughing, that's the most important thing to you, but it's not democracy, it's the elements of dictatorship. No matter how much you agree with me, I don't know from other political options. And once again, the opposition is she, regardless of the worldview, of what, ideological views indicate that the opposition cares about what citizens ask of them. To make suggestions and that's also a problem for you regardless of the ideological world view or I don't know what other differences. The role of the opposition is to make everything possible for the government to do better, to work better and better for our citizens. It's an interest. And so the opposition has given a large number of amendments in the case of the budget, and you, on this proposal, have no amendment, and you have a majority, so put the amendments on this, make some proposals. You may have some better things, but you have nothing. But when we make constructive proposals, legislative initiatives, amendments to the budget or any other very significant documents, you reject them. But I'm telling you, my colleague Boric, you're gonna have to yell out of the bench, you're taking no responsibility for non-functioning, for breaking the measures that are going to happen because you didn't do anything as a parliamentary agent. You left that to who? We seem to have great, excellent laws. Well, we prescribe laws every day, we're out of control, they're probably the best laws in the world, but they don't. There are no laws. And once again, it's a shame that no government official is, and it's a shame what you are, public channels. The entire Croatian television closed targeted so that the people could not see or hear this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22338	Last final debate on behalf of the SDP Club, Honorary Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, article, one of the first articles, and I think it's Article 2. The law on investigative committees states that the investigation committee is established on grounds of public interest issues, and in particular now says the first fundamental values of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and we will agree that the rule of law is one of the fundamental values set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Second, the fundamental freedoms and rights of man and citizen from Chapter III of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the right to a fair trial or to legal judicial proceedings is one of the fundamental freedoms and rights of man and citizen of Chapter III of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, the legality of the work of the state authorities and public services and the legal persons of public law, and the question of which is therefore the determination of the legality of the work is also contained in this proposal. So this proposal is a school example of how the proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee should look so far as it should be studied in colleges. So, everything as it says in Article 2. The law on investigative committees. Of course we're here in a vicious circle. When a proposal for an investigative committee is put in place for a specific matter, then do everything possible to stop the work of the investigating committee, and when it is done broadly, it is too wide. I think we should establish a semi-examinational, semi-communication so that it's neither too wide nor too specific, and that's where we'd find the comments. So when the idea of an investigative committee came to light, the author, the author of this idea was Nikola Grumoja, and the colleagues from We can make a great contribution to making a proposal for a decision, and all the opposition parties, what you like to say is a coalition of yellow, green, red, black, and I don't know which devils end, far left, far right, so she managed to agree on this text, this decision. All the questions raised here were raised in their respective rhetorical locks by the president of the state and the Prime Minister. Who knew, when he knew, was he supposed to know, why should he know, why shouldn't he know, who he was where he was, who he wasn't where he was, who he was still from who he wasn't? Therefore, all of this was covered at the moment when this proposal was decided, when this proposal was addressed. So it corresponded somewhere with the beginning of the Janaf affair. In fact, even the Colloquial media said it was an investigative commission in the JANAF affair, so we had to convince that there would be no Janaf affair because it could not be established an investigative commission. This was one chance unfortunately seems to have been missed to determine that the title, the title of the decision, says the determination of interference, disabling and other illicit influences on independent investigations including the stage of reconnaissance and the processing of cases of organised and economic crime. So, this is one of these, so this was one attempt to increase and restore citizens' trust in institutions that had been violated to a greater extent before, but especially during the affair, the Janaf affair when it was obvious that, that there were certain these distractions, disablings and other illicit influences on independent investigations and it was good to talk among other things not to the current state attorneys or judges, but to exes who have some experience and can help and give some answers that the public is interested in, and they are, they're, they're under oath. I'd like to finish my final presentation now, and I'd like to vote on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22340	Did you sign up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22341	If they don't want any of their colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22342	Did you sign up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22343	And that's just so as to speak on behalf of the promoter, if you want to replicate that you can lift my line. Yeah. I have nothing else to say except what I said, so if you don't want me to end this preliminary presentation and goodbye and thank you for your cooperation. [[It's not going to replicate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-08-0.u22344	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow at 9:30 The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government with a final draft of the law. Session adjourned at 20.39 p.m.
