ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u2	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u3	Thank you fellow Members and colleagues, and it is a great honor to actually get acquainted with this programme of mandates and future governments, I have found in a quick reading, memory and conclusion that we are actually continuing the continuity of a government that has not been successful and that we Croatian sovereigns have, in recent years, and as activists and as a political party, indicated that they are not doing their job well and that we are going to go to elections, election campaign and thank God, thanks to our voters, voters, have come to the opportunity to publicly point out what that government has not done well, and as we see in the programme that it will not do well. First of all, it is a frantic fact that all forms of security, social security, etc. are being discussed in that pledoaje, however, the key foundations of legal certainty are only put into one argument later. So, what is devastating and why young people are leaving our country not only because they are open borders as Mr. Prime Minister Plenkovic has repeatedly pointed out, but rather as our research has shown, they are leaving because the young are discouraged because of corruption, injustice, unfairness in terms of their own perspectives of the future, family perspectives. All that means is this legal certainty that in many hundreds of thousands of pressures, in fact, a large number of our citizens. With corruption here we have completed, blocked, there we have people who are criminally inaction by our institutions, and by the constitution they are obliged to be in their protection, from the CNB, from constitutional courts, from courts, have actually become prisoners, hostages of one of our government's unhappiness in recent years, so we have a disastrously difficult situation both with regard to the Swiss franc and with regard to our dismayed by other actually unprotected citizens who are practically becoming financial slaves. That is what our government, our mandater, is not enough to talk about or talk about some floscules, about the executive law that has already been passed for 4.5 years and has never been established by anyone in procedural form to comply with European standards, with the recommendations and the European Court of Human Rights, the EU Commission, which in this case is neglected. Also, reading these parts of good wishes, good wishes, for example, around the Croatian Defence Ministry, which is certainly good news that it remains as such, separately, and let us, our minister has hired the role of Deputy Prime Minister, however, we have here, not only problems that my fellow MPs Mlinarić and many others have pointed out, counterpart Zekanovic. We have a problem at stake where I don't even believe that many of you know it, it may not be your area of interest, but our dear friends, war fighters, unhappy, Serbian concentration camps campers, unfortunately despite the International Court's ruling in The Hague, despite certain agreements, commissions between our country of Croatia and Serbia, especially after the '96 Storm. Mr., then, in some other atmosphere, they did not exercise any rights in relation to their victim, in their position of sacrifice which they undoubtedly suffered in the area of the Republic of Croatia as campers, as prisoners of war, and they, in fact the Croatian state raised their hands in a way that made it impossible for them to have systematic protection in view, they were directed in fact to their private, in fact their own, their own, warlike trauma in front of Serbian state courts [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Privately realized and dadaca [[Thank you very much.]] They lose those disputes, and here they are. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] They're exposed to more financial... [[Intruder: Yes, I ask you not to...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u4	We're way out of time. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Please, let's all stick to the weather. [[Intruder: Cheers.]] Here we will now move to a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives according to your application and the first club of representatives will be the bridge of independent lists in which the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues please take your seats, who wants to stay, who doesn't want to leave so that counterpart Miletic can present what he wants on behalf of the club. Here's a colleague of Miletic's. I ask the others not to interfere with the speaker's speech as it was just before, so I ask you to let your colleague Miletic speak what he wants to say. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u15	Respected to all of you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday we took the oath, we said "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." I would like to look specifically now at the part of our oath that says that we will take up all the progress of the Republic of Croatia, more specifically the Law on Air Protection in my article. 2. lists EU directives, but in accordance with Article 2. point 7. "The efficiency of air quality protection and improvement is ensured by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia". I must say, if we don't have a basic right to water and clean air how do we even talk about any other rights? Clean air, quality water, healthy food are fundamental to any story of the progress of our society. Yesterday, Commissioner Branko Bacic spoke about "Green Deal" The European Green Plan is a strategy for achieving the sustainability of the EU economy. The official programme of relevant institutions points out that the above will be achieved by turning climate and environmental challenges around all policy areas and ensuring a fair and inclusive transition. The foundation is, however, to enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live healthy rather than die from the diseases caused by their system, in this case the County Centre for Waste Management Mariščina. Citizens of the river ring, residents of Marcellj, Viskova, Kukuljana breathe, dear parliamentary representatives, toxic air, toxic air. There are three terrible things. First, the poisons in the air were discovered in February. Second, the public found out about this information in July. Who's responsible for hiding this data? Third, the struggle of the local population has been going on for nine years. In February, the School of Public Health found 116 chemical compounds only in one single location. The measured values of 12 compounds exceed the limit values and 5 of them are markedly carcinogenic chemical compounds, benzene, ethylenedichloride, ethylene oxide, formaldehyde, ethylene glycol and monomethylether. To the Marches that are directly threatened is a distance of 1200 meters. Dear people, over the hill there is a source of river and on that source the river is supplied with drinking water all over the region of Rijeka, the city of Rijeka. The club of the representatives of MOST, our expert team for environmental protection, asks the relevant institutions for the emergency closure of Mariščina in order to endanger the lives of people and ecosystems in that area. The launch of a public tender for waste taking over, which otherwise comes to Mariščina, estimated the amount of 100,000 tonnes of waste per year. 2015 and '16. the garbage vehicle at the price of 505.00 kn per tonne, and the estimated price today is 900 kuna. These steps will remove biodegradable municipal waste from Marišcina, which is a component of waste that chokes people. In this way, more useful waste raw materials will be separated and more dangerous waste can be better identified. Plasman of the same market is far cheaper than, listen now, 1,180 kuna per tonne, as soon as people will have to pay, this is amazing. Call an emergency public tender for the taking of waste that otherwise comes to Mariscino, urgently at the level of cities and municipalities in the Primorje-Goran County to make new decisions on municipal waste management, in which it will be clear that biodegradable municipal waste must be collected separately and locally composted. Ask the European Commission to change technology in Mariščina, but also in other centres, thank you for paying attention, and for the re-use of the funds obtained and the release from the penalty, and for the next 2nd g. define adequate technology and apply it in Mariščina and report the project to the European Court of Auditors. Dear people, therefore, are vital information that the Municipal Council of Viskova was two years ago. made a decision on the closure of Mariscina, the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County has now done the same. It is decided by the competent ministry to prevent further poisoning of people and ecocids coming from Mariscina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u16	Thank you. Next from the MPs is the Homeland Movement on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivan Penava will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u28	Dear MPs, we listened to Mr. Plenkovic's mandate with an explanation of the government's plans and work programme in the future and indeed a lot of what he said, can take off the mask, thank you, a lot of what he said is nice to hear. I believe that many of us would have signed it, I would have really signed a lot, however, listening to it closely get the impression that he is talking to all of us from the position of the man who, for the first time now, is moving into his term for the first time, the first day, and as if he had not had the opportunity to do so all the boredom, many of those he talked about, influence them and improve them. And it's really nice to hear the story of new jobs, the story of the Croatian village, the story of demographics, the story of how we're going to advocate researching war crimes, we've even heard one topic that surprised us, which is that it will also devote itself to researching the traumatic parts of the past of the Croatian people. However, all of this was done by Mr Plenkovic as president of the Croatian government, the last Croatian government had a chance to influence it, I will not say that he did not give the best he could, but the results are as they were, we touched them in one part yesterday, and we are constantly in one situation where we have so much praise, so much self-esteem, so here we have listened to the concrete actions that were taken in the area of demographics, but when we touch facts like that they will be cruel to someone, and let's say we take an example of the number of newborn children we passed, past, or yesterday a few of us simply mentioned that all these measures do not give the desired effect. Similarly, the prime minister who will be very likely to do so is constantly talking about billions of people in the new term, talking about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, saying how much he helped Vukovar, so it would be worth deciding not to have the wrong noises that actually measured success. Because maybe both the Prime Minister and the Government thinks are super successful, but on the other hand, there's a lot of us who don't think they're that successful. So it should be clear what this measure of success was. So, if we're going to talk now and here's the clue to this 22 billion is it a success or not, is that the measure of success or not? Look, it's nice to get the money, if that's 22, if it's a lot, if it's small, if we could get more or less, I think it's on the trail of yesterday's debate on the number of MPs, or the number of ministers and ministries in the new government, I think it's much less important than how these ministries or how those billions will be used and what their effects will be. Unfortunately, the effects of the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, the effects of such special care on the city of Vukovar are devastating, are absolutely demographically devastationed space. One in my view is a criterion that should be crucial, which, by the way, should be managed by all of us by saying that we all have a good intention, I would like to be cited by which of the 5 Slavonian counties, due to the great success of investing in this area, which, according to the census of the population per year, will have a larger number of greenfield investments in the economy, which of these counties has become the place where people live, a place where they enjoy living. We will all agree that such counties in Slavonia unfortunately do not exist, and therefore the success of the story of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem success of this project comes under question and I think we will agree that this is not good enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u29	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of IP, Smart and Glass in the name of which they will speak respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm sorry you're not here anymore in the assembly. I speak on behalf of the first women's club in the history of the Croatian Parliament, we symbolically pointed to this fact today with several gifts to the President of the Parliament just to celebrate and mark this historic day. I personally and my colleagues from the club watch this place and this stage with respect because many good and brave people stood behind it and did not spread various ideas, tried to be constructive, calmed down, calmed down, built, called for reason, tried to build a normal moderate, polite country in which every citizen would feel good. There were other extremes, and here we hear them sometimes, but we're not gonna be very proud of them, we're hoping that we'll all hold on to it. My short speech today will be unusual, different from anyone you've heard so far, and it will be a speech in which you will hear strange words, words that will mark the future of your children and your grandchildren, so remember them, which is artificial intelligence, biotechnology, nanotechnology, quantum computing, space, black holes. You will hear the words of the veteran power plant, not as a symbol of corruption, but as a symbol of the technology of the future. We three women have done something that will remain recorded in Parliament's history, we have created the first female club in Parliament's history, and thus created an opportunity for us to spread our ideas better and more efficiently, and we have given hope that Croatia will become a more equal country in which citizens of all identities will get their chance to change the country. We are a club center, a club that shares the values of all modern liberal democracies, a club that doesn't seek any privileges or privileges just because we are women but we will fight from this stage and from this place for equality and equality of all citizens. Today most will probably vote the government, we will not support it because we honestly think that Croatia has no chance as long as it is managed by HDZ and satellites. That's why we have experimental evidence, Croatia is today a country that is at the bottom of Europe, and it used to be somewhere in the middle. We all thought we'd head for the top, but the irresponsible politicians took us to the bottom. In these days, the government is selling us euphoria, they have received 20 billion euros, and in their eyes, like in those cartoons, they turn dollars or euros because they see these money as means to continue with their clientelism, to love, to share money as drunk rich people and to continue with all the bad things they've done in the past. We're going to tear down the myths, and here's one we're taking down now. These 20 billion euros are not given to us, there is no free lunch, these are the money of our citizens of Europe who will collect through taxes and taxes. We will be happy only when we create a new 20 billion euros. Creating new values is the most important message of my speech, we will always and always talk about creating new values and creating new wealth. Every generation of politicians has a new opportunity to create, we have to take advantage of it, we have no alternative. Instead of crying over fate, instead of looking into the past, instead of just attacking and criticizing us, we will be an option that does not offer to complain about the past, although it can analyze these problems and put itself clearly around them, but an option that directs Croatia towards the solutions of the future. We want Croatia that my Dalmatia European World Centre of Renewable and Green Energy, Dalmatia, which has built the largest solar power plant in the world, Dalmatia where storms and south-east concepts are related to a generation of energy from wind power plants, not the concept of corruption, Dalmatia of strong sustainable tourism in which the best young experts from all countries of the world move in because they want to live with their families, work remotely with us to create a society of the future. This is Croatia in which Zagreb has used the European world centre of nanotechnology, quantum computing, Zagreb, which has used the tragedy of the 2020 earthquake to build a modern European metropolis of the 21st century, Zagreb which is proud of internationalism in which all people of good will, regardless of their appearance and identity, live in peace with others. Croatia where Istria and Kvarner are the European world center of the creative industry where scientists from around the world look at space and look for black holes. Croatia in which Lika, Kordun and Banija is a European world centre of green technologies in which its northern region, based in Varazdin, is a European world centre of artificial intelligence, Croatia in which our evicted children have returned and brought their friends to work together and create new values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u49	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u58	Dear MPs and MPs, I would like to say something about the state of the railways in Croatia, especially from the perspective that a lot of money from these EU funds that are now at our disposal, but from a new financial perspective, will be able to go to railway infrastructure and I believe that just the rail traffic is Croatia's future, especially for cross-city public transport. What needs to be said very clearly and loudly is that the situation in the Croatian railways or the state of the railway system is catastrophic. Croatia of all EU member states may also have the worst railways in Europe, especially if seen, for example, the percentage of the two-way railways that are only 10%. on the other hand, if you look at the electrification of the railway network, which is only about 37%. On the third hand, if passengers fall from 2008 to, for example, 2015 in passenger rail transport, it is the largest drop across the EU. We have a constant decline and we, we've had a long period of decline and passengers and burdens, something that's just started to get a little bit better, but when you look at it in the last 30 years, we've actually devastated the railroads. Railways which, since public transport is precisely the best transport in terms of environmental protection, the most comfortable public transport, should be the most reliable and as regards accuracy and all other indicators. We know how railways work, for example, in one Switzerland, which has the best rail system in the world. But of course it also costs from the investment perspective, and we did not invest in Croatian railways. We violated all of our traffic strategies in the 1990s and 2000s. Of all the traffic strategies where we have defined exactly how much of the traffic investment should go to the railways, we have done almost nothing at the end of it. And mostly these investments went, as you know, into a network of highways and yet on, we know and how they went, so that they painted tunnels multiple times and that taxpayers' money was lost and ended up in somebody's pockets, however, what was devastating, not only did we not invest in modernising the railway infrastructure, which almost the whole of this was built before the First World. War and let's give another piece of information, we only built the first new 20km railway line this year just after 60, 70 years. So for the first time in 60, 70 years we've built a new railroad and that's 20 kilometers. So, from that perspective, we can't go any further, I don't think that the situation, that cross-town transport only works on buses and that the thing is paradoxical, about buses of private bus companies, some of them, for example, one of the biggest companies is actually Arriva, who bought former private bus companies, Arriva, which is otherwise, to make things more crazy, owned by Deutsche Bahna, which is 100% owned by the German state. And just when Arriva came to the bus transport market in Slavonia, she suspended many lines as inert and asked the Croatian government to increase subsidies, i.e. PSO so-called. contracts. So now, are we subsidizing from our budget company owned by a German state-owned company that then pays its profits into the German budget. It is legitimate, but I wonder if it is a transport strategy, means cross-city public transport of Croatia or something else. I think it's something else and it has to be a modern transport system. From that perspective, it's good to go, use a good part of these funds to develop this railway infrastructure, but what I think is bad is the current institutional framework. We have a fully liberalised freight transport market, we have a partially liberalised passenger transport market, we have 3 companies, all 3 are state-owned. In 2012, one HZ firm has been completely fragmented that some countries have not made, precisely the most developed countries and with these 3 state-owned companies working against each other, each watching their own, has not even co-ordinated because HZ Holding has been abolished. In 2019, the law allowed HH Holding to return But that hasn't happened yet, and I hope that here soon will begin to develop the railway system in line with the 21st century. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u59	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u72	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The inauguration of the new government is always something that meets citizens with great expectations but it is also time to make an inventory of some of the problems that have been in the past term and that have not been resolved at all. One of the problems that perhaps 50,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not gone to the polls is the problem of being held captive in several-storey residential buildings of mostly older people, persons with disabilities, sick persons in multi-story residential buildings that have not been installed, and this is one size of one of my large hometowns, such a large city, so many of our citizens have been imprisoned in their apartments and depended on other people's help from any neighbour, any of their friends, any relatives, mostly in a very, very difficult situation, and simply they haven't seen the country for a very long time. In this field, 85% could be financed by the installation of elevators in the past term, i.e. in the past envelopes and EU funds opened by our Europarliamentary Biljana Borzana, nothing was done. Mr. Secretary. The regrettance did nothing, she promised some pilot project, and none of it was anything, although we brought her over 5,000 signatures from the tenant of the multi-story residential buildings that had the problem. After that, Minister Pavić also, our colleague here in the benches, has not done either "mu" or "b", nothing, but nothing. I'm asking you, how come some of you are asking me to commend Mayor Split for putting 20 lifts into multi-story residential buildings and providing funds in the budget? I have to tell you I don't understand anything. On the one hand, we can withdraw money, so 85% of the value of each elevator, each elevator from EU funds, and we want to build it up and show it as a charity from a budget filled with the taxpayers of certain cities. Do you see that logic? There we do nothing, we do not withdraw funds, the problem is that we could extract funds in that field somewhere in the value of the Pelješka bridge, which is a large asset, over 500 million euros, the need or assessment is that it can be installed in more than 9,000 entrances to residential buildings and everyone is silent. Are we thus proving that we are unable to run small projects worth 50,000 euros? So if, I ask you nicely to get the new government to consider this project. We have a new minister who obviously has experience at regional or county level in withdrawing funds from the EU. Maybe it's a good wind in the back that goes to realize a project like this because I'm sure one ministry with its infrastructure isn't too interested in a project worth 50,000 euros in which every screw and every queen and every cartoon on the project have to justify it. Too strict controls, but maybe some local companies at regional level, at the county level, where these problems are burning, I'm not saying that rural environments have to be burdened with this, but the urban environments, the big cities have this problem and I'm sure, their human and financial potentials to track it all, to apply to these projects, so let's make moves here, let's decentralize this problem, let's give it to the mother, let's give it to those who are interested in small projects, let's give and stimulate the production of these elevators, let's open up and let's not be strictly controlled society, inertically and not move on the offers that come to us. So there's money and we obviously, that's what we proved I don't know how to take. So take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u73	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the clubs. We'll take a short break by 14 hours and then we'll continue to discuss it, first on behalf of the clubs and later on by individual debate. Given the number of clubs reported and individual debates without replicas, I'm counting on us to finish by midnight. If there's a replica, then I guess 1, 2 or maybe later. Here it is, then we'll have two hours. The first in line is on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta esteemed representative Plasimir Troscott right behind. It's 1:00 P.M. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. It has already been mentioned 22 billion, which our prime minister so gloriously "bringed" from Brussels. However, I would like to draw your attention to some of the other problems we see in this. According to the data that has been extracted today from EUROSTAT with today's 23.7. cumulative eu payments in Croatia are 36% of what we predicted the multiannual financial perspective of the past period. Only comparisons for the European average are about 48%, and Croatia is here in the infamous last place. My colleagues and colleagues, if we assume on those 22 billion that we will be able to pull them all through projects, and we won't, because about half of them will be in the form of loans, if we assume that we can withdraw these 22 billion projects from the current average, we will withdraw a little more than 7 billion euros. That's far from what our prime minister is talking about. Therefore, when we talk about strengthening the project "Slavonia", which is what we are particularly concerned about, we cannot be satisfied here because colleagues and colleagues, the construction of social homes in our villages, the repair of roads, the construction of sewers in cities that lose their population are very nice things, but that is why no one will stay in Croatia, not because of the social home, not because of a better collector and not because of the improved road. The prime minister told us here that the government's business is not to interfere with private firms, their restructuring, their decision to do business, etc., and I absolutely agree. The market economy is like that. But what is the responsibility of the government is to create a business environment in which companies not only stay and beyond but also come new. Why did Croatia always fall on the Doing business list during the term of office of the last Plenkovic government? All the time? Why is the tax press on employers so big? Why is there a whole series of parafiscal duties, why is working in Croatia so expensive that some companies move to BiH and Serbia? And Croatia, I will remind you, an EU member, so from here everything they produce has a direct approach to the whole European market. And that's where we get to Slavonia and the Slavonia project. Are the results of the project Slavonia, shutting down a series of factories and companies in such already demographic, economic and social devastation of the Croatian region? The virovitic sugar shop closed several months ago, Maggle announced a departure that directly affected 160 workers and more than 300 co-operatives. That's where the state was wrong not to create the i.e. This government, which didn't create a business-incentive environment for these companies to stay here. And that's where we come up with this story about workers, workers and workers. A 55-year-old woman working at the Maggle plant will be out of a job. They'll meet literally on the street. It's falling into a hard-hitting category. What's she doing? What would the prime minister tell her to do in a secure Croatia where 22 billion euros are coming in? Will she have any interest in that? Will her children, who are and give dependent family members, benefit? These are questions to which we want answers, not to hear from this same worker and woman, saying she will go to Germany to follow the dishes with no idea how many decades but a job internship in Croatia, with children in Croatia, families in Croatia, she is forced into a safe Croatia, HDZ Croatia, to think about such a move. Any measures taken by the government, any strategies brought by the government, all the money coming to Croatia should be directed towards it. Don't talk about her personally now, I'm talking about workers and workers, I'm talking about the citizens of Croatia because they need first of all to benefit from it. And colleagues and colleagues, a social home in a village, a fixed road or sewerage won't keep this 55-year-old girl in Germany and I'm afraid not her children either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u114	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I'd like you to take your seats. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I'm asking you to take your seats so we can start working. I thank you for the gifts I received on behalf of the first women's club in the Croatian Parliament, thank you for that. So, in accordance with Rule 226 of the second Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 1st session of the Croatian Parliament with two new points: 1. Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant is the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic 1. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at these points of the proposal for supplementing the agenda have not been established that the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 1st session of the Croatian Parliament. In addition, today at 13 o'clock we'll have a club stand or a free speech, so between 13 and 14 o'clock means we'll have that, then there won't be a debate of this, who's going to be in the assembly, who doesn't want to have time for a break. We would vote after the debate on the government's representation and the vote of confidence was concluded. After that, it would be a short break for the Mandate-Immunity Commission meeting in order to put a part of the MPs on the stand and to see new MPs who would also take the oath and also make a decision in accordance with the agreement that I, which was announced by the representatives of the opposition clubs. So today we will also vote on colleague Glavasevic as vice president of the European Affairs Club. It'll be at the end of the day then. I'd just like to talk to you just a little bit before we start the debate, and I'll let you know how I see it next week. So, tomorrow, if everything goes according to plan today, if the government gets the trust of the Croatian Parliament, the government would have its first session from which the proposal for a Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and that point would be discussed on Tuesday next week, so I would ask only the competent authorities of the Assembly, committees, to conduct a debate on Monday's law, so on Monday, that we could then discuss the point on Tuesday. On Wednesday, a report by the Prime Minister on a meeting of the European Council would cover the Croatian Presidency report. For this we need the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, so I would ask until Tuesday that the Committee on European Affairs hold its session. And on Thursday, we'd have laws related to finance and the confirmation of some international contracts, so that's where we need the Finance Committee. I'm asking you to hold your session by Wednesday as well. The vote would be Friday next week. Every day, of course, we'd have a free speech. The first day of work in the week, Tuesday, that would be 9:30 and the rest of the day at 13:00. Here, this was the information we now move to the point: - Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u774	I thank Mr. President on behalf of the SDP Club for asking for a break of an hour so we can study the Government Programme because we got it 49 minutes ago. Well, that hour would be exactly twice the time we've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u775	Thank you. I'll approve the apartment, but we'll see what duration. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u776	Well, also on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, I'm looking for an hour's break. We also received the Government Programme 40 minutes ago by mail, and I must admit that, to me, this is the first parliamentary term but compared to the City of Zagreb City Assembly where the materials usually come 15 days earlier, it comes almost 15 minutes before the Government Programme which has 50 pages, and this is the Government Continuity seems problematic to me as a practice and I would like it no longer to be repeated. As far as I know, it seems to me that she and the government of Oreshkovic had sent this programme a day earlier, so I really don't see why we got it 40 minutes earlier than we should be discussing it as parliamentary representatives. And for that reason, to get to know that program too, I'm asking for an hour's rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u777	Okay. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u778	Thank you, Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, the reasons are the same. Since this programme of the government is a list of beautiful desires, copycats from pre-election programmes of HDZ where it is completed and blocked, I would say, three, three sentences, where key problems and structural reforms in the Republic are devoted to very little space and where no clear deadlines are given when and in what time frame it will be implemented, and now this is sent to us as an opposition to emails half an hour before this session that we cannot even get to know that programme, that we cannot prepare for discussion, we are certainly ready, but we are looking for a certain time to see which, which are the shortcomings of this programme, even though we have seen many shortcomings in this little time, we therefore want to consult within the club and look for a break of an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u779	Okay. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u780	... Here, on behalf of the Women's Club Party with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, we're also looking for a break of at least an hour so that this program we got here just before the beginning of this session can be studied and quality prepared for discussion. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I expect this kind of serious thing to require, so an hour is a minimum in which we could analyse and prepare a quality debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u781	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u782	Dear President, also in front of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I request an hour's rest for further consultations on the programme we have recently received. Although I must stress here, the programme is actually the name of this coalition, and the name of this coalition is HDZ and SDSS, so that everything this government has done in this combination of HDZ-SDSS and the Croatian-Serbian coalition, it will continue to work, nothing has changed, but I think it is rude just minutes before the start of the session to deliver the programme. It will be the same attitude about protecting lives as it has been before. Unfortunately, even after the term of office and this government will be the last place for development in the EU, so it is actually too much to watch the programme, but simply because of the arrogance of the ruling, because of the last second's programme, we are looking for a break so that we can consult further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u783	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u784	Thank you. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I also support what other clubs have asked for, we support taking a break for at least an hour, but I would also like to stress that this is not a good practice, it is not right for opposition parties and clubs to get the program half an hour before the meeting. On the other hand, it is your undeniable right to vote the trust of the government by building your majority in the assembly, but so trust in a government in which the opposition parties would not participate at all, and it may happen that after this hour-long break, we agree that we will not participate in any further debate at all, I don't think that we should do so to most, and with such actions you push the opposition towards that exit door, I don't think that's wise, and that's why I'm asking for at least an hour's break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u785	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u786	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break so that we can once again point out and say a few words about this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this programme submitted by the mandater is a programme, a winning programme of HDZ called the Safe Republic. The programme is complemented by the views, projects and programmes of our coalition partners. I must say that we have communicated this programme in the election campaign daily in numerous dealings with our colleagues here at HS and that this programme of the Safe Republic has been recognised by our fellow citizens and given the HDZ great trust, and therefore I am even more surprised that the MPs who were in this election campaign are only now exploring the programme that won the parliamentary elections. I therefore believe that there has been plenty of time to get acquainted with the HDZ programme because this is the government that came out of these election results, which is mainly representatives of the HDZ with our coalition partners. So here's what I want to point out is that it's certainly been enough time for them to get to know this program, and I'm primarily seeing this as one performance, not a serious complaint about the delivery of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u787	Okay. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u788	So, injury art. 238. Comrade Bačić, don't insult the intelligence of the MPs. If this is a HDZ programme, you should have sent us this programme of governments before, but this is not just the HDZ government, this is the SDSS government, this is the national minority government, this is the HNS government, this is the reformist government. Is any of their program in? In this government program? [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grumoja]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u789	Thank you, but this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica, so please don't do that. You're looking for a replica? You can't ask for a replica. ... [[Intruder: Yes]] What? ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can do that. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u790	Dear President HS, you have announced through the media that you are seeking the constructiveity of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u791	Tell me which article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u792	Art. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u793	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u794	Choose whichever one you need. It has been said for days that the Republic of Croatia is in a difficult situation, that we have a difficult and bitter autumn, we are looking for good and quality solutions. If you think this is the way to submit documentation at the last minute is a good basis for quality discussion In the interest of all Croatian citizens, you have failed your mission. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u795	My colleague Oreshkovic, you have now injured the Rules of Procedure, I will not be giving any warning today because you are new but please do not use the breach of the Rules of Procedure for what is a replica. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u796	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic injured Article 238 because he found that the opposition could receive 2 minutes before the meeting of a programme of government that follows in 4 years. This pamphlet you sent us if it was a program, then you could send it to the constitution. All the governments have been colleagues for at least 24 hours, sending MPs the program, and you're making fun of voters and MPs here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u797	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much. So, just one explanation. Yesterday this law was passed, so it couldn't come but yesterday night, that's one thing, it didn't come in the evening, it came in the morning, but that's why there's a presentation of the programme that will be by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister at this point and you'll be able to listen to what the mandater has to say, and besides, you've all already reported it, so I assume you've also studied the program if you applied for the word. Here you go, Comrade Bauk. You reported the same damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u798	Yeah. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. Article 119(2) A Rules of Procedure, which says the prime minister, with a request for a vote of confidence, delivers a programme of government and life. So not the election program. It came to us today, that you had an election program, that you went to elections, but what we're voting on, it's today, it's not this party state that your program is, Your name, your program and documents. [[Don't throw it away, please.]] So let's go through the procedure, let's read a little bit and get back to the session within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u799	Thank you. All right, here we go. We'll continue the session at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes, so in 15 minutes. First they'll be speaking to the prime minister and then you can perform on behalf of the clubs. At 10.35, it's a sequel. It's 10.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:37 A.M.]] Allow me to remind myself in the shortest lines of the constitutional position and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government exercises executive power and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic shall form an art. 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entrusts the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who is the basis for the distribution of seats in HS and for the conduct of consultations enjoys the trust of most MPs. According to Art. 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the members of the Government a person who has entrusted the Prime Minister with the mandate for the composition of the Government. The term of office immediately after the formation of the government and no later than 30 days after the date of adoption of the mandate is due to the government and the government's programme as a whole to present it to the Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence. I will now ask the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to address the representatives. So I'd just like to ask you to, what, hold a plate with a replica in the air for your colleague to see you, to register you. Also, I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues who are at the galleries to wait for them to register, and then we'll put them all in. Okay. Dear Prime Minister, please present members of the future government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u801	The Honorable President of HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. I have the honour to welcome you at the beginning of the session of the 10th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and to present the programme of the 15th Croatian Government. First of all, I would like to congratulate all MPs and MPs for getting the trust of Croatian citizens, who are all committed to the honorable and responsible advocate of the interest of Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the next 4 years. Responsible because today when we prepare to mark the 25th anniversary of military regular operation Storm and victory in the Homeland War, Croatia is again at a particularly demanding moment in its history. Croatian citizens took up their share of responsibility when they chose a safe future in the HS elections two weeks ago, giving broad support to HDZ to lead the parliamentary majority with partners and the government in the next 4 years. He commits to support, and now this is our responsibility to successfully manage both those predictable challenges and those unexpected crises ahead of us. The whole world today faces the biggest health crisis in the last 100 years, and there is hardly a country not affected by a coronary pandemic for which there is no cure or vaccine yet. Over the past six months, more than 15 million people around the world have been ill, 620 thousand have already lost their lives. On the contrary, the pandemic accelerates every day, we have a quarter of a million more infected and more than 5,000 dead. In Croatia over 4.5 thousand people have been infected so far, over 3200 recovered, but unfortunately, 125 of our fellow citizens have lost their lives and I want to express my compassion with their loved ones. I also want to welcome all health care professionals, doctors, nurses, as well as other services that fight daily to save every life, where we should give them credit as a community and be grateful. The pandemic will still be with us, so we need to remain responsible, to learn to live with the virus together, not allowing it to endanger our lives and our economy. Only together with relying on the profession and science can we successfully survive this demanding time and ensure Croatia's economic recovery. Many of our fellow citizens suffer the severe consequences of this sudden crisis that threatens thousands of jobs and the survival of many companies. This is why the government has taken strong measures over the past months to stand behind Croatian workers and entrepreneurs and to secure salaries for more than 600,000 employees and liquidity for more than 100,000 employers, and we have therefore preserved jobs and most of our companies and crafts. But given the uncertain autumn that has been waiting for us for months and even years ahead, it will be necessary to find new measures in order to do everything in our power to preserve health and life, but every job because behind each job is the fate of a family. We will continue to support employers because they are the backbone of the Croatian economy and there are no jobs without them. According to the data available now, we estimate that in this year we will suffer an economic downturn of about 10% compared to last year, which speaks enough about the seriousness of the moment we are in. But thanks to all the measures taken, as well as the partial tourist season which, unlike many European countries, we still manage to launch, we expect a strong recovery of the economy at a rate above 6% next year. According to EU Commission estimates, we could grow by even 7.5% in 2021 to achieve the second highest growth rate in the EU behind Greece. In this respect, the government's priority will be to make full use of these funds as an additional strong leverage for economic recovery after the European Council and the negotiated 22 billion euros from the new multiannual financial framework and the EU's next generation recovery programme. According to our estimates in the next multiannual framework or budget 2021-2027. Croatia should have 12.7 billion euros at its disposal primarily for balanced regional development, rural development, agriculture and fisheries as well as for transport, the environment, digitisation, science, research and competitiveness of the economy. In addition, only for next generation recovery measures will we have an additional 9.4 billion euros at our disposal by the end of 2024. The total is 166 billion kuna or more than one year's state budget or at the level of foreign exchange revenues from even two tourist seasons. Loans on the world's most favourable market interest are those on which the EU is in charge. We want to use these funds first to preserve jobs, ensure a rapid recovery of the economy, and also invest in the transformation of our economy so that Croatia will be more resistant to any crisis in the future. In fact, this crisis has revealed all the vulnerability of European economies and so is Croatia and it is therefore important to learn all the lessons and turn this challenge into a historic opportunity for the transformation of Croatia, our society and our economy. In addition, on 22 March Zagreb and its surroundings were hit by a devastating earthquake that damaged 25,000 houses and buildings, and it brought down many of them without their home and without being able to live as before. Therefore, we have both a demanding and expensive challenge for the long-standing reconstruction of the Croatian capital. Tomorrow, at the first session of the government, if we get your trust, we'll pass the bill and direct it to the first reading next week. I remind you that the estimated damages are 11.5 billion euros. Respect for MPs and MPs, bearing in mind all these challenges, the government programme that I present to you today will be the foundation and guidance for building a safe Croatia. We are aware that due to the current uncertainty, many of our fellow citizens are afraid of losing their jobs or losing their wages, wondering whether their company, crafts or production will survive or end up in bankruptcy. All this causes great economic and social uncertainty, which particularly affects the most vulnerable among us, the elderly, the powerless and the sick, persons with disabilities, single mothers employed by certain or self-employed, young people looking for first or stable jobs, farmers who cannot sell their products and many others. All of them need support, and Croatia as well as 30 years ago, with determined leadership, should show responsibility, solidarity and unity. It's the only way we're going to get back the optimism, the elan and the citizens' faith in a safer future. It's the only way we're going to defend ourselves effectively against the virus, the only way we're going to get back to the path of economic growth, is if we can live a normal life again without the sight of ordinary handling. Therefore, as Government every day, we will fight decisively for the health security of our citizens, for their safe jobs, safe salaries and peace, for safe families and demographic revitalisation, for safe food and the environment, for safe living and safe borders, for safe economic recovery and for the safe age of our pensioners and for the safe future of our young people. Dear MPs and MPs, today Croatia defends itself in the field of health and social security of our citizens, on the issues of the demographic survival of our country and our people, the better standard of living and the more perspective of our families and young people, the achievement of self-sufficiency in agriculture and energy, the building of a more sustainable economy and a more efficient public administration, and the achievement of a stronger international position in Croatia. These are the challenges our programme offers solutions and will respond to policies based on the concept of new sovereignty, based on the empowerment of the state and the economy and the effective use of Croatian influences in the EU above all, to promote national interests and the quality of life of all Croatian citizens. Our first task is to ensure social security for our citizens because it is a prerequisite for the development of a modern society in which everyone has the right to quality health care, social solidarity, equality and equal opportunities. The crisis we are facing today has highlighted the need to strengthen and modernise the health system, so we will invest three billion kunas in modernising the health system and health care, we will build a national children's hospital in Zagreb and revitalise the Immunological Institute. Social security also means a secure job, which is why we will continue with policy so far and invest 10 billion kunas to create a stimulating environment for the creation of 100,000 new jobs. An important measure will also be the grants of 130,000 kuna to any young person who starts with a business idea project. By the end of the term of office, we aim to raise the average net salary to 7600 kuna in the whole country and to raise the minimum net wage to at least 4.250 kuna. By continuing to implement the pension reform, we will ensure the sustainability of the pension system, and for a dignified age, we will increase pensions by at least 10% and expand the circle of pensioners who can and want to work. Social security has certainly the right and most vulnerable among us and we will continue to include persons with disabilities in the labour market and society, and we will also bring a new strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion. In agreement with our partners, we will bring an operational programme to improve the quality of life and position of national minorities in Croatia. They were and will be our partners because we want to build an inclusive and tolerant society that shares both national and universal values. Another of our tasks is to ensure a perspective for our people at the time of the 4 industrial revolution. Especially young people and economies that need to be competitive and based on a demographic vital and educated society. This involves gradually moving to new and clean technologies because they create the greatest added value, new jobs and have proved to be resistant to external shocks. The prospective future also assumes a continued increase in available citizens' income to raise living standards. Therefore, we will reduce the income tax rate from 24% to 20%, or 36% to 30, and to companies with an annual income of up to 7.5 million kuna, which are also hit hard in this crisis, we will reduce the profit tax rate from 12% to 10%, which will include 110,000 companies and 93% in Croatia. For all food, we will also lower the VAT rate from 25% to 13%, continue education reform and digitalisation will be strengthened in education in order to prepare for future jobs by ensuring the quality and continuity of youth education and to encourage investment in research and development. We will invest 5 billion kuna in modernising the education system, continue to improve the position of educational staff and provide 50,000 student socio-economic and STEM scholarships. In the development of new industries, we will take care of better integration of production, products, markets and users through digital technologies. We will invest 5 billion kuna in innovation, entrepreneurship and new products for the digital transformation of industry, the development of creative industries and export increases, and we will increase investment in research and development from 1% to 2.5% of GDP so far. We will continue to invest in even regional development. We will launch the project Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, Banovina and Gorski Kotar worth 2 billion kuna and further strengthen the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, as well as the development of the island and northern Croatia. With education and transformation of the economy, demographic revitalisation is a strategic issue for Croatia's future. We will continue to work to reverse negative demographic trends and create a stimulating environment for the return of Croatian emigrants. We will provide parental benefits in terms of full pay, reform the system of compensation for children with the aim of increasing it and more fair distribution. We will subsidise 20,000 housing loans for young families and provide extended work in another 200 kindergartens. We will regulate trade on Sundays and allow workers to spend it with their families and continue to promote equality between women and men in society, in the labour market and in the family. Care of our cultural identity, protection of heritage, support for creation and creative industries, promotion of Croatian culture and art in country and world, and international cooperation remain our permanent tasks. We will pass new whole laws on cultural financing and performing artistic activities as well as new law on theatres. We will ensure that support measures are extended for those cultural activities that will have to function in a changed form for a longer period of time due to the epidemic. In order to further achieve top results, but also to promote healthier life, we will work on developing all forms of sport including top-notch and recreational sports, sports for people with disabilities and sports in the education system. Our third task is to strengthen Croatia's economic sovereignty by bringing self-sufficiency to food and energy production. The disturbances in the supply chain in the globalized economy caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus have led us to this necessity. Our new model of development should therefore be sustainable and based on the production of domestic and organic farmed food at the transition to low-carbon and renewable energy sources and on the preservation of our natural resources and environment for future generations. A special role in self-sufficiency and export increase should be played by the Croatian village, and the development of a circular economy should improve our management of waste that should become a resource, not a cost. In addition to continuing the low-carbon energy transition, we will contribute to the fight against climate change that is a threat to both our agriculture and our coastal areas. Therefore, we aim to increase our agricultural production by 30% to 22 billion kuna, build 20 regional fruit and vegetable centres, and double the irrigated agricultural areas. We will protect the environment, manage waste better, and we see the European Green Plan as an opportunity to speed up Croatia's energy transition towards clean energy. With the market premium model, we will encourage further installation of production capacities from renewable sources and increase from 150%. Greater economic sovereignty of Croatia will also contribute to better spatial planning and availability of spatial data, as well as the creation of a more sustainable tourism model. We'll bring in a state plan of spatial development, as well as the spatial plans of the ZERP and the epicontinental belt. We will complete the project to establish a spatial information system at the state, regional and local level, and we will integrate spatial plans with other spatial information, thus enabling digital and public self-service use. Because of the share of tourism in our economy, it is strategic for the public to be more resistant to crises, sustainable and encouraging for other activities, especially agriculture and transport. We will therefore invest in modernising Croatian tourism, increasing the quality of supply and accommodation facilities, and encourage investments whose potential is estimated at EUR 3 billion in the next 5 g. The development of all types of tourism will be encouraged while special emphasis will also be placed on health and nautical tourism. Our fourth task is to strengthen our statehood. This is reflected primarily through the efficiency of public services, but also the resilience of public finances, which has proved crucial for the successful management of major crises. In the circumstances in which we live, we see that the role and strength of the state is irreplaceable. Although the Republic of Croatia has shown in recent years that it has been known and can cope with various crises, from the largest restructuring in Europe, numerous issues of Croatian economic transition through fires, floods, earthquakes, to the pandemic of the coronary virus and related economic impact. A just state strengthened by citizens' trust in its institutions rests on an effective judiciary. That is why we will continue with the reform of the judiciary, we will pass the new Executive Law and uncompromisingly fight corruption with an emphasis on its preventions. In order to build a fairer society, it is necessary to step up and further strengthen the work of all institutions working to process war crimes. Its financial stability and its ability to support the economy in crisis, as we have proven, is crucial for the country's resilience. And it is equally important to raise the quality of state property management, in particular public enterprises, as well as the efficiency of state and public administration in order to respond to the needs of citizens and economies as best as possible. With this goal, we will halve the number of local officials and enable the functional integration of municipalities with further digitisation of public services. To make decisions as close to citizens as possible, we will work on further fiscal and functional decentralisation and build project cooperation with local self-government units. We will continue to build a strong system of homeland security and strengthen all its components, especially civil protection and fire. In cooperation with the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties, so Zagreb and Krapinsko-Zagorski, for the reconstruction of Zagreb and its surroundings, we will continue to resuscitate the consequences of the earthquake, the devastating consequences of this earthquake. We will bring a quality legal framework for reconstruction and, with the help of domestic and international sources of funding, restore it in accordance with modern building standards. The developed transport network is the backbone of a functional state, and therefore we will continue to invest funds in the modernisation of the railway and other transport infrastructures. We will also develop a broadband infrastructure for fast internet access and a uniform digital development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. We will speed up the transformation of Croatia's public administration and economy by further digitisation and development of digital society, which has proved to be of particular importance under the conditions of restrictions of movement. With regard to the global visibility of the Republic of Croatia, our goal is to further strengthen its international position, to represent our national interests effectively. 30 years ago. Thanks to the sacrifice and courage of Croatian defenders led by President Tudjman, we have chosen our place among the free nations of the world. And today, as a member of the EU and NATO, we are working together on the future of the European continent. By doing so, we have strengthened our sovereignty, which has gained a new dimension. Our political and economic positioning in Europe and the world contributes to the opening of new markets for exports, attracting investment, the tourism attractiveness of the country and promoting our culture on all continents. To this end, we will promote the Republic of Croatia as a Central European and Mediterranean country of rich history and culture and recognizable identity. After the first and successful Presidency of the EU Council in order to strengthen EU integration, we will work to achieve our two strategic objectives, that is to enter the Schengen area and the euro area. We will work to meet the objectives of sustainable development contained in the UN Sustainable Development Programme, as well as the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement. We will be active in all multilateral organisations, regional organisations and specific initiatives. We will continue to strengthen HV as a guarantee of the security of the Republic of Croatia and the support of NATO allies in an increasingly unpredictable world, as well as the Croatian police for the sake of making effective, effective protection of the security of our citizens, as well as the security of our borders. We will regulate the normative process of regulating the rights of civilian victims from the Homeland War, we will work intensively to find persons missing in the Homeland War, and improve the Croatian model of search for the missing to enable their families to learn the fate of their loved ones. In addition to building a culture of memories and showing pitets towards victims, we will encourage and finance historical research to shed light on those periods of Croatian history whose interpretation still causes divisions in our society. We will continue to work on linking the country's and eviction of the Republic of Croatia, encouraging the learning of Croatian language and particularly taking care of the situation of Croats in BiH and neighbouring countries. We will advocate the constitutional equality of Croats in BiH, support BiH's European future and advocate the rights of our countrymen, especially in Serbia, Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, Austria and Montenegro and Kosovo. We will establish a special institution that will coordinate all activities for the economic and cultural promotion of the Republic of Croatia in the world. To achieve these goals, I have to have a quality team and a team of members and members of the government that I represent today, consist of experienced people, people with their political and professional careers. The Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister will be Tomo Medved. Also retired Brigadier General of the Croatian Army. Zdravko Maric will be Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister. Davor Bozinovic will be Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister. Boris Milosevic, the current representative at HS, will be the vice-president of the government for social activities and human rights. Gordan Grlic Radman will continue the work of Foreign and European Affairs Minister. Ivan Malenica will be the minister of justice and administration in this government. Mario Banozic will be the defence minister, Tomislav Ćoric will be the minister of environmental protection, i.e. he was the minister of environmental and energy protection, and will now take over the economic and sustainable development portfolio by joining the two ministries. Josip Aladrovic will be Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Willi Beros will continue his duties as Minister of Health. Radovan Fuchs will again be Minister of Science and Education after a break of nearly 10 years. Oleg Butkovic will continue his job as minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure. Marija Vukkovic will continue her job as Minister of Agriculture. Nina Obuljen Koržinek will be the minister of culture and media. Darko Horvat will be the minister of construction, spatial planning and state property. Nikolina Brnjak will assume the post of minister in charge of tourism and sports. Natasa Tramišak will be the minister of regional development and EU funds. I am convinced that the proposed ministers and ministers, as well as all together as members and members of the government, will work in their area to achieve the objectives and programmes set out in the Government. I expect each of them to apply the highest professional and ethical standards in their work and to contribute to the improvement of public policies in order to make Croatia an even more orderly country. The government I propose is the result of political co-operation, notably HDZ as a convincing yet relative election winner for the Croatian Parliament and our partners, those who have been on the lists with us, are HSLS, HDSB and Marijana Petir, as well as the HNS and Reformists, and all 8 representatives of national minorities. It is in our programme, of course, part of our pre-election programme, and it is also the fruit of the agreement of the entire parliamentary majority. Dear MPs and MPs, as I was saying at the beginning, Croatia is at a turning point in the face of major challenges, and this requires responsibility, expertise, dedicated work for the general good and the well-being of Croatian citizens. To successfully overcome all obstacles, we also need national unity. As never in the past 20 years, with respect for all our political differences, I am convinced that we can succeed together, respecting each other and respecting political and ideological differences. I expect constructive cooperation, right here in HS, mirror of the Croatian people, with the trust that each of you has received and which I respect by respecting all the voters who have given you confidence. It is up to us to ensure national cohesion and ensure Croatia's economic recovery as quickly as possible. I look forward to working together. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u802	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'd only like to disinfect the pay phone now. So after the pay phone, we'll talk without a mask, all the other colleagues and colleagues please have masks and talk to masks. A proposal, then, 15 minutes to speak clubs, five minutes to speak individually. So 15 minutes clubs, 15 minutes individually. Now, I'm going to read all the ones we've registered that have come forward for the replica, if we haven't seen anyone by accident, let them come forward now. So Zekanovic, Stier, Rasudić, Selak Rasdić, Grbin, Mrak-Taritaš, Troscott, Lukačić, Bulj, Kujundzic, Pavic, Miletić, Grmoja, Hajduković, Petir, Celić, Puljak, Glasovac, Pejović, Tomaševic, Kristo Vidović, Sanader, Kuzmanić, Vukilović, Ahmetović, Salapić, Bauk, Ostojić, Posavec Krivec. Is there anyone else who answered without being recorded? No, I don't. Okay. There's still a representative one. Yeah? Everything's fine, then? Okay. Then we'll start with the replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u803	Dear President, before we go, the Prime Minister, here, puts on a mask, it's good, it's good, I thought he didn't respect the decisions. Okay. So, you'd still ask, so yesterday we had to have a mask box, today we don't have to, I don't know, when that decision changed and did you change your mind? But you warned me that I must have [[President: At the pay phone yesterday you didn't have the first mask, I remember when you were talking.]] It's not, well, well. [[/Intruder President: No, don't make up a colleague of Zekanovic. Come on, you're wasting your time. Come on, come on, talk.]] I'm glad we won't have to, but I think the precedent was made for the Prime Minister, but okay, I'm glad about that. Dear Prime Minister, since I hope so, i.e. I don't hope so, but that's how it's gonna be. A simple question, do you think as a Christian Democrats in the next term of protecting life from its beginning or conception?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u804	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u805	What are we gonna do, get out of here? Thank you. [[The incursion president: must, yes.]] I'm just checking with the President of the Parliament so you don't object. Dear Representative Zekanovic, thank you for your good wishes and for predicting that we will receive another trust from the Croatian Parliament for a new four-year term because I know that four years ago you and you all supported us and I am sure that somewhere in the depth of your reflection you are looking forward to our second term. As far as your question is concerned, HDZ policy and our view is that life starts from the beginning, we are aware of the legislative framework that exists, we are aware of the circumstances both in Croatia and in the world and what we want to think about how to touch this one of the most sensitive issues we do everything we can to make abortion as little as possible. It can't be a general ban, it's known, we all said, and that's why, ultimately, the Constitutional Court said that in a pedagogical informative sense, everything is done to make such cases as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u806	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u807	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. The government's programme lists not only objectives and projects but also has one concrete basis, which is 22 billion euros agreed at the European Council's meeting, of which a significant part will go to the railways. And by representing the interests of my fellow citizens, I must say here that the world-wide end is an extremely important railway to Zagreb. I know that you have sensitivity for this topic and for this area and for the first time you have been elected to the Croatian Parliament in this 7th constituency, so I believe that the government trusts the political will, the capacity of the government to solve this problem of public transport to build this railway that will also be a rebirth, an economic rebirth for Samobor and the whole area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u808	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u809	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Stier. It is true, these 22 billion euros are important, they are a potential lever that we all need to use together in the best possible way, we have made it clear in our programme that it is exactly the kind of traffic that is the biggest investment that we are all aware of, and these are our railways, including this section that you are talking about Zagreb-Selbor which has one special mentality, identity and symbolic importance for all of us who are familiar with its history. I have already asked Minister Butkovic to keep that part of the stock in the projects and plans of the modernisation of Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u810	Thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u811	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic. On the relationship between what is stated and what is done, more specifically, I will specify only one small plastic example by referring to what you said in the speech and what you are giving priority 5 in your programme, which is that you will take special care of the Croats in BiH. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH in 14.12.2018, within the amendment 2 proposed by the HDZ note, an article was introduced. 6th century 8 which obliges the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the declaration. You are proposing to us the same foreign minister who obviously didn't do his job, I repeat, the declaration was passed at the end of 2018, it passed in mid-2020, there is no report in the Parliament. Have you given up what you stand for in the declaration and in your program, or is it the unhappiness and neglect of the same minister you're proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u812	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u813	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Representative Rasdic. I am pleased that in the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we will have another strong ally in strengthening the RS policy on the equality of the Croatian people in BiH as one of the three constituent peoples. You see that declaration from 2018 did not pass by consensus here, there were political parties in Croatia who did not vote for it. I hope that you and your party, or a set of parties you represent, will be articulated and clearly supported by the Croats from BiH. And since you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs are both from BiH, I am sure you will find a common language. Zdravka Busic will run a parliamentary committee that will deal with this very issue and believe me, there is no country I have visited more times and there is no country we have helped over the past four years than BiH has, so it will be in the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u814	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u815	I'm calling in an article. In 238, it was spoken out of the question, not answered my question. Why in a year and eight months did you violate your own declaration, why didn't you bring that report to the Parliament last year on the implementation of neither last year nor seven months this year? That was my question, not my good wishes. I'm sure we'll work well together on everything that helps, but I'm asking you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u816	Col. Rasudiæ, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister in this case, replied that he considered it appropriate and this is not a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you to respect that. My colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u817	First, I would refer to this esteemed Prime Minister Plenkovic, taking care of the Croats in BiH is not a question of someone's origin, and thus you insult the rest of us MPs, but of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia as well as of the rest of us. Unlike the ones who came to me earlier, it's clear why you didn't send us your program earlier. It wasn't necessary. In it you use, as is said here, solutions that were present ten years ago. In this regard, my question is, how do you think the solution in terms of the resources that you prefer to leave to others, which is, of course, the resources of education can be Fuchs, who has already worked as a minister and whose proposals of the law then in 2010, in 2011 turned down 97% of the colleges that publicly showed themselves about them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u818	I'm just asking you to hold the mask during the speech. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u819	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. I see that you have essentially two subjects of interest, one is Croats in BiH, another is education. So, as far as the Croats in BiH are concerned, you've been in some other properties until yesterday, and we who have been on political duty have been working on this issue continuously, not one term, not one year, not a decade, but the last 30 years, get to know each other a little bit. As far as science and education, science and education are concerned, it is now open to me to say, the most sensitive and most complex resort of all resistors in the government. I may not have been aware of it four years ago, but I've made it clear through the work over the past four years. The progress we have made in education reform is significant. We've turned him to the future, and Minister Fuchs who has experience, which is very important for this resort will do a great job. They will prepare Croatian youth for the competitiveness of the labour market in both Croatia and Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u820	Thank you. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u821	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Plenkovic, let me first congratulate you on the election result, and afterwards on the mandate you received from the President of the Republic and hope that the next 4 years will be far more used for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic than they were before. However, allow me one criticism of what you've been saying. We've heard from you that we're going to have bigger salaries but we're going to work less, we've heard from you that we're going to pay less taxes, but the state is going to spend more money, and we've heard from you that the state is going to invest billions of kuna, but not from where that money comes from. I suppose you'll answer me that this will come from this 22 billion European funds from the EU budget, but I must tell you that we have a big problem here that you haven't talked about in the opening statement, which is the complete unpreparedness of the Republic of Croatia for the withdrawal of these funds. So please tell me how we're gonna do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u822	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u823	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin, and I congratulate you, and I wish you every good thing and your stranger. As for your thesis that your former party president spoke in the election campaign that if we relieve tax citizens and businesses, we wonder that the state has higher incomes. It can only be surprising to someone who knows nothing about the economy, who knows nothing about tax revenues and economic activity, and I see that you continue on that path, it might not be good, you can correct it a little bit. As for pay insurance, pension insurance, job insurance, that's our basic job. In this crisis, and I said that the role of the state is irreplaceable, there is no other actor to save 600,000 workers and 100,000 employers other than the state. Investments, they'll come in part to EUR 22 billion, come in from national funds, come in from a changed climate for investment, come in from a larger absorption European funds, and you can help with that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're open, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u824	Thank you. Dear colleague Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u825	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, we've had the opportunity to hear from you a program for four years which is actually a list of beautiful desires and somehow it'll be all wonderful, wonderful and better, but we're trying to get back to reality. What was particularly stuck in my ear was that you mentioned again as you did in October 4 years ago the Immunological Institute and the New Hospital in Zagreb. Since you have been in a stable coalition with Mr Bandic for the past 3 years which you are still in the City of Zagreb, it is expected that there have been some shifts even more on several occasions, and you have been asked, and then the resolution ministers who were from the field of health when it comes to the hospital and the immunological what was done. So I'm asking you now, that it's not just a list of good wishes, which you've done over the past three years to make sure they really will. Is that something to make it happen? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u826	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u827	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark Taritash, and I congratulate you, you have received one term, your party, my 66. As for our health care activities, which relate to the New Hospital, this is where they are prepared. You, as you know, are signed in the term of last government contract that prepares documentation for the construction of a new hospital and is one of the top priorities of Minister Beros, where Willi is, there you are, Minister Berosa, with all that he is doing to prevent the outbreak of the coronary virus and what he is also doing in terms of reducing debt in health because that is also the financial issue of health, perhaps the most crucial issue of all. And as for the Immunological Institute, 3 resolutions working on it, health care, economy and state property, have prepared a solution, have prepared a plan, how to revitalise it and its realization will follow in this term. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u828	Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u829	Dear Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic, in your presentation, you mentioned new sovereignty, so I am quite interested in economic sovereignty. The EU faces heavy sanctions from the United States for Erbasa and Boing and for the northern flow in northern Germany. The financial framework and Next Generation are new EU responsibilities, a number of economists as Professor Stiglic from the University of Colombia say that the EU market, the currency market, are non-optimal and we are facing a global recession and a global pandemic that will affect the future of the EUR in the EU. I wonder if as a Democrats, at least as you plead, you will allow Croatian citizens to plead on the EUR issue through a referendum such as Sweden 15.6., 15.9.2003. or will you continue the practice of you ruling to steal a referendum from the people so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u830	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u831	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott, I congratulate you on your mandate, and I advise you not to go with words as difficult as stealing at first, because you're telling the truth, it's neither convenient nor good in a reputation, and I'll repeat it every time from today. As for the issue of introducing the EUR, so for you which I have not seen on the horizon of our European path, up to two and three years ago, you have a lot of people here who are a lot of hard work, knowledge, sweat, skills, time in the European way of Croatia and even these negotiations that were three days ago. I've never seen you in that process. The acceptance of the EUR is contained in the Accession Treaty, which has been ratified by each other by HS here. This assembly, but not this assembly has ratified it, it has already been confirmed in both the referendum and the HS. So that's the question of the formal legal aspect. Absolvirated. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u832	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u833	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, the Honorable Prime Minister Plenkovic documents and demeans legitimately elected parliamentary deputies because he has never seen them on their way before that they were dealing with the topics he believes they should have, and he should have seen them do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u834	My colleague Selak Rasludic, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So the doctoring certainly does not fall under the Rules of Procedure. They are heard, words are also heard to the government that are going, which are sometimes rough, but we can't judge everything by breaking the Rules of Procedure, the citizens will judge whether it's okay or not. Here, fellow Bull, you've also reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u835	So also the Honorable President-in-Office, he did not doctor here, but he defamed the parliamentary representative who was even the holder of the People's Decision initiative by collecting the signature of 400,000 of our citizens to whom the former government spat on the leadership of Plenkovic, 400 000 signatures and as a murderer. Democracy dealt with this referendum [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] who led the esteemed representative. [[Come on, fellow Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u836	Comrade Bulj, you are an experienced representative, this is the second and third term of office. So, you know there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, and you've been using the replica now. Don't do this because we'll have to reach out for a warning then. And what, I don't have it to warn you, you all have the right to state your position, you can say it softer or rougher, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague of Lukacic's, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u837	Thank you very much. Your Honorary, we all know, I have to look back briefly on my past term, we all know how personal you and the entire government have done for people with disabilities for their better and better quality life. Today, in your presentation, you have repeatedly mentioned people with disabilities, which gives us the guarantee that you will continue to personally and the entire government to stand up for people with disabilities. When you mentioned them several times, you mentioned them in different scenarios. I'm sure you'll get the trust and that in your government, I won't say the hardest, but it's very challenging for you both personally and Minister Aladrović, but here's thank you again for what you've done, and I'm asking that people with disabilities continue to be focused. Like so far, if not more. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u838	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u839	Thank you very much, Mr. Lukačić. I'm glad we're sharing again this very place where you're in HS, it's not just because we're on the same list, which is the same party, but because we share joint care for people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia who have more than half a million. I also thank you for contributing to the development of our programme and the party programme and the government programme, and I am sure that with your experience you will help both the government and of course the legal proposals and your suggestions that we will present here, which will go further than what we have done in the first term. We, four days ago, had a meeting with a number of representatives of persons with disabilities, resuming achievements in the mandate of Minister Bedekovic, now Minister Aladrovic has taken the post, moving forward and towards an inclusive add-on as a framework progress in this area. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u840	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u841	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the season is disastrously touristic. The Republic of Croatia is not self-sufficient in agricultural production and what our village and peasant produce is modelled i.e. they must throw away literally if import lobbys, pests within the ministries work more on imports than on the incentive to purchase domestic products. What are you gonna do about it, take it? I would personally ask you once again on behalf of all those who have a bad situation now financially regarding the tourist season. Do they, ask me if you'll take what other countries have taken, will you put a moratorium on interest and loans in the name of the completed and blocked year, is all these measures that you've listed, this list of wishes, you won't be able to fill in if you're gas, you're basically protecting banks, using gasoline to put out fire. Would you put a moratorium, suggest a measure for us, moratorium on interest And credits or you'll stand aside [[Intruder: Thank you]] The bank? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u842	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u843	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. As for the blocked, you remember how many numbers they were before the start of our mandate. They were reduced, reduced by nearly 100,000 in the government's mandate thanks to the laws that he passed the parliament's past assembly on our proposal, not to mention the amount of blockades that have been reduced. Finally, you feel in public that this topic has gone down as the most important topic since a few years ago. That didn't happen by accident. As far as our decisions are concerned, you saw the government about 10 days ago seems to me to be on a joint proposal, and Minister Bosnjakovic and Minister Marić made decisions that, despite our warnings and requests to the citizens that if they can pay their commitments, we live in democracy, live in the context of mandatory relations where we have to pay obligations, to pay them, we continue to postpone it until October, with banks The Ministry of Finance is talking and looking for solutions to postponement. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u844	Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u845	Dear Prime Minister, and I congratulate and join the congratulations here for the majority you have agreed. I'd have two questions. First of all, by believing in one good will of you and here's the future government I'd like to ask you within this program and the concept of "Smart Village," in which you plan to actually realize the staying of people in the Dalmatian Zagora from which in the past 10 years a little more than 10,000 people have emigrated, and of course you have to bear in mind that within this whole realisation of this programme, the question is whether these measures that you are not specifically saying here, or whether or not it's a clear deadline for the realization of the same ones, will result in the return of those who have gone because, after the end, when we withdraw, you were up there, the question is who will have to stay? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u846	The answer of the esteemed prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u847	Thank you very much, Representative Kujundzic. We are satisfied with the way we realized the first phase of the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". And taking care of the even regional development and the continued presence of me personally, members of the government throughout Croatia with care for every part of Croatia regardless of who is in power, without bias, we have concluded that we must make a similar programme for the Dalmatian Zagora, for Lika, for the Gora Kotar and for Banovina. These are the parts where we have a problem with the depopulation, the lack of investment, new jobs. That is why the 2 billion that we are late to invest in the next term should be made possible by these objectives that you mentioned. First, that our young people stay in those parts of Croatia, two, to create an economic activity there that will magnetically retain them and three, that those who may not be satisfied with going to another member of the Union, we attract them to return home. That's the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u848	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u849	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, with respect for the term of office, I congratulate you first on your election results. We have one question, namely, in your programme one important point of protection of the rights of national minorities, given that you are also in the government with national minorities and how several days ago the future Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Milosevic, said he would insist on introducing bilingualism into all those units of the local unit in which the legal conditions are obtained, and as it says in your programme, I wonder whether the future government will introduce in the next 4 years the city of Vukovar bilingual boards, given that we have 300 missing citizens in the city of Vukovar, since we have 2717 dead, since the last census shows no real figures primarily in the relationship between Croats and Serbs, and I'm afraid that no future census will show that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u850	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u851	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We are very well aware of the situation in Vukovar, Vukovar is a city that our government has helped more in the first term than in another. You know very well as Deputy Mayor, ask your colleagues from the county and from the other 5 Slavonian counties or any part of Croatia, and you will surely hear the views, we would love that so high on the list of priorities of any government was one city like Vukovar. And we're going to make that very clear and carry on. And continue, Vukovar is a symbol of Croatian freedom, Croatian sacrifice, a symbol of the Homeland War and deserves everything that we, regardless of all circumstances, want to continue. As for the issues of co-existence with national minorities and in Vukovar, that's an important question. In part, your majority received trust thanks to some citizens of Serbian nationality in Vukovar in the local elections in 2017. We will respect the law and watch the specific circumstances that exist in the city for the co-existence of Croats and Serbs in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u852	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u853	Good afternoon, all of you, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. My question is this, so we spoke several times and we heard dozens of times "safe Croatia", that syntagma, and I would like to point out once again on the 47-page programme, Mr. Prime Minister, three sentences stand on the agenda of resolving the issues of blocked citizens, I will tell you the exact data, more than 260, 000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia are blocked. It seems to me, that at least my impression is that citizens expected more concrete assistance from you and that they got some soft camel and I want to encourage you, the program says that the new Executive Law will be adopted, the citizens are demanding to return to the courts, to prevent the privatisation of the executive system, and I ask you on behalf of those citizens who elected me here and sent me to the Croatian Parliament, to introduce a moratorium on interest loans and on the implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u854	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u855	Thank you, beautiful representative Miletic, I just answered that question and with achievements, what is important to know, so the Executive Law goes into the third reading and the solutions that are written in it are currently predicting this procedure that you are talking about. I hope that we will get a consensus not only of Parliament's representatives on this law but of all the actors involved in this procedure. It's not as simple as it looks at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u856	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u857	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. You didn't just answer your colleagues to a very simple question but I know that the answer is very complex, what are you going to do to really use these 20 billion for the benefit of Croatia? I ask that because at this point we are actually in a big fiasco when it comes to the use of EU funds in the current financial perspective. So, unfortunately Croatia is the last one by paid funds, there is an arrow that marks Croatia, I know that you might want to watch a chart like this, but the truth is unfortunately completely different. The graph is seen like this, 36% of Croatia, the EU average is 48%, the best country over 70% of the funds paid, so the money that came into their countries is the only and real criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u858	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u859	Thank you very much, Mr. Greek. I hope this data table, the SDP plate, is just as good. ... It's someone else's source again, okay, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It doesn't matter, you were the Minister of Regional Development very well know the subject and I respect you and I am sure that through the work of the Committee on Regional Development and European Funds you will help us at the speed of absorption. Unlike earlier achievements, we have reached 97% of the agreed, 37% paid, 32% or 3% verified, and this mechanism is going very quickly. Croatia today, compared to when we started, is no longer the same as the absorption of funds. Minister Tramišak is tasked with speeding up operational programmes and the absorption of funds for concrete projects, and the entire government will form a body that will personally be headed by a national recovery programme to absorb these funds that we received last week for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u860	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u861	Thank you. Your Honor. You've talked a lot, though not today in this speech, but otherwise about fighting corruption, about fighting clientelism, and I think the only way to fight corruption is transparency, and that's where you personally failed. On several occasions you refused to deliver the Anti-Corruption Council of HS and institutions such as the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests of certain accounts, travel expenses, let's remember Finland, let's remember the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Will you change that practice, will you finally become transparent? That's the first question. And the second question, let's agree in the government what this government programme is, is this the HDZ programme, as counterpart Bacic says, or have others installed something? Because we see different attitudes, here's Mr. Radin last night in "Open" claims there was no epidemic in Croatia at all. What do you think of that statement and how many others were involved in this government programme?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u862	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u863	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy. I didn't watch that show, so I can't comment completely, I just saw the title. ... Vice President, here he is, the two of us will certainly discuss it, I know that the Minister of Health has declared an epidemic in Croatia that is still declared, and you know it very well. And as far as the government's position and the legality of the whole context is concerned, he's quite clear. And it's good that we've taken measures that haven't caused greater consequences in that outbreak or pandemic. As far as the programme is concerned, the programme is not just HDZ, the programme is common, it is a parliamentary majority programme, it is both the essence of democracy and the conclusion of the coalition. It is, of course, the most based on our pre-election programme and it is quite clear. As for the fight against corruption, I made that clear in the speech, it will be uncompromising, transparency that, however, what you refer to is a story that is finished and has in its final court epilogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u864	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u865	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor. The program says... create conditions for opening 100,000 jobs, that's commendable. Your claim to strengthen the project “Slavonia” is also commendable. But I must ask you here if the result of the project "Slavonia" closure of Virovitica Sugarana, the announcement of the closure of Meggle, is that more factories in the east of Croatia are being closed. I realize they're private companies, but what does that mean about the atmosphere in which it is, what does that mean about the stimulating atmosphere for the economy? Here's an example from Meggle, a 55-year-old woman who works at the Magle plant, belongs after she gets fired in a hard-hitting category, what's she gonna do? He tells me he'll go to Germany to wash dishes. Is this the result of the project "Slavonia", is this the safe Croatia we are talking about? And at the end of the day, is this government policy towards the east of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u866	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u867	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic. I understand that you from Osijek did not put you as the bearer of the list in the 4th constituency and that you have legitimate interest in all issues related to Slavonia. What I want to tell you and what you know very well is that you have a lot of international experience is this: decisions by private companies in the market economy do not depend on any government. The restructuring of companies that have an international presence does not depend on the government's decision on which they are, what we can do is find a solution to find another partner, it would best be some consolidateder who will take over the milkmaker Meggle, formerly Osijek's milkman and who will retain both employees and secure the purchase of the product. It's the government's job under these circumstances. Our options are limited here,...false hopes they are limited, that's their decision for their reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u868	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u869	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I congratulate you on the election result and thank you for the presented programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which you place agriculture and rural development at the heart of which I believe it is extremely important if we want to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and thus protect our sovereignty and national security. We know that Croatian villages have preserved the faith, language, costume, song, culture and identity of the Croatian people and today face various challenges and therefore deserve our support. In addition to what is stated by the common agricultural policy, the green plan, the circular economy, European funds, this is extremely important, and I expect it to be clever and wisely programmed and that the money will come into the right hands so that we do not get the situation from 2013 when the funds were misprogrammed and used badly. You have announced some national measures, and I think that the most important thing is to curb unfair commercial practice and reduce VAT on food, and in this respect I expect spot action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u870	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u871	Thank you very much. Councilwoman Petyr. I believe that both you and your experience and in your work at HS and in the European Parliament, knowing the frameworks of the common agricultural policy, will help us realise the objectives of the Government programme in this area, that you will work well with Minister Vukkovic. I think we've made a number of laws that we've adopted in the area of agriculture and fisheries over the past four years in a way that the legal framework is better than it was. We have certain elements that we now see in practice that need to be modified and repaired, so that I am sending a message to you not only but also to our farmers, and we are going to try to achieve this goal that I, which we have clearly stated in the programme and in speech today. To increase agricultural production by 30% and take care of it in particular, I know that this is a subject that you have often and directly dealt with, which is to help young farmers. They are the future of Croatian agriculture and will be in our focus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u872	Thank you. A fellow cell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u873	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you have repeatedly highlighted citizens' health security as a priority, and today you have pointed out this in the presentation of the programme. When we talk about the effect of coronaryvirus on mental health, there are two groups, so on the one hand there are negative roles, unpredictability, uncertainty, severity of the disease, incorrect information and social isolation on the occurrence of stress and mental disorders. On the other hand, there are the economic consequences of the Covid virus and its effect on the feelings of well-being, as well as possibly high levels of fear and panic. What I'd like to point out here is that the prevalination of mental disorders is on the rise. The Ministry of Health has, following the establishment of the Crisis Headquarters, opened the topic and what I particularly want to emphasise is that it will be very important to develop services that will deal with the prevention of mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u874	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u875	Thank you very much, Agent Cellic, I agree with you completely. We are even through the Croatian Foundation for Science a few days ago, projects have been allocated that have passed a certain procedure of competition, 11.7 of them medical character, 4 are, among other things, socio-economic consequences. Some of them, I'm sure, and futurely, will contribute to the scientific research of this segment that you said, which inevitably affects the state of our fellow citizens. On the other hand, I once again appeal to maximum personal responsibility, it is the key to everything, so, the more responsible each of us is, the smaller the risks, the less the consequences for the economy, the more successful the tourist season. I suggest we listen to the recommendations of the experts, especially the epidemiologist, and this also all that the Civil Protection Headquarters does because I think we've seen exactly the hotspots when the concentration drops, when the brakes are loose, that we have a problem. That's the key. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u876	Now it's Puljak's honorary representative, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u877	Here's a thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor. Here's my first program of government that I'm commenting on this way and I have to say that I'm disappointed that here, in fact, the government's four-year period doesn't have a 50-page programme, and I just didn't expect a government to go into office in one of these unserious ways. As a matter of fact, I was actually going to say, the elections are over, it's not time for good wishes anymore than for a serious document with serious goals, measures, deadlines and financial plans and benchmarks of success. To start with, commenting on 100,000 jobs. Here, again, some of the promises that you repeat year after year and I wanted to comment on investing in education, continuing reform of education, a word of advice, not a sequel, but should be returned to the original basics, the entire curricular reform and implement the education and science strategy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which was adopted in the Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u878	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u879	Thank you very much, Mr. Puljak. I respect your attitude. You might have expected a 1,000-page document. Then how many hours would it take for the MPs to read it? So, just a little bit of information about what the government's previous programmes looked like, the government's programs are a summary of what the government is going to do in four years. There's no government program that has 1,000 pages, so it's something else, so usually they have reports at the end of the term. As for 100,000 jobs, therefore, that number was not put there as a fruit of creation in the valley but was put there on the basis of the results of the first four-year term of our government, which is 110 thousand jobs that we have already achieved. I don't necessarily feel like government, but there's a prerequisite for these people getting a job. We understand that this is a key topic and that is why exactly the active employment measures we're raising from 7.5 billion kuna to 10 billion kunas can provide another 100,000 workers [[Intruder: Thank you.]] places. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u880	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u881	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. First of all, congratulations on the election result and I support what you yourself have said in the opening speech that you will advocate a more equal position for women in all segments of society. However, I would prefer it much more if you hadn't just stopped at that declarative level, but that today, here, when you represent future members and members of the government, you presented a more equal government because four ministers of 16 ministers is sub-representation, not equality. I won't look back much on what the program says, there are already promises that were already four years ago, like 100 thousand jobs, sharing parental fees, etc., etc. I'd be wondering why there aren't any things in this program, or why they don't write, so I'm asking you now. What about the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy and Protection, or will you stop hitting independent institutions in Croatia? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u882	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u883	... All eyes. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much for your congratulations. I also congratulate you. I don't know what impact you're talking about on independent institutions. It's some thesis that's going through public space, I'd like you to give me a little argument to see which courts aren't independent, which institutions don't do, which that body that's independent of the Government or the Parliament may not have the means to do their job, that someone's putting pressure on them, I'd like to know. Could the media be unfree in Croatia? I didn't notice that. The question of private people's lawsuits, I can't answer for it, neither can you, it's something else, but as far as independence is concerned, that thesis doesn't stand, I just don't accept it. As far as abortion issues are concerned, I just answered MP Zekanovic, the topic put on the agenda by the Constitutional Court after 27 years, was not part of my 2016 election programme either, she is here, we will solve it to try to reach out as wide a social consensus as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u884	Dear representative Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u885	Good afternoon. Prime Minister, first, when exactly do you intend to raise the minimumer to 4.250 kuna? Secondly, you promise security you'll provide safe jobs, but at the same time you say there's nothing you can do for Megle's workers, probably not for Crosco workers, the tobacco factory in Kanfanar, where the move was announced, the workers of Saipem who announced their departure, so 200 domestic engineers are fired, the sugar workers in Virovitica who have shut down, workers and workers of Krasa who are offered unfavourable collective contracts, you haven't done anything for shipbuilding workers that you've destroyed. Today, Croatia, together with Greece, is in the group of EU countries with the lowest unemployment rates, at the very top of uncertain labour contracts in the EU. Croatian workers work more hours than the EU average for wages that is among the lowest in the EU. How do you plan to create new jobs with measures to reduce taxes to the richest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u886	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u887	... would be very simple, in our current mandate we have raised minimum wage for 754 kuna. [[Specially enabled.]] That's twice as many of you as the previous government together, together, not one, but more of them together. The minimum wage, as you know, is determined by the government's unilateral administrative decision, but is never taken without listening to its effects on the economy, to those sectors where it has the highest employees with minimum wage, textile industry, the leather industry, a series of other industries. We create preconditions for economic growth that we can do as we have increased the average salary in our mandate... in the entire term of office, see the numbers, see the numbers and you will see. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I promise you 7,600 kuna average salary in Croatia 4 years from today So we can go back with Randeva Clause on that subject. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u888	Thank you very much. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u889	Good afternoon. Here's a question for the prime minister, I hope he doesn't disrespect and say that we are yelling at Mark's square in response and respecting the votes of the citizens who gave us the vote and so we won the parliamentary term. My question will be specifically related to the page of the 40th Government Programme and I will refer to counsel Stier in the spirit of yesterday's debate and I will ask about the railways. It is good that most of these European funds go or a good part goes to rail infrastructure projects, but what bothers me and what concerns me, and I'm interested in that because you don't mention anything about it in the government's programme, whether you're going to return HZ Holding since we now have 3 HZ companies, all 3 owned by the state, there are a lot of EU countries that have kept HZ Holding within the framework of the liberalisation of rail services because the situation that we have 3 HZ companies even though they are state-owned And one works against the other, it's not appropriate to achieve these projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u890	Thank you, fellow Tomasevic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u891	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomasevic, I don't understand this opening statement of yours, I don't understand it at all, it's first, I don't see, I don't know what you're referencing if a normal conversation for you is causing some kind of problem, then it's something else, I've seen some of your colleagues who, instead of a normal conversation or questions, have articulated howling on Mark's square, it's the difference between you and us, to be quite clear there. As far as railways are concerned, we will invest EUR 3 billion in railways in the next 10 years. That's what I've answered to counsel Stier whose question you refer to. As for rail management modes, whether it will be through 3 companies fundamental, large today or it will be holding, we have already had that debate, we have had the debate and in the term of our government, I have tasked Minister Butkovic to make an analysis that is more effective, whether we are losing somewhere by mismanagement like this and whether we would be better at rounding up all segments of HH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the question we're going to give an answer to in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u892	Thank you. Now it's MP Vidovic Kristo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u893	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Plenkovic, you have announced in your speech that after this anti-constitutional election cycle, you will nevertheless insist on putting the government together in an anti-constitutional manner. Namely, we know the 11th and 12th electoral units are anti-constitutional. In your speech, you cited a lie as an excuse for your cooperation with anti-constitutional elected representatives from the 12th electoral unit as it is to the welfare of a society that will share both national and universal values, here comes a large questionnaire. Namely, Racan's government voted and adopted the Declaration of Homeland War, Mr. Pupovac swore to the Croatian Parliament and, as a Croatian parliamentary representative, attended in the Republic of Serbia one celebration or event in which the Homeland War and Storm mourned, and remained there while not only slandered at the expense of Homeland Labour but also that the Croatian nation killed millions of people because of ethnicity, which is a lie. He stayed there and slandered the state instead of being tried for defamation, you persisted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to counter-constitutional government with that partner. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u894	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u895	Thank you, well-respected representative Kristo, there is nothing against the constitution in these elections, nor in the government, nor in the mandates of the MPs elected in the 12th constituency. There is one round of people in the Croatian political space who are obviously not familiar with the last 30 years of the political and legal history of Croatia, nor our architecture of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on Minority Rights, the context of international recognition. I say a little bit about it both as a lawyer and as a politician and as a diplomat I know and remember some moments, maybe better someone else, maybe you remember them, but we don't see them the same. The representatives of national minorities are, if you like, both political and legal gains of modern Croatia. I'm not gonna change that. That's not going to change most of it. You can change it, but I won't. I think minorities are the wealth of Croatian peoples and Croatian states. And that 30 years of Croatian independence says that practice is good, however, I would also like Croatians to have those rights in other countries. And that's what we're gonna stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u896	Thank you. Comrade Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u897	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister and current and future Prime Minister, I am taking this opportunity to thank you first for the support and implementation of the Fire Department's reform in this already past term of office where it has returned to fire and jurisdiction after 100 years of HVZ. I thank you for being in this Programme of the Government for Equipment and Modernization of Fireplace, which is very important and I would also like to ask you, first and foremost, to congratulate these 22 billion euros that we have received for use or we will get through this period, to be a special measure, to support us that a special measure be within the framework of the planned spending of these funds for the construction of fire-fighting homes, the purchase of new fire-fighting vehicles, means the equipment of fire-fighting and the training of fire-fighting, which is important and what the experience of the countries that have already spent in the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u898	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u899	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and thank you for your support for the fire. Firefighting is extremely important, we have classified it as you remember in our home security system on this National Security Strategy. Firefighters have made a huge contribution to the number of crisis situations we've had since the fires, floods, this earthquake, and in the system of homeland security and civil protection, and we appreciate it very much. Our government has raised HVZ to the level of the central state office, and I think that this is how we have made a step that people like you who, for years, have worked in the firehouse, wanted, we have achieved this through dialogue, I think that the existing system and investment and coordination is better than today and surely in the next term, we will try to invest national or European funds in fire, improve the position of both JVPs and DVDs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u900	Thank you. Now it's MP Kuzmanic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u901	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I cannot look back on your second chapter, which is called "Perspective Future", which you call a competitive, vital and educated Croatia. I must tell you that during the term of your past government, most of Croatia's concrete, vital and educated, has left the country. In no part of your program, I haven't seen what you're going to do to make that part of the population come back because the exodus that's happened in the last five years is the largest exodus of our population since the Homeland War. If you continue this policy of continuity that you announced in the pre-election campaign, not only will this second chapter of perspective and future be threatened, but our social security, our economic sovereignty and our strengthened statehood be threatened. The only thing we will remain recognizable for will be this global recognition but by the shameful first place in the exodus we will take from Bulgaria if we continue this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u902	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u903	Thank you very much, Mr. Kuzmanic. As for the numbers of people who have left Croatia in recent years, this is primarily related to the 2+3+2 formula of opening up the labour market for other EU members after Croatia became a member. So that this exodus is now not random, it is happening now because people have taken advantage of the right to freedom of movement, one of the 4 fundamental freedoms on which the EU rests and European projects. What we see and especially in recent years, that this number is getting smaller, that this number is shrinking and our task is to achieve this programme, precisely on the perspective of the future, the educated, vital, competitive Croatia. Why is it called that? So that people stay here, get quality education, vital means demographically successful Croatia, so we go to the Central State Demography Office as a horizontal measure and be competitive on the labour markets here and abroad. And today it is a two-way process, I am convinced, the stronger Croatia becomes economically, that the issue of departure will be less and a part of the people will return. It doesn't work overnight, so we'll work on that lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u904	Thank you. Dear colleague Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u905	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. In the programme you propose and which, by the way, has half the pages of the HDZ pre-election programme, in the work relating to energy self-sufficiency and the transition to clean energy, you are announcing an increase in capacity from renewable energy sources, which I warmly support but you intend to continue, 'Is it, in your programme you propose, quote'mainly in the field of photovoltaic power plants and wind power plants'? Since we know that wind power plants have a dominant import component and photovoltaic are basically in two places, in two locations only consisting of import components, I am interested when this government thinks to start investing in renewable energy sources but with a dominant component that is domestic and developing the Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u906	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u907	Thank you very much, well-respected MP Vucilović. At the heart of our energy strategy that we have presented, which was in the public debate and which was adopted in the last term, is the administration of renewable energy streams, which is the basis of a global topic on climate change, which is the basis of the European Commission's Green Plan. If there weren't COVID 19, believe me, the only global topic that we would be talking about here and in Europe globally would be the theme of the green plan. She's in another maybe plan for a while now but I'll hope she gets back to the agenda as soon as possible. We have achieved a lot in terms of wind power plants and solar power plants, Minister Coric now has a significant experience in this segment, it is clear to all of us that it is rarely this technology used for renewable energy that comes from abroad. However, we would be pleased if the production of one of these segments or whole would be in the Republic of Croatia as well. It is then a merger and development of industry and energy security [[Intruder: Thank you]] based on renewable energy sources. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u908	Dear colleague Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u909	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, the programme that you have explained says that the construction of a strategic LNG terminal project on the island of Krk will be completed as a national strategic project that will help reduce energy dependence. Building LNG will not reduce energy dependence because it is not investing in the use of its own sources but building infrastructure with the money of the Republic of Croatia's citizens for transporting energy for the purposes of other countries, e.g. Hungary. If this is such an important and positive strategic project, why is it that the respected Mr. Plenkovic has not been since 2nd. You haven't visited or been away from the eyes of the public. Since you are announcing special care for islands in the programme, the island of Krk as the most visited and trafficiest island in the Republic of Croatia would be happier if you invested money from Croatian citizens in editing the national road infrastructure on the island of Krk, so I am taking the opportunity to ask you when can we expect it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u910	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u911	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Ahmetovic. As far as road infrastructure is concerned in Krk, or at least when it goes towards Krk, I think we have made a very important decision in the past few months, and Minister Butkovic knows it very well, you know, and that is that finally the bridge to come to Krk has been lifted, that is one. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, the investment plan that Croatian roads have is really big, voluminosan, we had to reduce it somewhere in this crisis, but I am sure that both the island of Krk and its road infrastructure is well planned because it is important to be quality. As far as the LNG project is concerned, it's a project that we're going to implement. He's been talked about for a long time. I know and respect your attitude, what we've been keeping in mind is that he's ecologically safe and clean. So it won't have any effect on what you were legitimately worried about, and that's the effect on the environment, the sea and everything else. Realisation of this EUR 234 million project will provide not only [[Intruder: Thank you]] our energy independence rather than the strategic role of the Republic of Croatia to Europe's energy map. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u912	Comrade Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u913	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. As for the construction here, I noticed that some of the MPs who didn't have time to read your program, our government's program, had upped the line before you said anything. As for the credibility of your work and your government, it was all said by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on July 5th, and I am glad that I and HDSSB are part of it. What I want to put a special emphasis on, in addition to the executive law, bankruptcy, I think I share optimism that we should also work on further protection of the rule of law, further legal arrangements of the Criminal Procedure Act, prevent leaks of classified information, protect citizens, speed up judicial proceedings and give everyone equal right to access to courts as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u914	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u915	Thank you very much, Mr. Salapic. I don't see you anymore, so I'm sorry. Thank you for this contribution. It is not unusual for replicas to rise before the speech, we have already mastered it all, I think it is good and it is good that there are many replicas to make the debate dynamic and that our fellow citizens hear different views. As far as citizens' attitudes are concerned, he was very clear, as much as possible in this electoral system. And as far as judicial reform is concerned, you, as State Secretary, have contributed to the work in this segment. A number of key main laws, whether it be criminal laws, litigation laws, a series of other aspects, will come on the agenda. We have these systemic issues to resolve and the fight against corruption will be high. What we're planning to do as a pledge and a political message is end immunity to government members, it's a relic that's been here since the mid-90s, we're going to change that law. to send an important message about what I think about fighting corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u916	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u917	Thank you. Mr President and Prime Minister, 19 October 2016 You presented and requested trust 14. Government of the You presented us and requested trust for 20 ministers and for you as a 21st member of the government. Today while the government is still formal until we declare a new government, of those 21 ministers 7 remained in the government until the end, and 14 left, some for justified reasons, and some for less justified reasons. Let me take it down to styles, how you like it, My question is, how many of these members of the government do you think will welcome the end of the term of office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u918	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u919	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk, I didn't expect any less of that Braccani question than this, but that's fine. We understand each other very well here as the Hvar and the Brachanin. As for the departure of people from the government that lasts for a few hours today, some of them have gone on their own free will, some of them have gone into reconstruction processes, some of them have gone to some better places, and some of them I have replaced, not necessarily because of the quality and quality of work, but rather the unfair move without precedent on the Croatian political scene, and that I have such a situation again and tomorrow and I will make it again. I think it's important that we all understand together and they understand it well, and I am in correct relations with all four ministers who have been in that situation. I don't even think it was their political assessment, but good. As for the work of the future government, we go with people who are experienced, who know the areas they will deal with and I expect us to do a full mandate on the benefit of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u920	Thank you. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u921	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister... Congratulations at the beginning, first on election results and your position as mandated, mandated and second on the reduction of the number of ministries, to 16. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we're really getting close to the European average. Namely, I've analyzed these two days of the EU ministry, it's 15.4 but I've analyzed it for one ministry. The Ministry of Culture and Media, the Honorable Prime Minister, no country mentions the media. This is a question of why you agreed to it, whether or not someone framed you is perhaps a form of new sovereignty. On the other hand, today you showed a new picture. New normal and new picture. You showed, unfortunately, only once a single dose of self-criticalness, when you said that you only now saw the importance of education. So, education led by my colleague Fuchs, so why didn't you add the name of the Ministry of Education, Research, New Technology, because it's constantly, constantly and it's commendably mentioned to industry 4.0?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u922	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u923	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I'm glad to see you're okay. The campaign also had self-initiative doubts that you weren't, but I'm glad you're okay. As far as culture and the media are concerned, and Germany has the title of the Ministry of Culture and Media, therefore, it's not our own invention. Why did we put this story to be clear because I see that it's always trying to find some kind of, negative angle of some idea. Well, it's not like someone thinks we put the Ministry of Culture and Media in because we're trying to control the media. If that's the conclusion, it's not even a trivialization anymore, it's a banalizing and misunderstanding that requires serious pedagogy. The media is very important in Croatian society, there are a number of laws the government proposes to the HS which are tasked with regulating the media-related legal framework. This is what the Ministry of Culture does anyway, and in order to highlight the importance of this segment in the section of this ministry we have explicitly placed it. As for the number of ministries He's reasonable and I hope he's functional and effective. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u924	Now it's Posavec's representative, the guilty one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u925	... We can? [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, you've been headed by the Croatian government for four years. We have before us a new mandate and more or less old and famous faces. Among other things, such a proposal by the new government actually takes responsibility for continuity, therefore in the title "Safe Croatia" and everything you have presented today, unfortunately in no word did you mention children, adoption of children in the Republic of Croatia. It's a rare subject, and you haven't talked about it today. I'll just tell you. 450 children have conditions for adoption, 1400 adoptors are waiting, 851 are on the list for over 3 years. Only 85 children were adopted in 2019. Four years is a lot for the country of one term, but very little for children. I'll hold you responsible for these results. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Improve them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u926	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u927	Thank you, well-respected representative Posavec. Dear fellow Members, we come from the same system, as far as adoption issues and general child care are concerned, this has been touched in my understanding even through 2 segments of the new architecture of the government. One is, of course, the issue of a family that will be in the power of Minister Aladrovic, and the other is demographics and young people who are in a special, new central state office. So even in two places with different aspects. The question of adopting children is a question that I think goes too slowly. I've talked to professional people on the subject several times. When we look at real numbers, there are so few children that should be adopted in Croatia, that we should hardly have institutional care. The numbers are essentially small, although we are only 4 million and one of the new minister's tasks and all his associates will be to speed up these procedures and continue the process of deinstitutionalization. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u928	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u929	The Honorable President and the Honorable Prime Minister. I have a question about intervention in the tax system. In fact, if we want a fairer society in Croatia, if we want fewer economic inequalities, one of the key points is tax policy. Unfortunately again, we see that there is no comprehensive reform of the tax system in the government's programme, which, now very aggressive system, would introduce us into a more progressive tax system and thus allow for the reduction of inequality in Croatia. First, what you are predicting is a reduction in tax rates in income tax, however, we still have only two rates. So what we would ask you to think about is that, firstly, more rates are introduced where the first rate of income tax is going to be low, so some rate of 5% and then gradually rises because, if our first rate is 20%, it's very high. Secondly, what we would also ask you to consider is to introduce into the government's tax policy programme and transfer tax burdens Now with work on the burden [[Intruder: Thank you.]] income from capital. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u930	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u931	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Bencic for this question. So in the past term, we have had four rounds of tax reform. All sought to simplify and pass through the tax system, all entered into force on 1 January. Unlike the 40th changes made by an earlier government, I will never return to any earlier government. The only thing I can refer to right now is this one of ours whose mandate ends today. As far as tax discharges are concerned, we've already announced them very precisely. I'm sure you know that, as Minister Maric likes to say, there is currently not as much as 2 800,000 of our fellow citizens as 1 800,000. One hundred and eighty thousand doesn't get into tax scissors at all. By further redundancies of income, that is the meaning of this law, with the intention of compensating those revenues to local and regional self-government units, we want to boost economic activity and introduce more justice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And economic activity And growth. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u932	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I personally wish you every good in your future work. However, I have one question about this strategic integration of Croatia with emigration. Unfortunately, as you know, our emigrants continue to grow, these people you mentioned who are returning to Croatia are mostly retired, not coming back because they have found new jobs but just young educated people because of the economic situation and the clienteleist management model are still leaving. Since this is the case, why do you keep refusing to allow our citizens abroad to vote in the elections by electronic or by letter? There are more and more of them, and would it not be in Croatia's interest for them to facilitate this basic right to choose and thus maintain that connection with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u933	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u934	Thank you very much. Representative Batulica. Since we've known each other a little longer than this day, he's calling the Parliament, so here you are, there's a fellow Stier, there's a colleague, Frka Petesic, who came to Croatia in the '90s, and also Zdravka Busic, who came back then, there's a lot of people who came back to Croatia at different times. The economic aspect is however we turn it around with all the sense of belonging to emotions somehow important to people. In today's globalised world, the economic aspect is important, if economic aspect i.e. Their assessment that their life here will be as good in economic terms as where they are, I think of Croats outside Croatia on those who have recently left Croatia, so they may return through the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia we are doing a series of programmes, a series of encouraging measures from language learning to their arrival in Croatia at all, so that we can enable them to return. As far as the electoral electronic voting system is concerned, the only issue in Europe is Estonia, and no other country has that. At this point, we don't think they've gotten the hang of something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u935	Thank you. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u936	Dear President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. First, I'd ask you to compare today's situation to '91. A year with the Homeland War. It's not the same situation, people died, 15,000 people died of 403 children, the most potent people of life aged 18 to 25, and I would ask you not to frighten a decent Croatian brave people. And I'd like to ask you a question about how many people you've found missing in the past term, and except for the fact that you passed the law in 2019 on missing persons, I'd like you to tell me how many people you've found, how many mothers have buried your sons, except that you managed to find from a missing volunteer lawyer from Jean-Michel, his mother, and bring her to HDZ headquarters to put her as a decoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u937	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u938	Thank you very much. Mr. MP Mlinaric. You obviously don't even know the communication I have with Mr. Jean-Michel Nicole's mother, not of these choices, but throughout the entire term, but I'm allowing you to know that you can't, so you're jumping to conclusions without being informed, that's the first. And as for other topics on the work of finding the missing from the Homeland War, more Minister Medved made in this mandate along with his associates than the two previous governments combined. More has been done for a legal framework that regulates the rights of Croatian defenders, the Law on Missing Persons, the increased budget, the resolution of numerous injustices and gaps that have been than in many governments so far. I believe you followed it, perhaps you didn't respect it, but perhaps you didn't follow it. I am sure that through our mandate and through the fact that Minister Medved is now taking over the role of Vice-President of the Government, you will understand the message that we are sending and about the dignity of the Homeland War and the rights of Croatian defenders in this government, and in particular the issues of the missing and all parents, wives and associations with whom we are constantly talking and helping.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u939	Thank you. This is what we've come to an end with the replicas, so now we're on our way to a debate. First it's the clubs, we've got 12 clubs, and so far we've got individual discussions registered 47, so it's hours ahead, so I'm asking you to be efficient in the debates, stick to the Rules of Procedure, and we're all actively involved in the debate. The first is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Tomislav Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u940	To use the mandater's right then to speak the same without a mask here, so I believe that all club presidents or club representatives will. This government is able to say recycled with mostly the same faces compared to the last government, something rebranded with some new faces, but only a few such faces in terms of new ministers. This government, according to us in the Green-Left bloc Club, is not the government that will lead Croatia to 21st century delays in terms of combating climate change, in terms of the growing gap between the rich and the poor in our society, in terms of the increasingly poor education system for the challenges of time, in terms of increasingly difficult democratic standards and blocking the use of democratic instruments by different levels of government and at local and state level, in terms of growing political corruption, especially those at the top. Let me also look back on this situation today because it is totally unacceptable for me as a parliamentary representative that a four-year programme of the 50-page government comes 40 minutes earlier to the MPs. I really don't know about this practice, and I don't think it's good because if you want to talk about the government programme in substance, then I think we deserve it as parliamentary representatives and we have enough time to prepare ourselves for it. And then I also find it unacceptable that when all the opposition clubs are looking for a break of at least an hour so that the 50-page program can be studied, they eventually get a 15-minute break. It's not respecting me, not opposition or opposition clubs, it means about 20 seconds per page just to read it. I don't think that's the way to start a new government mandate that I all believe is going to vote out here at the end of the day or sometimes late in the night. The government's programme is also recycled, it repeats in some things from mandate to mandate. Here's an example of the National Children's Hospital in Blato, we've heard an example of the Immunological Institute that would be very welcome to us in this epidemic but we don't have one. I've been hearing about the Immunological Institute for years and by HDZ, but I don't see anything moving in that sense. Some even moved by the city of Zagreb in partnership with the government but there was no adequate reaction on the other side and here again in the new programme of the government, again there was this mystic Immunological Institute that everyone was talking about, everyone swearing on it, everyone would love to have it, but we never had it, and when we needed it most, we didn't have it. The mandate spoke of transforming Croatia into a resilient economy. And I am glad to use this term "greenly resilient economy" because that was also the term that our coalition used as one of the three programming pillars, meaning a green-resistant economy because this crisis has shown all the vulnerability of our economy and Croatian society, and I agree with that, however, let's also say a little bit to remind ourselves who is to blame that we have come into a situation at all that has not survived the basic epidemic challenges. So who's to blame, who's been mostly in power in the last 30 years that we've gotten into this situation, that we've allowed criminal privatisation on the one hand, that we've increased the inequalities among our citizens on the other hand? If we have destroyed or reduced our environmental capital or renewable natural resources that are constantly being restored and once you destroy them, you are reducing your environmental capital and there is no going back to the old ones, meaning from forests, soils, water, biodiversity etc. It's the concept of development on which we built this society that we have today. And what is also important and what the prime minister was talking about, says the prime minister, more resilient tourism. I don't really know what more sustainable tourism would be, but what I do know is that the economy would be more resilient, it couldn't depend so much on tourism. So here I am really interested in what this more resilient tourism would mean, but I don't see that Croatia among the EU member states with one of the biggest shares in GDP by tourism can have a more resilient economy for any challenges that await us in the future because there will not be only epidemics, it can God not be terrorist attacks, it can also be some kind of ecological disaster on the Adriatic Sea and what are we then? Tourism is a very vulnerable economic branch that is very vulnerable to different external influences that we do not have answers to and we have allowed the country to deindustrize. And from that perspective, yes, green industrialisation, green re-industry in accordance with 21st century technologies must be the key to Croatian development in order to reach this greener, more resilient economy, in order to be less prone to crises and external shocks that will then create economic and then social and social problems. As for the government's composition and the reduction of the number of ministers, the fewer ministers, to take advantage of this term since the term "squeak", the fewer ministers then mean less corruption affairs, means less likely both ministerial resignations and less government reconstructions and less recalls or recall initiatives due to corruption affairs, less undeclared property in minister's property cards, less perfume and deodorant bought by ministers to official cards, means less. In that sense, it would be best if the government had two or three men, so all of this would be less per minister of such affairs. But, well, there's been a lot of talk about resuscitation of the government and a recycled government programme, so when I'm already on the subject of recycling, there's some focus, I'm going to talk more about it in an individual debate, but I'd also say on behalf of the Green-left bloc club, which has a very green component of development and environmental protection, and it's very crucial or one of the key topics, with a reduction of social inequalities and a greater democratisation of Croatian society, which is actually a proposal, meaning Mr. Tomislav Coric as the minister of this new economy and sustainable development, meaning a new mega-mining ministry in which we have sustainable development actually contains an economy and has no sustainable development in which the economy is not one of three pillars, so I've also called this ministry of pleonism and from this perspective, and I'm not going to get rid of the whole of the environment, so I'm going to get rid of the public opinion, so I'm going to the whole of the whole. We must also say that indeed, and I have followed the long-standing different Ministers and Ministers of Environmental Protection, I cannot really remember that the Constitutional Court has suspended the environmental regulation and it is a regulation on the management of municipal waste on the modification of that government's regulation that the Constitutional Court suspends environmental regulation because it does not meet the objectives of environmental protection. Here, in this sense, I really can't think of such an undertaking for any minister or minister of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia, and there were all sorts of them. I have been working with some of them more successfully, with some of them less successful and as a member of the government's environmental council, but I can't really remember such an example, and I think in this sense that Minister Coric is one of the weakest links in this new government that is proposed here. As far as I was concerned, something that was said by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who said he did not remember why I started my individual, my replica, this was not only a recycled government but also a late government from the perspective of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment, it was very well known to the public about disbanding the parliament and provoking new elections for the Parliament in the middle of the summer, in the middle of the epidemic, which led to much less turnout in relation to the other parliamentary elections in the Republic, and I must admit that since the mandate said that I did not know what I was talking about, only a little bit reminded of it and put it in context. To me, I must admit, it's totally inappropriate for a prime minister to hand over 76 signatures to the president of the state to come before us as a prime minister, insulting us as parliamentary advocates that we have roared in Mark's square to collect political, political points, political points in criticism. Okay, the truth is, well, here, so... [[I'm not insulting, I'm the truth.]] Okay, so here's another one. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I find it entirely inappropriate that when a future prime minister comes to Pantovčak to say that some have roared in Mark's square and collected political points on the subject of earthquakes, and that they are. because you obviously referred to us, I don't know who else to refer to, we don't know how to rebuild Zagreb, and you, as a born Zagrebian, know it. I think it's totally inappropriate and that's... Just, just, don't, don't hang up, forgive me, can you, I mean, so here I'm trying... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Just a little bit, so... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Excuse me, can I please, can I speak on behalf of the club, so that I can't be interrupted? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So that's exactly what I'm talking about. [[/Intruder: Be my guest.]] Disrespecting parliament and parliament as the country's top political institution and also parliamentary deputies. So, you were talking about when you called the representatives of the opposition clubs to respect the voters who gave these options, gave your mandate, and that out of respect for these voters you called us to, in, talk in 4 eyes. It is these incursions, and just as inappropriate, in my opinion, the statements you made in Pantochaka, that you show that there is no respect for voters, for the voters who gave us the mandate. From that perspective, I think it does not show what you are, here I will quote you "expect constructive cooperation and respect the voters of all the political options here". So, I don't think this is appropriate, I don't think this is respecting the voters of all political options, and I think if you want constructive cooperation, and I hope you really want it, if you want a constructive opposition, then as an opposition, we expect, too, from the obviously future government that is going to get trust today or tonight, to be constructive as well. I also find it unthinkable that the political culture in this parliament in HS would even say worse than in the City of Zagreb City Assembly from the perspective that the proposals coming from the opposition were automatically rejected whether or not they were good proposals. It is up to you to judge, in the future government, whether they are good or not, but only to reject them from the perspective of coming on behalf of the opposition, I don't think it's this constructive dialogue expected between the ruling majority and the opposition, especially bearing in mind the epidemic, economic, social, environmental crisis that awaits us in the next term of this government. From that perspective, we will vote against this government as the opposition Green-left bloc advocates' club. And yet another call, we are ready as a club to support all the bill proposals that come from this government if we consider them in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But one way we expect, also from the government or the ruling majority to support all good, from your perspective, good opposition proposals if they are in favour of most citizens in this country. I think it's a minimum for some kind of dialogue that you wanted here when you represented your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u941	Thank you very much. The record of the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the esteemed representative of Škoro, please. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u942	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure, Art. 231, during the speech of the parliamentary representative, the president is concerned that the speaker is not distracted or prevented in his speech, which was done, so I ask you to prevent it from happening in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u943	Okay, I don't think he was distracted and he could say anything he said. Here you go, Comrade Bauk, you've raised your hand. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u944	Mr. Vice President, I've received information from representatives who are at the gallery that they are reporting by the Rules of Procedure or for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there is no one to spot them visually, so I ask that with the professional service you can see that they too are in an equal position as we are in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u945	All right, of course, here's the service I'm asking you to pay attention to the fact that if someone calls in any time later, it's possible for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or any replica to pay attention to that. Here's the esteemed representative of the Vrkljan same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u946	Here, thank you. I would join this on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so Article 238, I would ask the Prime Minister and believe that he will receive the necessary majority of 77 votes, but you are here in the position of someone who has come to ask for confirmation of his term of office and this home is above the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I am asking you, therefore, not to interrupt the representatives who speak. Excuse me, but I have...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u947	All right, time, your time's up, fellow Vrkljan. I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure, no one was disturbed, there were serious distractions in this house against which I am absolutely, but there were no distractions. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u948	Here, he says they're disrupting the session in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u949	No, no, my colleague Vrkljan, please sit down, so I took your word. You can't talk. I don't know how long. Please, first all MPs, read the Rules of Procedure, I ask you all nicely to read the Rules of Procedure, and you will see, among other things, that one hour of rest could not be given, but that the break may be at least 10 minutes, and not more than 30 minutes, etc., etc., etc. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u950	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask you to protect the integrity of this assembly. Mr. Prime Minister, forgive me if I can, but don't type on your cell phone until your esteemed colleague is speaking to you or scrutinizing or I don't know what you're doing on your cell phone. And I'm also asking you, we heard here, upstairs in the gallery, so distracting fellows while using his rights and speaking, Mr. Prime Minister was breaking his word. I ask you to protect the integrity of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u951	Okay. I estimate that this Rules of Procedure has not been harmed because if we were to assess the breach of the Rules of Procedure in such a way, you will see a little later, how, as we continue to do so, you would have to share warnings all the time. Are we done with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and that folklore now? Here you go, fellow Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u952	Dear Presidents, I will look again at what you have corrected me after that, and in Article 238, it says that it interferes with the speaker with its incursions or otherwise. That's exactly what it says. So please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u953	Okay. Now, let's make a deal. The president of the Croatian Parliament said that he is benevolent and that abuse of the institution injures the Rules of Procedure will not punish today with warnings. I will not be so benevolent so that the abuse of the institution of the Rules of Procedure, when it abuses itself instead of a replica, will be punished by warning and appropriate penalties, immediately before I announce it. Here's your esteemed representative, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u954	Dear Vice President, I don't think this is a folklore, but that we should really protect the integrity of our assembly, no matter what the mandate of our government is, and we respect it, I don't think it's right to jump in and to interrupt the talks to prevent us from speaking uninterruptedly. None of us got a mandate in the word when he spoke for half an hour, so given the Constitution and the I don't know what the articles are, but I think we should protect all of our MPs that we should be equal and that the intruders, that you should have protected the young gentleman who presented his ideas. [[Intruder: Excuse me, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u955	Okay. The next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will be shared between the respected representative Zekanovic and the respected representative Pavlicek. First of all, the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u956	This I don't know is disinfected? Yeah, well, I mean, it's not a colleague of Tomasevic's, it's just that Plenkovic's office has recently been with a colleague of Malenic who has a crown, right? And that's where we see double standards. So, the mandater Plenkovic can stay with the marked coronary virus in a closed room for an hour and there's no self-insulation. Right? There you are. My colleague Malenica has a coronary virus. You were with him on the 16th of this month, a few days ago you were in a government meeting. Is that a good thing to say? And there's no self-insulation. The other thing, which suits me personally, which is these masks, and here I don't know someone left a mask after disinfection, so yesterday we had to have masks here, we were warned about the masks, and today comes Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who says I'm going without a mask. Of course, the president of the assembly immediately changes the rule, I'm glad we don't have to have masks here, but it's interesting how we, the precedent of Andrej Plenkovic, got the right to discuss it without a mask. And I was warned and I was warned, Vice President. I have to look back on this situation from a moment ago. So, just before the vice president of the assembly, you didn't go after the team, you were a little imagined obviously, Andrej Plenkovic fell into the word of counterpart Tomasevic, at least a minute. And you ignored it, you didn't even warn him. That's not how you do it. But we're going on the subject. First, I would like to congratulate Andrej Plenkovic and Milorad Pupovac on the opportunities to draw up a new Croatian government, congratulate you both on the SDSS and HDZ and other partners in the new Croatian-Serbian or Serbian-Croatian government. You've got the citizens' trust, and it's legitimate for you to do it. And I'd say your name is your program. So, SDSS withdrawal HDZ withdrawal one member of HNS withdrawal Radimir Cacic, that's your program. So those 50 pages you sent us late this morning, or just before the session, it doesn't matter. But interestingly, a colleague noticed, your election program had 100 pages, and the government program has 50 pages. Where those 50 pages are lost, and that's for one analysis. Yesterday I was saying, you probably didn't hear, how very signifying that you abolished, kicked out the Ministry of Demography, is gone. You've put it at the state's office level. You could have done this with the Ministry of Defence, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with any other than the most important ministry today in Croatia. Osijek, Rijeka, Sibenik has lost 25 per cent of the population in the last few decades and during your government, this natural decline has not been stopped. I find your answer to the simple question I asked you in the replica very interesting. Do you want, or will you, in your current term of office, to protect your life from its beginning or conception? You answered, prepared a good answer, great. We are for the protection of life, but we will not protect it. I repeat, you are for the protection of life, but you will not protect it. Just explain to me how you are to protect your life when you won't protect it? Here's what I don't understand. I don't understand as I don't understand those vertical and horizontal measures you keep talking about. And maybe one day you'll explain it. Here they were mentioned, you also mentioned national minorities as wealth. Super, is, both in Germany and in France and Bulgaria, everywhere those wealth is, however, Croatia has one slightly different situation and the situation is that one national minority, that M. Pupovac, not so long ago, 25 years ago, was that, whether those last trinkets of them, destroyed, destroyed, robbed our country of Croatia and never the representatives of that national minority apologized for what they did. So don't give me those floscules, please, about the wealth of national minorities. No one has anything against any national minority, but it is important that members of a national minority, a minority belonging to M. Pupovac and your Deputy Prime Minister B. Milosevic shelled this city 25 years ago and no one has ever said a word from their community to say sorry, brothers of Croats, forgive the Croats but on the contrary, they have never spoken two words in combination with the Homeland War. They're still talking about the conflict. The issue of Serbia, or relations with Serbia, is also mentioned. My interest really stops at the Danube in Ilock, I don't care what happens on the other side except for the Croatian community living in Serbia. However, when we talk about this country, it is my fault that you are the biggest lobbyist of the country's EU entry without setting the condition for the EU to have a colleague up there talking to Mlinaric, about the missing. If you haven't set them a condition, tell us where our missing persons are, pay war damage, tell them that you were an aggressor in the Croatian state and that's what's wrong. Now, before I give a word to Pavlichek, here I have to say one more here, two sentences on one topic, and that is the famous money coming from the EU. A thousand and fifty billion is the new European budget, a new generation so-called. Help, that's 750 billion, of which is 360 loans, 390 so-called. Help. But now here's the key question, here's the first time anyone will say it in the Croatian Parliament. Where does the EU draw that money from? Is he printing it? Not the press. Is there somewhere in the safe stored? There isn't. Here's Prime Minister, question. I'll give the answer, but you confirm or say I'm wrong. That money will be set aside by some new taxes. Now, we're fiscally everyone for ourselves, does that mean introducing some kind of European tax, some kind of new tax? Does this mean that the EU will further release tentacles on all Member States and that Croatia will be less sovereign and that is what Croatian sovereigns are fighting against? Where will the EU raise money, which means for Croatian entrepreneurs, what does that mean for Croatian citizens? Are we going to have to pay some new Croatian tax or for the first time, some European tax? Because there's no money in the safe and the EU doesn't print money. Thank you very much, and I look forward to the answer eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u957	Thank you very much. We will now stop by the discussion and take a break during which we will have a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives up to 2 hours. We'll take those in order, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I thought it was a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here's a colleague of Pavliček, I'm sorry, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u958	Thank you. Here, I'll be a little shorter. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, I am sorry that I did not get a direct answer about the possibility of introducing bilingualism into the city a hero from you, but well, it is a long day and there will be more questions, and hopefully answers. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, Mr Jandrokovic, for allowing us a 15-minute break to study your government's programme, and I have even managed to do it in 14 minutes, and it appears to be very substantial and you have really done this program very thoroughly in at least what you have presented to us. I'd like to ask you a question, Prime Minister, have you ever heard of the place of Bapska? Charengrad? Tompoevs? Sollians? Berak? These are places in the V. constituency that have been so demographically devastationed in the last 20 years that you no longer have anyone to drink with. I'm going to give you an example of a Baba in 1991, according to the population list of 1680 people lived in that place, after returning 1350 in 2001 on the list, today less than 600. And you're talking about demographic restoration, and you're terminating the Ministry of Demography. You speak in your presentation on the concept of new sovereignty, we at the Club of Croatian Sovereignists are pleased to mention the concept of sovereignty, I just want to know what the concept of new means to you, I would say European sovereignty. Is this concept of new sovereignty referring to the fact that today we haven't solved the question of the missing 30 years since the Homeland War? Did they refer to the notion of not resolving border disputes and today with neighbouring countries from BiH, Serbia? Does this also include when your coalition partner goes to Bačka Palanka on August 4th and listens to the mourners about how Serbs were expelled in '95. year, he listens to Serbian President Vukic about how... she was genocide and criminal and the next day she comes to Zagreb and doesn't say a word about it. If that's the concept of new sovereignty, we don't see it that way at the club of Croatian Sovereigns. You were also talking about the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and you know for a fact that, unfortunately, in your government and all previous governments, all the major foreign investors in the big port were bypassing the Republic of Croatia. You have an example of Hungary, you have an example of Slovenia, you have an example and even of Serbia where, say, the auto-industry entered the country in Croatia, no sign of it. And in the end you talked about how this government gave a lot to the city of Vukovar, I will never challenge you for not helping the city of Vukovar, which I expect from the government of the Republic of Croatia as well as from all the previous governments that helped the city of Vukovar because the city of Vukovar, when it was most needed, gave great pain just to create this country and made it possible for everyone that I am here today and you here today. But also remember one meeting on December 9th last year when you were present just as you and a number of ministers from the future government, where investors from Switzerland came and wanted to invest more than 20m euros today in the construction of a hotel in the city of Vukovar, you said by the end of the year we will get an answer about changing the urban plan, and it is primarily about the historical opinion of the Ministry of Culture. Even today's positive response didn't come, he even came a few days ago and she's negative again. So much for this relationship with investors and this relationship, among other things, with Eastern Slavonia and helping to create new jobs from these famous 100,000. This is precisely why the Croatian Sovereigns club will not provide support and support to this government, but in the future, if there are good things, we will, of course, support in the interest of the wider community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u959	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u960	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.05 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u961	Is there a sound now? Great, we're still in the learning process, so here, I think this one's gonna sit down real quick. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, but before that, distinguished MPs, but above all, our citizens who watch us through the cameras, the 22 billion Euros we got to withdraw is really big money, but what's not mentioned so much in the media is that it takes certain criteria to withdraw these money, and these money, and the withdrawal of these funds is actually the most relevant to structural reforms. Mr. Prime Minister has not answered the question, so I would like to further deepen the topic here with you regarding the EUR itself. I truly believe that we will have the opportunity to have a public debate on such an important topic. Since the term of national sovereignty was stated here in the Croatian Parliament, I think that one of the key items of your programme during the campaign was the global visibility that you have communicated to our public, and from global recognition as one of the most important things is actually national identity, whether we are talking about the military, whether we are talking about our police at the borders or we are talking about a national currency that is extremely important if we are talking about national sovereignty. As far as the EU's accession referendum is concerned, the truth is that we have adopted the Lisbon Agreement, but there is no standing there when we should accept the EURo. So, it is formally legal that at one point in our stay in the EU, we should accept the EURo, but it does not actually say when. Now, what the key is and what Mr. Prime Minister refuses to answer is that certain countries in the EU have already declared through the referendum that it is not an optimal moment to enter the euro area. As a best example, I will point out to you Sweden, which in 15.9.2003 held a referendum on, introducing EUR and entering the euro area where 55.9% of the residents of Sweden said clearly not to enter the euro zone because they are one of the strongest economies and one of the strongest schools because Stockholm School of Economics is one of the strongest schools in Europe that have come to the evaluation that it is not an optimal time to enter the euro area. Mr. Donald Tusk was prime minister if I am not mistaken for Poland, so he also wanted to introduce the EUR into Poland itself and when he was doing surveys to introduce the EUR in Poland 70% of people said that Poland was not ready to enter the euro area or the EURo either. So, formally, we should accept the EUR-o, but don't say anything when. Now, when exactly should there be a moment of entry into the euro area? Well, then at the moment when we talk about an optimal currency market that the world's leading economists estimate is not at this point. I'll start with Professor Joseph Stigitz, so it's a professor who teaches at Columbia University, one of the most important economic professors in the world, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, who said, be careful he talks to her, Croats don't enter the euro zone at this time. And that reminds me a lot of even our Stephen Radic, who said, don't rush like geese in the fog without good arguments. I also think that we should not go into the euro zone without hearing the arguments for and against them without organising a referendum where our people will both clearly and sovereignly plead on entering the euro area. How does Professor Stigitz defend the thesis that it is currently not an optimal, conversion market of the euro? So let's say you take an example of one Germany that has been growing since entering the euro area all along, so that's true, but on the other hand we have one Italy that was 6 economies of the world, that now it has fallen to those levels that it doesn't know if it's going to be able to recover at all. For example, Italy has actually fallen to the very concept of the EU, and that is why there has been a huge increase in Euroscepticism in Italy itself. And why am I saying that? For the reason that, after the peace agreement, only in Europe, the whole EU was conceived as an economic community. Okay? And if, at the time when Italy asked for help, the European Community, headed by the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden, so far these negotiations have been extremely rude to Italy itself, given that they have had a lot of negative experiences with Greece itself to the extent that the EU Commission has apologized to Italy for the EU's relationship with the country itself, which China itself very much welcomes, given that it has great interests of entering the Eurozone, through the purchase of debts, through the entry into infrastructure projects, and also with the 5G network, which we can touch. When an American speaks of the currency itself, there should be very careful because certain wars in the world are being fought through currencies, the best example was Turkey and the attack on the Turkish lira. However, if he sees from the perspective of the economy that it is not an optimal currency at the moment, then it is necessary to take a good look at the arguments. What are the additional arguments? So, if it is not just Professor Privic who is American, who is a Nobel Prize winner for economy, you can take, for example, one Professor Philip De Grauwe who teaches at the University of Leuven in Belgium and teaches at the London University, an economic university, which was, by the way, purely speaking to Mr Barroso for an economy that says that the EU is not an optimal currency market. I'm talking, so he was a consultant to Barroso who says that at the moment he's not an optimal currency market. Now, we are monetaryally in the ERM, or in the mechanism of the European course, which is a kind of waiting room. And in this waiting room, therefore, I would like this topic to develop even more, given that it is important, of significant importance for Croatia for the reason why it assumes certain structural changes. For example, I would also like to raise the question of our Zagreb bank, which was not long ago, so with serious accusations of money laundering, it was accused by the European Central Bank which reported this to our CNB so that the CNB would carry out surveillance that we do not know about today. So how can it happen to us that we're going, we're going so far as to get into the Eurozone, and we don't know what's going on with the biggest bank in our banking sector. Is this really a legal money launderer where maybe there's a capital that shouldn't be passing? These are things that we must go our separate ways if we are to enter the Eurozone. Another thing I would like to say is that there are certain renowned economic experts here in Croatia who are numerous of us here educated who have completed the economy in Croatia and we cannot just put their opinions aside. For example, Prof. Drago Jakovčević, Prof. Lovrinović and Prof. Ljubo Jurcic, who see the problem of the euro from different sides. Prof. Jakovčić, Lovrinović from monetary sovereignty, and Mr. Ljubo Jurčić spoke more about the competitiveness that, if we enter the Eurozone, what we regret, is one Spanish, so we won't be able to have de jure anymore, so now we are de facto already in the euro-convertible market, but de jure we lost every possible measure of economic policy to work on our exports and on our competitiveness. Speaks, I have seen, I have seen Mr Dombrovskis' arguments, if I am not mistaken, from the EU that our, meaning our entry into the Eurozone, will be valued by the Maastricht criteria. So man asks himself a question, here today is being debated, here today is being debated, and there's been a debate about 1.8 trillion euros that the EU has kept on the international debt market, and suddenly the moment of the Maastricht criteria doesn't work at all. So the Maastricht criteria obviously don't work anymore. National sovereignty means the answer to Mr Dombrovskis from the Croatian Parliament that Croatia will not introduce the euro on the basis of a bonus from the same gentleman, who is now, I do not know if he is an EU Commission adviser, but based on the arguments for or against. So we can't run with Mr. Dombrovskis who apparently has a KPI index to introduce the euro into all the countries he hasn't yet, but we're not going to follow that criterion, but only with arguments. Regarding the EU itself, the EU is currently in a particularly difficult situation, which will affect the very price of the euro on the international capital market. First of all, I'm talking about U.S. sanctions here, and these are two waves of heavy sanctions that are manifested through customs. The first wave was due to the trade-economic war on the route Airbus and Boeing, where one and the other resented that the state was involved in the aviation industry, or that there was a certain dumping that occurred in both industry and the US had placed EU customs and sanctions in the first wave, and this would certainly affect the reduction of exports, and the reduction of exports also affected the price of the euro. The second wave of customs duties in the EU has been imposed on the EU for one reason, which is to build a Northern Stream II, an energy policy of Germany and the EU that does not go in favour of the agreement with the United States and in that sense, the second wave of sanctions, so it will reduce further exports to the EU's largest market, which is the US, which will lead to an additional change in the price of the euro on the international capital market. 3. EU, Mr Zekanovic was well on his way, but I thought he would go in the right direction. 3 If I am not mistaken, for the first time in the history of existence, the EU has committed itself to such an amount, and the debt has a significant impact on the price, the price of the exchange rate in the international capital market. And in that sense, we believe that it is particularly important to discuss these topics publicly, to see how much these are really debts in the euro. Our solution is through the short and medium term something that economists call the Kunizated Belt of Commercial Banks because we have ways of making these arguments of commercial banks, so that it is the euro-based sources of financing, so that they are being Kunized through a short and long period of time, with the Croatian kuna no longer being exclusively a transaction instrument, but at that moment the Croatian kuna will become a criterion of savings and a criterion of payment and a measure of value, which is then a real feature of national sovereignty. The Croatian economy is currently located in, what economists call, a state of Dutch patient, and that means that we have focused all, all possible resources on only one, only one source of funding, which is tourism, one branch of industry that is relevant to us. The MOST Club, therefore, has a vision that is feasible in the medium and long term, within which we would raise strategic industries like IT, such as one agriculture for which Mr. Marić, not only I, but all together we sought an appeal, but a really friendly appeal, a college appeal to protect moratorium agricultural land for the reasons we have a strategy and way to export our agriculture to, a EU market which is EUR 153 billion big. Not only have we asked for an appeal, but on a model of certain European countries, we would still be looking for additional agrarian protection in that agriculture, because we see it as a strategic branch of our economy, which would then be exported to the EU. So, and this agrarian protection would be directed towards, for example, even greater, greater protection, for example, one Hungary has made that it cannot buy the land of persons who do not come to live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So you can't buy agricultural land in Hungary without you staying there, which is fine. If someone comes from the EU and lives in the Republic of Croatia and wants to invest through agriculture, he is welcome. And that's the only way to protect us from this resort that, this segment of the economy that is so fragile, and we have a great, great possibility of supplying our, our budget from that large branch of industry and the big branch of the economy. We've also strategically had IT that, I'm sorry, has it expired? [[Intruder: Yes, yes]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u962	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Rajko Ostojic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u963	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I don't know if he's here, and he's... She'll be back, thank you very much. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, tell him these, then my opinion is that I'm very glad to take care of my health Mr. Bozinović this and that I'm glad that the National Headquarters just on the example of my self-insulation has re-introduced the new rules based on... I'm glad the headquarters finally started reading the latest literature and just keep going. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As Mr. Prime Minister has said, we live in a difficult time, a crisis. The crisis is a word of 5 letters and of 5 votes in Croatian, and Chinese consists of 2 characters. The first sign is danger, and the second sign is opportunity. But the opportunity is looking for courage, the opportunity is looking for passion, the opportunity is looking for everything that we haven't seen in this assembly today, everything we haven't seen in the opening speech, at least I haven't seen. We've moved on, Mr. Vice President, it's not you, but the president of the assembly, everything the way it is. We got the program 40 minutes before the session started, we kept ignoring, we kept doing the doping, typing on the cell phone, breaking up, everything the way it was. We had a break of 15 minutes even though we asked for a few hours. So, I expected from the speech, I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Prime Minister, more elana, more emotion, more passion, and we've got the usual sentences "we'll secure", "we'll work", "we'll set up," "we'll sell" etc., etc., okay here and there he said I quote "we'll try". Bad seminar work. What you brought us today was bad seminar work and it really was only enough for 15 minutes, maybe it took three minutes. Overwritten, plagiarized, poor seminar work. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, who is not here, so I'm going to give the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister one of you four. Your government is a government of continuity. You have no right for 100 days, no right for one day. Of the 16 ministers 12 are new and there are a lot of economists, Mr. Maric knows the principles of circular economy or circular economy, 4R, you're recycled, you're reused. Maybe you'll end up where things end when their life cycle passes, and everyone has their life cycle and this cup and this Jana and my life and your life, everybody has it. I'm not talking to you as vice president of the SDP, I'm going to remind you of your competitiveness indexes. Coliga Ćorić is there, he well knows the index of global competitiveness where despite the minimal progress of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the world, the index of the Institute for the Development of Business Management from Lausanne where we are the last in Europe fellow Ćorić, the last in Europe. The Easier Business Index, no Minister of Horvat, obviously deals with Doing Business or the ease of business, the last in Europe. The efficiency of the public administration last in Europe. And that's what the international institutions of ODIT, not the SDP, are assessing, not the opposition, but the ODIT. All the indexes are basically catastrophic, so gentlemen of honor, four vice presidents, I ask if you're satisfied with these indices? The public administration will have 22 billion from the next few years, and this is really an opportunity, this is the Chinese sign, the opportunity, the opportunity to improve the quality of life of our Croatian citizens on the one hand, and the opportunity to finally recover the Croatian economy, but we will not, in this way, do so with the same sprawl, doctoring, ignoring, repeating the same mistakes, so simply, will not work. At the end of the case, ministers conclude, quote "people", the ministers say, "some of the money is coming this year, we must start preparing projects," finished the quote. Is that normal for you? The government of continuity, speaking, we need to start preparing projects, so where are your project ideas, where are your supplies of the project, where's your investment catalogue? You've spent what the SDP government left you, the Peljek Bridge, Ciovo and everything else, and in these 4 years. You didn't create any new catalogs. That's a lot of money. I expected from today from our mandater to tell us, I quote him now, a summary, but this wasn't a summary, it's a summary of a few pages, an exele, a table, a spread, a schedule, what we're going to do, the goal, the bearer, the deadlines, it's a summary, it's done by organized states in the governments of continuity, from today nothing. I was expecting a draft plan, gentlemen vice presidents, a recovery that you must make in order to withdraw money from the EU funds. I expected the Ministers' draft European semester, but none of it, absolutely none of it. Okay, the success in Brussels 22 billion is good, but it should now be translated into the success of Croatian society. You didn't get off on the wrong foot, and you really don't have a single day. In the end, remember and only a colleague of Troscott said very nicely that the European Commission has set up a whole series of so-called Sokold conditions, conditionality what you must do, and I will later mention to you 6 conditions that are conditio son quo non, do not repeat the mistakes of HBOR which gave 600 million kunas for the development of wind power plants instead of giving 600 million kuna for micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for the development of new and creation of new, new funds, and not for wind power plants that have thus received from the state a whole series of reliefs. I am convinced, therefore honored gentlemen, that you know what the European Commission has told you, and she has told you very clearly to resolve health care. My colleague Beroš is a minister for only six months, even though he was an assistant for the 2nd year. solve health care, not fellow Beros debts in health care. The problem that can be solved money is not the problem of saying smart people, the problem is subjective thing, but this health care needs to become more effective, you have to solve waiting lists, it's crucial. Mr. Prime Minister on this one word because he obviously doesn't care about our citizens, is he obviously going to test himself whenever he wants, whenever he wants, as he wills, and in a way other than us ordinary citizens. So it's number one. Your colleagues Malenice is gone, but the European Commission tells you you have a completely unsettled wage mechanism in the public sector, counterpart Bosnjakovic is a slow, unworthy judiciary, high parafiscal impose, Horvat has no, waits for Ćoric, but also has a backdrop from poor waste management. And in the end, the underdeveloped railway network, there is no Butkovic. Everything you should have done in 6 months, the European Commission has told you completely clearly, do it now, it is your luggage, you have to do it and you are responsible for it. And that's why the money that came to the Republic of Croatia is not a senzo of strict helicopter money, that's the money you need to use, that's the money you have to make projects, run an economy and stuff. What I suggest, I suggest, of course, digitization and, of course, absolutely waiting lists. Aladrović, get an answer to HZMO's pattern is impossible, your system doesn't work, impossible, ask micro small and medium entrepreneurs, nothing they know, can get anything on line, absolutely nothing. Digitalize the system, otherwise, absolutely otherwise it will end badly. And of course, I'm sorry to say that, for example, Mrs. McNally. Shuica did not support the proposal of our European Socialists. Of the 8 billion that were to go to health, we received only 1 billion, colleagues Beros, only one billion, and they promised 8 billion. Ask your Vice President Shuicu what she did about it and why absolutely nothing was done health care? Of course, health care isn't part of the AKI. But this was a unique opportunity for counterpart Beros to reunite Europe in public health. Try something. Here's my suggestion. Try, try, come out with a proposal that this year the EU and the Republic of Croatia come out together for a tender for the purchase of flu vaccines, you will save hundreds of millions of kunas, and this is not working, at least do something for the Republic of Croatia, for Europe, for our second country. For all of this, respected gentlemen of the Ministers, or Mr. Prime Minister, it takes both vision and courage. Like he says... , quote “Train and courage are not enough without trouble and without direction” finished quote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't say that the prime minister doesn't bother, he's not here today, but in principle he sits, he sits, he sits, he sits regularly, he has absolutely not shown courage until now, the direction and purpose, and you haven't done, you haven't made a national development strategy 20.30. And Mrs. McNally. Minister Tramišak said exactly that in her first interview, that's the key, but it's Mrs. Ministers of the future tail of your government, the luggage of your government, without it we can't do anything, we can't do anything under the new financial envelope, we can't do anything with other strategic documents, the pilarras of all these sectors, all of these ministers and their systems are going to pull zero kuna, penny, don't fall out of the sky, the EUR-s don't fall out of the sky. I repeat, this isn't helicopter money, senzo stricto, this is the money we have to use in accordance with the rules of Europe. Civil society is the foundation of so-called civil society. The normal democracy of the 21st century. ... There's something called a triple wheel, it's made by the government, it's made by entrepreneurs who feed us, and of course it's an academic community, it's a standard triangle, that triangle has turned into a quadruple thanks to civil society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you have now done to civil society for the last five years is that 600 days have not solved a single civil society development competition that is a coup against civil society. I will repeat the coup against civil society through the financial depletion of civil society because it does not suit you through administrative violence because it does not suit you. And that's a serious, serious problem. For 5 years, Ministers have not announced a single tender concerning the financing of NGOs in terms of corruption, conflict of interest, or one. And corruption, and we all know what it is, facebook knows what we like, what we bark, Google knows what we're looking at, teleopers know who we're talking to, and we can't do anything to put state finances on the portals at last. But look at our Mirela Ahmetovic, look at her budget of her municipality, it's all clicked on the mouse, you get it. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, look up Michael not Scharl, our Michel Mayor of Koprivnica, Michel Jaksic, see his electronic public procurement system. You have examples. You have examples. Digitalization is an absolute priority, finally to see when, who and where he buys, not in the late hours of the night. Media, I just asked the prime minister what's up with the media, so look at the media freedom index, we're in 59 places, Madam Minister, 59 places, a disaster. Slovenia is on 30th, Czech Republic 33, Slovakia in the 40th, BiH is watching 51st, and we are in 59th place. And then we put the media in culture. That's what I asked the prime minister. Look, there's his chief of staff they're both francophiles. There is no Mr. Headmaster, head of the office, there is no state in the EU that has the name of culture and media, there is culture and cultural heritage, there is culture and cultural heritage, there is culture in Ireland protection of their Irish language, there is in France you know it and therefore oversize itself for, for diaspora French, but culture and media is nowhere. Don't do that. Now I've Googled it because the prime minister didn't answer me. You know where there is in Vučić's Serbia, circle it, Google it. Ministry of Culture and Information, only there and in Croatia. Is that new sovereignty? Is that on the trail of Orban's laws? That's what we as an opposition expect from you, education has two goals. Improve knowledge and skills and spread the truth of fellow Fuchs about the Homeland War and you and I were defenders, but don't finally give up after 30 years to restart the truth about fighting fascism, about antifascism let it enter the basic textbooks of folk schools and high schools, that's something that's important. And finally allow me to paraphrasise the statement by our esteemed Mr Plenkovic, who spoke nicely, if that is true, on the European Council to fellow prime ministers, either you are statesmen or you are passersby. Mr. Prime Minister, smart people learn from other people's mistakes. None of us here, none of us around the world can live long enough to make all these mistakes. Learn from your peas, learn from other people's mistakes, and today you start again with the same mistakes, and it won't, it won't just end well. And we're still hearing statements from the prime minister about the fineness of the new parliamentary deputies. So how about lower? Dear gentlemen, that's not how statesmen behave. They don't judge psychological profiles they don't talk about the tension, I know it's time, don't worry, but I'm waiting for a vice president who's democratic unlike you colleagues no matter what you nod my head off, but if you're glad I'm gonna break up right now because I know I hit you right where you need to be shot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u964	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we heard Mr Ostojić's SDP representative, and he elaborated very nicely, and I expected him to explain to us where this was missing 12 mandates from the campaign that you published daily that the Restart coalition would win 12 seats more. It is likely that voters have recognized the SDP's empty rhetoric and the Restart coalition throughout the mantada.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u966	Now, colleagues, please, before you knew how to tell others to get in, etc., I'm asking you nicely, let's not leave the place. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u967	Dear Greek, be parliamentary and listen and let me finish on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, and because you are not satisfied with the results of the election and that Croatian citizens have recognized who works, who cares and who is responsible, and who is empty, who talks a lot, who buzzes a lot, and little honey gives it a different story now. In any case, I will say what I intended to say on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, which is that the appointment of the Government is in fact the end of the election process for the parliamentary elections. And as much as I am the Law on Elections for the Croatian Parliament is also talking about the procedure of electing representatives in the Croatian Parliament, this election process ends only tonight when the Prime Minister is appointed and when his government is appointed. I remember that the process, because I was in the assembly at the time, began on 18 May when we made a decision on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament and in which the debate was just on the left hand side of the assembly saying that the elections were a shortcut, a reverse, that they were not taken into account by the interests of Croatian citizens, that we are dragging them into uncertainty because of the Corona epidemic, that there would be a great summer of heat so there would be no elections, and we have witnessed probably more democratic elections than the establishment of a sovereign and independent Republic and that there were almost no serious objections in these elections. Now I must say that during the morning it is scandalous to say that there is a shadow of instability in these elections because of allegedly unconstitutional elections held in the 12th constituency. When someone says that the elections are unconstitutional because of the election in the 12th constituency, they either slept through for 10 years or did not understand the character of the constitutional court or worse, he understands but deliberately distorts it. The Constitutional Court also made it clear that the elections for representatives of national minorities in the 12th constituency are absolutely in line with the law and the Constitution. The Constitutional Court spoke of the inability of double voting rights in 10 electoral units in Croatia when there is general voting law. So that is the feature of the Constitutional Court of Justice that the current Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been resolved and after that elections were not held that day in July 2011, so it would be good for someone to teach the lady that such blood, dangerous, malicious thesis on the unconstitutionality of the elections for the Croatian Parliament no longer stands. Secondly, on the delivery of material at the last minute or 40 minutes or not, or I don't know how long before the start of the debate on the government's programme and the appointment of members of the government, I would recommend to a serious representative to monitor the recent events in Croatian political life and to follow them, knowing that the president of the Republic of Croatia had given the mandate eight days ago to the president of the HDZ who won the election and that he won his election with his "Safe Croatia" programme and that if he wanted to prepare for the debate, he could assume that the programme that the electoral winner will present here in the Croatian Parliament would be the programme with which he won. There are no colleagues, Bauk, but my colleague Bauk tells me we're not a party state, so we're here to discuss the HDZ programme. What about the program? I hope the winning party doesn't promote the losing party programme, it's clear in itself. Therefore, we have completed this program with which we have won along with the programme of our coalition partners and I think it was enough time for a serious representative to prepare for him and conduct a debate here in the Croatian Parliament. But listening to the debate in the Croatian Parliament so far, we could have delivered the program a month or three days ago, the debates would have been about the same because Mr. Ostojić's appearance indicates that he had arrested in the Croatian Parliament for four years and that he did not follow what was happening there. In which the state of HDZ in 2015 and then 2016 came to Croatia, the financial situation of the state budget, what were macroeconomic indicators in Croatia, and that in the past four years we have just dramatically changed these macroeconomic indicators because in the past four years and on this work we have based this programme which today the Prime Ministers and the Prime Minister presented in the Croatian Parliament. In this paper, which has been successful in the past four years, which has allowed GDP growth in Croatia to grow at an annual level of 3%, growth in average and minimum wage, growth in pensions that have allowed the tax discharge of citizens, which has never allowed a greater number of employees and never fewer unemployed in the sovereign and independent Republic, which, ultimately, thanks to such work and such macroeconomic indicators, has allowed us to have credit agencies in the world our credit rating that before this government was at waste level, raised to the level of investment credit rating. So these are successes, these are moves, projects and programmes of the government, which, thanks to the work, won the parliamentary elections. Because if it hadn't been for such successful work, that the citizens are not in this government today, and this party who has given confidence saw serious, responsible and passionate politicians fighting for Croatia... in the elections won. And it is not in politics, I would tell Mr. Ostojić only enough passion, passion is desirable, passion is good in life and politics, but if this passion does not follow knowledge, does not follow value, does not follow engagement, does not follow knowledge of political life in Croatia and outside of Croatia then that passion breaks up like a bubble of soap and of this passion there is nothing. We've shown with this program that we know because he came from our work four years ago, but the more people in us recognized politicians, officials, ministers who proved themselves in times of crisis. And the crisis in the past four years has been overrun and the crisis over Agrokor, and the migration crisis where Croatia has not felt that there are tens of thousands of migrants standing on the border with BiH on a daily basis. And we preserved Croatia, there was peace in Croatia, and it was a major crisis where as a government and a party we knew how to answer that I am not saying that we were faced after II. svt. The war with the biggest crisis, the crown crisis that affected the whole world and Europe, and in this crisis we knew how to respond and we saved the health of our fellow citizens and the massive support of nearly 6 billion kuna, for 600,000 employees in more than 110 000 entrepreneurs, we saved the Croatian economy but we could not because we only have the passion to help but had the knowledge to fix public finances in Croatia over the past 4 years and to ensure that we almost easily deliver that money to Croatian entrepreneurs and to preserve their liquidity and to preserve them so that we can face the crisis that is still ahead of us. And we won that program, and that's why we got citizens' trust, and as we were able to present a quality program in this same assembly four years ago, we have now upgraded this programme with a number of new projects, programmes that are ahead of us in this mandate, which I am sure will be even more successful. And what is our first priority, this is, in any case, spending, the realisation of 22 billion euros that we managed to negotiate at European Commission level in Brussels. So this will be our priority to make full use of these 22 billion euros secured from the new multiannual financial framework and the European recovery programme for new generations, in a way that ensures Croatia a rapid recovery of the economy and investment in priority areas defined by this programme. These 22 billion-euro funds are an important signal to all our citizens, to all our members, to the business world, to investors, to financial markets but also to globally. In fact, the amount of 22 billion euros is the result that exceeded our goal and expectations. These funds are not dear friends, by chance came to Croatia, on the basis of very high quality, strong elaborate arguments and for such a strong and elaborated argument, they should also know the financial situation in our country and the conditions in which Croatia has fought for it and for the fact that we have used only one multiannual financial framework of 7 years and the other members have used 2 or 3 at least of these European budgets and for this reason, we were able to provide such large funds for the recovery of Croatia and for the recovery of the Croatian economy. But what I want to point out in the end on behalf of the HDZ Club is that in these five chapters that we have listed in our programme, and relating to Croatia's social security, perspective future, economic sovereignty, strengthened statehood and global visibility, when they come down to important priorities, concrete steps are before us, as the Prime Minister has already said during the morning. We are confident on the basis of what we have done in the past term, that we will open up in the next 100 000 new jobs, that we will raise the average salary by 1100 kuna and that at the end of our mandate it will be 7600 kn, that we will increase the minimum wage to 4250 and we speak with the knowledge and confidence that these data are secure because behind us the mandate in which we have achieved such figures and such growth and minimum and average wages. And that as a message of concern for demographics, not only through the establishment of the Central State Office for Demography and Youth, not only because of the fact that we will be running social policy in the ministry, but also for the reasons that we are in the past term of parental compensation as a sign of concern for the demographic restoration of Croatia, more than double the parental fees and now we are talking in this programme that we will devise them. So for the first time in its program, one government clearly states that it will de-commit parental fees so that our mothers, after they turn six months old, will receive the salary they had before giving birth. Furthermore, we send a clear message to young people that in the next term we will provide 20,000 housing loans with subsidized State budget funds. What is important and what will enable us to grow wages, these are further tax redundancies in terms of income tax rates from 36 to 30 and from 24 to 20 which will clearly already result in an increase in personal income other than wages. We have already disbursed entrepreneurs in this mandate in a work relating to profit tax. You know that the overall profit tax rate was 20% and then we put it down to 18% for all entrepreneurs in Croatia and for those with incomes of less than 7.5 million kuna, we reduced it to 12%. Now we're going one more step further, and for entrepreneurs whose income is 7.5 million kuna, we're going to cut the profit tax rate to 10%. And just for a little while, on the subject of the Ministry of Culture and Media. Well, my dear friends, we here in the Parliament have one of the most important working bodies and it's called the Information, Information and Media Committee. So if we have such a working body in the House, It never occurred to anyone to trouble you, I don't see why you should now if that's part of your name is the Ministry of Culture. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And the media, here I thank Mr. Vice President, so I end up, so it's nothing new in Croatia's legislative life, thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u968	The next Club of Representatives will be the national minority on behalf of which they will speak, or time, to be shared by respected representatives of Bilek and Jankovics, first respected representative of Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u969	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Minister, respected candidates for ministers, vice-presidents of the Croatian Government, respected colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with this opportunity that the talks we, representatives of the national minorities, held with the mandate, Mr Andrej Plenkovic and his associates on the preparation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, were led in the spirit of mutual respect, as well as respect for the current situation. These talks also resulted in the signatures of support from all members of the National Minority Club for the term of office. We paid particular attention in our talks to the protection of the rights of national minorities, regional and rural development and the use of EU funds. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme that you received today and presented today by Mr Plenkovic, which, on the basis of which we will support its choice, included in a political way all topics through which we believe will be maintained, achieved and improved in certain areas, the position of all citizens of the Republic, including members of national minorities. Accordingly, we expect the government to develop an operational programme for individual national minorities in the first 60 days, which we have already started talks to bring priorities into line. The implementation of these programmes will be followed by agreed consultations with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We also expect to continue and improve the multi-annual programme for funding projects of local infrastructure, rural development, entrepreneurship and crafts in areas where historically living and members of national minorities. By means of this programme, many farmers, businessmen, as well as local self-government units in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia such as the municipalities of Punovci, Nova Bukovica, the city of Ilock and many others, and tomorrow the contracts for local self-government units in the area of Bjelovarko-Bilogorska County are signed in Šandrovec, with the basis of the measures initiated by SDSS and proposed by the National Minority Representatives Club, the Končanica Municipality will receive funds for the construction of an auxiliary building and a roof for fire vehicles, the Dežanovac municipality for the rehabilitation and modernisation of the legost, the Municipality of Hercegovac municipality for the construction of the area of the Associations, the Sirac municipality for the adaptation of part of the Croatian home in Sirač, the municipality of Džulovac for the adaptation of the unclassed road, the Grubišni Polje polje za za restrukcija part of Hebrang Street, the city of the construction of the local units and the construction of the construction of the local units. Special emphasis was placed on the development of agriculture with the aim of increasing the self-sufficiency of the agricultural and food sector, especially through a more quality support programme, but also investment in the processing industry, so that we can find finished products of our producers on the shelves, above all. We want to reduce imports of food products and that export is not a large part of the raw material, but just finished Croatian products with added value. Protection of domestic products markets, reconstruction of the livestock stock with the aim of increasing meat production, as well as the restoration of the dairy sector, which is now almost destroyed and the development of all other sectors of agriculture, warfare, fruit growing, freshwater and marine fisheries, beekeeping, through rural development measures, and not only in basic agricultural production but also in the use of rural development measures in non-agricultural activities and in the service of the development of infrastructure of local self-government units such as those. through measures 741 we have so far had, were, kindergartens, pupils and nursing homes for which we now have projects in the Daruvar, Našica, Grubišni Polje, Ilock, but also other cities and municipalities. We also expect a continuation of the consistent application of the Constitutional Court decision by which no lower limit will be set for the number of students required to form class departments for members of national minorities. In addition, we expect the improvement of the establishment unit at the ministry responsible for education, in which the education of members of national minorities will be part, with particular emphasis on the education of children and young members of the Roma national minority. There is also the insurance of assumptions for the recognition of minority languages which have not yet been recognised in the Republic of Croatia, the improvement of the work of associations and institutions of national minorities, but also the completion and renewal of schools, school sports halls, for example, the completion of the hall in Hercegovac, the construction and reconstruction of the Cultural and Educational Centre Tkon, the completion and completion of the full function of the Slovak cultural centre in Nasice, the Czech cultural centre in Daruvar, the ethno house in Ivanovo Selo, Lipovljani, and the resolution of the problems with the areas for work in Rijeka, the restoration of the earthquake of the affected Zagreb is one special sector, but here, there it was injured, among others the Czech home in Zagreb, which I believe we will also restore. We want to strengthen international co-operation by signing new agreements, especially in the economy, but also by preparing new bilateral agreements on the protection of minorities, both minorities in the Republic of Croatia and Croat minorities outside the Republic of Croatia. I want to highlight the importance of providing EU grants that Mr Plenkovic has informed us about by using these funds to improve the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also to improve and improve transport and other infrastructure through capital projects such as the completion of the Pelješka bridge, the construction of new ferry ports such as those in Kono on the island of Pasman, improve the link and safety in road, rail transport in the Republic of Croatia and the continuation of the construction of the fast road Farkaševac-Belovar-Virovica, the reconstruction of DC5 Daruvar-Končanica-Grubisno Polje, with an emphasis on child safety, the construction of footsteps through Končanica, the reconstruction of the railway via Krindi in the area of Syrac and many others, as well as the construction of municipal infrastructures, water treatment and waste water treatment facilities such as those in the location behind Ljudevni Sela or one wording. We want to provide funds for the construction and equipment of hospitals such as those in Bjelovar, but also to provide structural and development support to innovators in rural areas and the implementation of innovations to develop the rural economy. The National Minority Club supports the government's composition as proposed by the mandater and we will monitor its work on all issues of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular national minorities, and in this way we will evaluate its work in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u970	The Honorable representative of the Jankovics will now continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u971	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, the respected future ministers. The item of the agenda is called Voting on Trust with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am one of the representatives who is here in the second term and I can say that trust is something that has long been created in life. Unfortunately, it's easy to get lost. And if we talk about voting the trust of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, I can also say on behalf of the National Minorities' Club and on behalf of myself that we and Andrej Plenkovic have worked together with his ministers during the past term and that this trust stands. I will not mention here the three-way things such as the construction of the Pelješko bridge, free textbooks, tax discharges, the largest number of employees, the incredible international position of the Republic of Croatia where we have the Vice-President of the European Commission for Democracy and Demography where we have the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, I will not mention non-essential things such as Agrokor, solving the problem of Agrokor, such as fires, floods and shipyards, or this big money that Croatia received from the EU thanks to our prime minister, I will mention one other very important thing, and that is that during the Government of Andreja Plenkovic, an operational programme for the national minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted, in my personal opinion, the most important document for national minorities since 2002 and the adoption of the Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, it is one historic step. Of course, we failed to implement everything because the circumstances were exceptional indistinguishable, but we have confidence, and this item of the agenda is called the trust of this prime minister, trust in this government, and I hope that, apart from the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and other MPs, we will see it that way. Of course, we will also operate on trust in this mandate through a government programme that we have agreed on over the past few days. He's good, he's enforceable, he's real, and we especially highlight the part about human rights and the rights of national minorities that will be adopted this time within 60 days, we expect by the end of September that we will also have this historic document for national minorities adopted, and for four years and implemented. What I can personally say as a representative in the second term coming from the east of the Republic of Croatia that major progress has been made in implementing the cultural autonomy of the Hungarian community living here. First of all, I mean here on education, many of you could see last year in November that we opened a new Educational and Cultural Centre in Osijek where two prime ministers were together, where a number of decisive messages were sent, where the dramatic and excellent promotion of the cultural autonomy of the Hungarian community is here. And what is often mentioned in this Parliament, and I will stress that I am also a representative of the Hungarian minority in the Croatian Parliament and as president of the Democratic Community of Croatia, but also as a member of the mixed committee on the protection of the Croatian minority in Hungary and the Hungarian minority in Croatia did everything to bring the rights of the Croatian minority in Hungary to one degree or to advance from what we were. If money is an objective meter, I can say that Croatian state-owned institutions in Hungary are called the Croatian minority roof institution in Hungary, the Croatian State Self-Government in Hungary only in the last year from the Hungarian government for the work of its 10 institutions received a normative 48 million kuna. This is the amount of funds that all minorities in the Republic of Croatia receive through the National Minorities Council for one year, only because of proportions is important. So this is also the importance of our representatives of national minorities to do everything we can to ensure that the rights of Croatian communities in those areas where they live outside Croatia, in particular in the case of Hungary, are improved. We are in excellent relations with them and consider how much I understand them and hear they are very pleased with that status. As vice-president of the National Minority Representatives Club, I can say first and foremost that we are very grateful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". We were regular myself personally at meetings of tips for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I stress that the three biggest Baranja problems that are indeed the problems of the Hungarian community that are living there building corridor 5C, that is, in this way, the development of the Baranja economy, which is in one course and the highway to Belog Manastir, should be reached in the next year and a half, but we are left with the unresolved problem that Baranjce is suppressing, and I believe that our current and future Minister Grlic Radman will do everything possible for these cross-border disputes with Serbia, in Baranja this concerns the issue of Kenya, it is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live on the left bank of the Danube who are achieving all the benefits. They have, for example, agricultural land that our water offices, so they realize incentives, and they cannot introduce their agricultural products to Croatia because of the border crossing, that this problem that is burning for Baranja for the Municipality of Draž will hopefully be solved in this mandate, and the biggest problem and the biggest old one for the Baranjci in these four years will be the solution... White or Forten's group on the future of Belje. These are not classic minority problems they are also minority problems because fate Baranja and fate Belje is exclusively related to our future Baranjac. So, if we're talking about concluding the trust of the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Andrej Plenkovic, I will repeat the words I said and when we first heard after the election that he had our trust in a much harder time than today and I want both him and the ministers a successful mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u972	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u973	Dear and esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, respected and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. I warmly welcome you all to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and the People's Party – Reformists. I will speak today on behalf of the club, but of course I cannot avoid speaking as a liberal, as the president of the Liberal Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party, but also on behalf of our partners in the club of the People's Party – the reformist of the party's President Radiir Cacic. HSLS alone was a pre-election partner of HDZ, many forget it, but precisely because of synergy in several electoral units and on the trail of all that and what Mr Plenkovic has advocated with his team, we have achieved a convincing firm victory that has enabled us to jointly create this proposal, that is, this election programme that is here today on your benches and which Mr Plenkovic also presented to you. Well said, a large part of that electoral program, the hand-to-heart is made by HDZ. What very pleased me was that we had several meetings, so coalition partners to remind the ruling majority at this point are the biggest HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Liberals' Club, the HSLS, the People's Party – reformists and no less important Club of National Minorities. Why does it matter to me personally as a liberal? First as a liberal, as a person who knows what it means to have national minorities in the ruling majority, and on the other hand as mayor of a central city in Croatia, where 21 of the 22 national minorities registered in the Republic of Croatia live. It is a guarantee that in the next 4 years, Croatia will retain everything that we need and must be adorned as a modern European country, these are civilization standards, it is a protection of the position of national minorities, protection of human rights and everything that has been said in Croatia for years, that is extremely poor. I personally think that is not the case and that this position can only be better in the consolidation of forces within this current ruling majority. I am particularly pleased that we all coalition partners have had the opportunity to participate in the post-election process of harmonising this programme. Of course, each of us have our own specifics I would say proposals, my own particular interests, which is legitimate and which is politically absolutely correct. And we're all as happy as I'm talking to my colleagues with everything that's in the election program. I believe that we are all responsible and reasonable people and politicians who will successfully implement what is in this programme, and I will now talk about what I am personally pleased with and with what is right in that programme, perhaps even to a greater extent than I expected. To this I am bound by the support I received from the personally preferred votes where I was one of the 25 mayors and 3 by the number of preferential votes won by these 25 of my colleagues. The only thing I communicated during the entire election campaign was the transparency that we have heard countless times today during many exhibitions right here in this high house. This transparency that many have told me will never be fulfilled, that we will never deliver it, that everything that has been done by not only the SDP's chiefs, the mayors, but also the HDZ's, to remind the second largest city, has also introduced transparency in Split, but transparency can only be brought to life if it is obvious to some of our colleagues, there are not many, but there are many, and they have always said under the lights of the reflectors, if they are legally ordered to do so. There are few of my colleagues who have done this and simply this process is too slow for him to go at this pace. I am therefore pleased that all parties of the ruling majority have supported exactly transparency and if you will take a good look at this proposal for the programme you will find that transparency has just been placed as one of the backbones of this programme, that it has been placed in several places and that is what pleases me, especially because it pleases me because it has been placed in that original form as done by the town of Bjelovar, as it has been done in the municipality of Omisalj, St. Week, Zlatar, Split or some other cities. Just so esteemed and respected colleagues and colleagues we can restore the bad trust that citizens have put before us I would say one challenge, citizens no longer trust the institutions too much, they don't trust the politicians, and with this concrete measure we return their trust because we simply send a strong message that we have nothing to hide, that we are responsible politicians and that there is a political will here in this high home that this law is being implemented. How, in which way we plan to do this, including HDZ itself, therefore it is always a matter of all political agreement and political compromise, HDZ as the largest party is extremely demanding that we also respect that through the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government half the number of states i.e. Local officials, to reduce a number of municipalities, but we also have our own request that we agree as responsible coalition partners that both transparency and transparent spending of public money will live at least at the level at this point specifically of the Law on Local Self-Government and that all mayors, mayors, mayors, have an obligation to show citizens how their money is spent. However, it is one thing that we personally commented on as a party, which we have promised our citizens, and now it is our turn to deliver. But that's not the only reason why we want to support this particular program and this kind of government as presented by the Prime Minister. The reason for this is also sought in some other things that we as liberals, as a liberal club that we share together with our friends from the People's Party – reformists, are primarily what reformists support tax discharge, the balanced development of Croatia, the division of European funds, the balanced development of some areas that simply have to and can go forward if they are allowed to do so, as is the case in the north, where Mr Cacic as mayor has his own demands, because he believes that the north can be further raised with minimal investment, of course my end of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, I promised to represent the interests of raising agriculture and therefore I am glad that agriculture is extremely high in position in this programme of government and that we will indeed have the opportunity to strengthen agriculture, local food production, self-sufficiency. Is it not indeed sad that we as a country know how many more or less tourists we will have each year, but we do not know how much food we will produce for them? It's very simple, what our citizens understand very simply, but what we can't just plainly deliver. On the other hand, of course, many times there has been digitisation said here, all that I and as mayor of the city of Bjelovar managed to deliver to my citizens now I have the honour, but also the obligation and the ability to deliver it right through the national level of government that truly digitisation should be brought to life as a concept, not only on paper, because the paper suffers, but that we really implement it to develop digitalisation, digitize public services, to allow our citizens in the 21st century to have that possibility. But in the end, it is not only a matter of citizens getting to that particular service, but we are making our own economy, our own administration more competitive, and we can do everything the same as Estonia did now, which is some sort of, I would say, example and example to everyone as an advanced country, which has used digitisation to catch up with much more developed EU countries. I am pleased, of course, by the reduction of red tape, the modernisation of public administration, is clearly indicated and it is a very strong and very strong message that we want to reduce the number of local officials, that we want to reduce all of them, I would say, the accumulated functions at local levels, I am aware that there is a lot of it, I disagree with the the thesis that all mayors, mayors and mayors, local sheriffs, have, but no, I would say, it is undeserved to put this one burden and one label on all my colleagues, and I know that there are plenty of them from both the SDP and the HDZ and from other parties who do their work with honor and responsibility, but it is nice to that label. I'm glad we decided to deal with this problem and we're going to rationalize the system of local self-government. Tax cuts are not a secret, for a long time I've been praising Minister Maric, he's not here right now, I think he's done a lot about the stability of public finances. The stability of public finances is also highlighted in the government's programme, I hope that we will reduce spending, that we will reduce the expensive state, that we will do everything to reduce red tape as well, I agree that a strong message is the reduction of ministries, but it is important to be honest and to say that it is equally important to reduce red tape in these ministries. I believe that we will do this, we see indications that there is a strong political will, and that is what makes me very optimistic in the coming period. Education as a topic, so which dominates, here dominates this part of 22 billion EUR that should come within the next few years in the Republic of Croatia, someone will say we don't have everything ready, we won't be able to take advantage of it. I just and honestly don't understand why in this country we're starting with why we can't do something, not why we should take advantage of something, take a chance and really do something. So, in the conduct of all my duties as much as I do politics, I know that it's always offered on the table first that something can't be done, only then how to make something concrete. We had yesterday and today during the speech and I talked to many colleagues who have been here for a long time, they said okay, maybe it's just the beginning now, but really a lot of speech pathetic, a lot of speeches that talk about, I'd say, about a situation that, all of the topics are represented, but somehow I feel like the least of the topics that are represented by our citizens and that deal with what we can provide citizens in the next 4 years. I may have spent too much time at the local level as mayor of one city, but believe me, we as mayors, and I'm glad that there's a lot of us here in this high house, I believe that we'll all contribute within our own clubs, within our own parties, to contribute to one spirit of constructiveism that will go back to HS and simply show that we came here not to receive some big salary because we're well paid for our conditions at local levels, but that we really came here because each of the mayors, mayors, local mayors, knows what is most needed, knows what projects are important and knows how to deliver these projects, how to advocate and how to fight for them here in this high home. We'll be supporting this program as a representative club, of course, this government. I do, maybe I'm in this sort of thing, I'd say, the enthusiasm and the take-off of everything we've been doing for the last four years. At the local level, which, which made us beautiful and by which I became personally recognized, might make me too optimistic. But indeed to any business I approach seriously, I approach with responsibility and so on and on today's vote of the new Croatian government for a four-year period and giving everything I'm talking about in my hands practically to Mr. Plenkovic's mandate to meet this programme, to make the most of our serious work and to be responsible people and to return the trust of citizens to both our institutions and our government and to show the citizens that next year we can make a stronger step, primarily through this opportunity that is being provided through European funds and that we finally give citizens a better life, a better standard, better conditions and to strengthen transparency. Thanks again and you have our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u974	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement, and time will be shared by respected MPs Vrkljan and Škoro, first respected representative of Vrkljan, Milan Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u975	Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin by congratulating you on the result you have achieved. Today, we focused on the report and the government's proposal to work and act in the next term of four years. and it is an opportunity to see what is written inside and how HDZ and its partners deal with problems in the Republic of Croatia. Personally, if you were watching this program without knowing who wrote it, I'd say bravo, raise my hand, this is something great. However, if we know that this is the second term of HDZ and its partners, then the question is, what is it that those in these previous four years couldn't do and now they've put it into the program, and even I've seen about the program that four years ago was quite similar? Definitely HDZ with its partners has 77 mandates, and it gives him the right to put together a government and will probably have enough hands, but there is one small stain in these 77 mandates, which is that Mr Milosevic, who is sitting here with us, must be aware that he is sitting in the wrong place. And to be clear right away, to us from the Homeland Movement is no problem for any national minority, we wrote in our programme that Croatia must be a happy country in which national minorities will exercise all their rights in the environment in which they live. And there's no one who can sway us, I think we're more liberal, more consistent than many of the parties that are classified to the left of us. But there's one problem we can't ignore, and that's what we're talking about is the Electoral Law, and some of us keep trying to put us talking about national minorities. We're talking about not being able to come to the Parliament or the Assembly under the law the Constitutional Court declared 10 years ago invalid with a number of votes that are not representative. At the same time as we talk about it, it should be said that the Croatian government should not and should not be voted by the votes of national minorities that I and we all respect. And we're willing to do and support every project that at local level helps them feel their own, that they feel that this is their homeland and that they feel that no one is discriminated against. I'm going back to the program now. I watched and listened to what we were saying today, it is interesting that all the clubs that have spoken before me, speak very in principle, it is not the meaning of this meeting, we today must speak of what we are pleased with and what we are not satisfied with in the proposal for the functioning of the Croatian government. So let's say entrepreneurship, which is the main problem of the Croatian state, our entrepreneurs in a very invisible position, our entrepreneurs everywhere they come, are talking about how to liberalize the state apparatus, how they can't be made under the repressive apparatus, first of all, I think that the inspectorates. In addition, we are still a country where hassAPs, sanitary books and various other burdens on the economy that no longer exist in any EU country. What's the problem with the government not being able to remove any of these charges in the last four years? The government came out with a programme that showed how much it would reduce, disburse the economy, but only from this point of parafiscal charge, Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens are paying what they put into the budget, which parafiscally imposes 6 billion kuna. 6 billion kuna is huge money especially for those on the market and especially for those on the market today at the time of the crown and crisis throughout Europe. Unfortunately, no word about it, and it's also clear to me that the right-hand side, you've agreed, probably a month you've written that program, so everything's clear to you, the left-hand side is silent, not a word. Furthermore, I am sorry that there is no Minister of Health because it would be my turn to be here today even though I appreciate Mr. Beros, I think he will be a good minister but it is undeniable that he had to sit here today and listen to what we all are going to say today. Croatian health care is currently 10 billion kuna. You know how much money that is? That's three Peles Bridges. Our health care is under the responsibility of three Peljeka Bridges. We've waited 20 years to raise enough money or to have someone give us credit to build the Peles Bridge and now we owe us 10 billion kuna in health care. We don't have anything in health care, our lists are the longest of all the countries we can compare with, we spend besides these 10 billion that we owe, and I saw that the finance minister doesn't understand what it is because yesterday he told reporters he was going to pay 500 000 million kuna, that's not the solution. So our health system is completely human and, by all other criteria, devastated. So let's say in Croatia you have... The camera, I'll simplify it so we can all understand, you have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and CT apparatus more than in one per 100,000 inhabitants, more than in one country where we can refer, so we have more CT apparatus than the Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, even Slovenians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have you ever heard of our Europarliamentaries, have you ever heard of the Czech Republic or Slovakia having a problem with the waiting list? You're not. Because there's a system there. At our place, while in Zagreb there is a year to do a search, at the same time this search in a place 50 km away is done 5 searches a day and no one knows there are free terms. Furthermore, very important, our HZZO, the Croatian Health Insurance Office, which has a budget of 27 billion kuna, is probably the only insurance house in Croatia that does not follow the outcome of the treatment. You do not have treatment outcomes per medicine and per patient. I'm not going to go into the details, there's going to be an opportunity to talk more about it, I'd just briefly look back at the demographics because I made a deal with my president that we'd share time. Look, yesterday I listened to this former minister of social care talking about demographics, so that was really ugly to listen to. The lady praised herself with a HDZ colleague that she had been a successful mandate all along. Hey, let's stop. 300 thousand Croatian citizens have moved out of Croatia in the last 5 years. You know how much that is? It is as if no citizen in Croatia is born for the next 8 years. Eight years because we have an average of 30,000 people. So if someone told you if you accepted that no one was born in Croatia for the next 8 years, that's it. And then the minister boasts, even when someone worse objected to her, even took her right to throw it to him, to criticise him, yes, the man couldn't end up praising her. In this program, you haven't seen five sentences of demographics. You could still talk a lot about it, I'll mention the potential Minister Fuchs isn't here. Unfortunately, our University of Zagreb, first of all, is talking about the University of Zagreb is at a very low level, one of the worst universities in Europe. Unfortunately, there are also the Dalmatians and this Rijeka, the Zagreb University has become a worse university, the mother of all reforms is the University of Zagreb, the University of Zagreb is not working. You when you say "professor." Grossman in London that you have a smart guy who wants to come work with him, he sends you a notice that he can take him in seven days. It's been a year with us. For now, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u976	The Honorable counsel, Skoro, will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u977	Thank you very much, Professor. Wretched. Here's how internal democracy works with us, time is divided so he's been talking for 11 minutes, and I'm going to be 2, 3. If someone were to do any serious scientific work, the key research question that would be raised today in this debate is how much it really takes in the air for this government to vote. 76, the professor was wrong. The ruling majority has 76 hands and no matter what we say today, no matter how long it lasts, it will probably last until late into the night, half of them will fall asleep, we will vote this government at any cost and it will be measuring from tomorrow. Well, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, if he's here, future ministers. What I'm trying to say is that we won't support that government. Yesterday we gave support when the bill was passed under which this government could be formed, but we won't give for the simple reason why I know there are honest people here among future ministers and I think that they, not that they won't want to, but simply won't be able to vote anything good and do anything good in that structural sense. There will be no change when it comes to election law because we have problems with election units and electronic voting, there will be no change in the entrepreneurship climate because, one thing is when the government boasts, when the prime minister ex or future speaks about the fact that they create preconditions to create new jobs, but also create preconditions for which Meggle goes away, which is why the British American Tobacco leaves, which is why we lose jobs, will not talk about a referendum, so structural changes will not be. This government will function as it has worked before and it is well said and it is true that HDZ has decided to have a Continuity Government and that, as announced and announced, it will co-operate with world-wide similar parties. That's what's important to say, so HDZ with the SDSS, with liberals, reformists, the HNS will form that fragile majority of 76 hands in the air that will support project co-operation as has happened so far. Project cooperation and clean trade. I-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm... It's like any market. Well, here's the fragile and ruby majority who will vote the government tonight, I wish you every good, and I must say on behalf of the Homeland Movement, we will support every proposal, every law that will benefit Croatian citizens, for the benefit of Croatian citizens and for the benefit of all our people and our country. But the key question, when I look at you from this position, is who's the next coin. That's what the media is interested in, that's what Croatian citizens and those who are watching us are interested in. We can discuss it. We'll probably be up to one, two, three in the night. When television cameras go out, then we'll probably give up the debate, we'll vote the government, but the key question, so who's the chip, and the view from this pay phone basically indicates that we're all together here at the Swedish table. I hope we hold out and we'd rather go to new elections than be chips. Thank you very much. We even stuck together 15 minutes ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u978	Thank you very much. A colleague named Bacic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vrkljan inappropriately spoke of Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic as a problem in his position as Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Boris Milosevic, first of all, is the Deputy Prime Minister, and secondly, he comes from the ranks of the SDSS and Mr. Vrkljan, I said this earlier, the Constitutional Court has annulled the provisions of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities guaranteeing the Serb national community in Croatia three seats in parliament on the basis of general electoral law in 10 constituencies, but the Constitutional Court has never,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u980	.../Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bačić./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u981	...remember neither the Serb national minority nor...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u982	.../Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bačić./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u983	...any other national minority challenged...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u984	.../Intruder Reiner: It's your time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u985	...disputed the selection of eight minority MPs in XII. The electoral unit, it's an important distinction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u986	Comrade Bačić, your time has run out and secondly, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've already asked nicely, please. You have the opportunity to always replicate, replica, of course you can't when it comes to the club but after the individual debate can always be replicated but don't abuse instead of the institutions of replication, an institution of injury to the Rules of Procedure. The next Club of Representatives is the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Tulio Demetlika will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u987	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, I don't know if there are any other members of the future government, colleagues and colleagues. In my opening presentation, I would first of all like to congratulate all my colleagues and colleagues on the parliamentary mandates achieved and also on my congratulations to colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and their partners for their victory. What we in IDS expect from this assembly is to restore our reputation and dignity to this, the highest body in the Republic of Croatia. Today, unfortunately, we cannot know what this assembly's gonna be like, but we know very well what it shouldn't be, and that's a rerun of last term. I hope that in this session we will not look at the presentation of MPs from the assembly, that there will be no conflict to the limit of physical reckonings, that there will be no mutual insult and humiliation, hate speech and impatience. That's the minimum we owe our citizens and what's the maximum? It's up to us as much as possible. It depends on us whether this home will truly be recognized as a place where problems are solved and our society is governed. The election is behind us. The percentage of citizens' turnout in the elections shows how much they actually believe in us politicians and will depend on us whether this percentage of turnout will be higher in the next elections, about 60, 70% or the current percentage will shrink further. It is also up to us to trust citizens in the institutions of this country which are currently among the lowest in Europe. And now we come to what is most important, which is that the greatest responsibility is not to envy you, but to you who are in the ruling coalition that through the government and the ruling majority in the Parliament, you are pulling all the strings, and that is why I am talking to the prime minister as well as to the other members of the future government, that it is you who have the opportunity to change the old, established paradigm of this Parliament's work. During your campaign, but also in the last session, you kept calling, and today and yesterday we heard that you were calling for unity, calling for national unity, calling for knowledge of the good of Croatia and its citizens. But from today's presentation, it's just that it's gone. That is why we in the IDS expect that in this mandate there will be more hearing on your part for quality criticism, different thinking and constructive proposals that certainly strengthen the country, the Parliament is strengthened. Because as we know, some of the most developed countries in the world are known for their culture of political dialogue. On the other hand, exclusion and doctoring distance us from the developed world. When we look at the Government Programme, we can conclude that often, not only in this work but often in programmes, more political options, programmes overlap, but so far the practice has shown that the draft laws, amendments coming from the opposition, generally refuse to mention the adoption of the Republic of Croatia budget where we advocate, we try to present certain projects and programmes for the environments from which we come without ever having heard or accepted a mandate in the past term, and then you call for community, national unity and in the fight for the interests of all citizens of the Republic. We may be a little naive, no matter what year we have, but we were hoping that with the change and this election, it would stop the practice but today's process of presenting the future government and its programme, I'm sorry, but you're continuing as you are. As a future government, you could also read the programs of other political parties, rise above your bell towers, and maybe install some parts of these exactly because these programs were good for the citizens of this republic, and that is why we who have received trust and voice in the opposition. You didn't get 100% votes in the Republic of Croatia so you could take your money and tell all of this is ours, you got that 51 compared to some 49. And in this way you would show the width, show good will, and you would show the respect you often mention in your speeches that you respect all MPs, all their thinking and their suggestions, but unfortunately that is lagging behind. Because we too have been elected by our citizens, and therefore we expect you to support other citizens who have not given you a vote. Therefore, it is an opportunity for you to co-operate and to share with each other often, show the works and then to talk, as Mr Bacic said, about the serious parliamentary representatives, and I will talk about the serious government of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just the governments of the HDZ and its partners. One more thing you'd like to say to your colleague Bačić, one human advice, I can say friendlyly, one proverb says that he does not rise in victory, and in defeat he does not humble himself. And in this context, the way you will use the funds from the EU's recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework will be a test of your democracy, as well as your willingness to finally reject this failed centralist way of managing and finally define ourselves as a society for decentralisation, to establish a new modern system because this after 25g. Obviously, it doesn't work anymore. And despite the fact that some have not given you a vote, I hope that in this term you will also represent citizens who have not given you a vote, that you will also represent the interests of those citizens who have not gone to elections at all, and not only satisfy the HDZ voting body. All of us who have received the trust of the citizens of this country are here to fight for their interests. We got a vote because of the policies and programs that we represented to the citizens. Because when people vote, specifically for IDS, they know exactly what they're getting and the IDS will continue to fight in this assembly for the interests of Istria, Liberia and Kvarner. And I have to say that I'm sorry that the Prime Minister in his opening statement mentioned all parts of the Republic of Croatia, but whether he deliberately or accidentally forgot about Istria, he forgot to mention Kvarner. But regardless of this, we from IDS will continue to fight to raise civilizational standards in society, for the rapid development of the economy and economy, for transparency and don't worry, we will continue to be hardworking workers who will properly fulfil their obligations to this country, which will continue to fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so that we will work and carry out our obligations. And that is all in order to reduce the difference in the level of development compared to the most developed parts of the country, but we will fight not to hold back those who are most ready and responsible. As we have already said many times behind this speaker, and we have proved by our actions, that we are for solidarity and we feel that we always need to help those weaker and less developed areas, but this must not be at the heart of those most developed. Simply, it is necessary to stop the practice of making strong cuts to help the weaker ones, rather than finding a model to help the weaker ones, while the stronger ones grow even more, make even more progress, and to draw even better. Our prime minister has great experience in the negotiations in the European Council and he knows very well that countries like the Netherlands, such as Denmark, Germany, will not hold back their own development at the expense of support to the most undeveloped countries in Europe such as Croatia, Romania or Bulgaria. They have recently debated in Brussels for 4 days and 4 nights, not counting on the time they had spent before to adopt this financial plan, but after 4 days and 4 nights, they have reached a consensus on the adoption of the budget for the EU's multiannual financial period, and we have the same prime minister who has the experience of the European Council, to deliver to us this government's work programme for an hour or 45 hours before the start of the debate, and you expect in this community, in national unity, that we vote and to support and give confidence to this government. Unfortunately, from your conduct, we can conclude from the very beginning of this assembly that you continue at the same rates without respecting or respecting the opposition, and thus the institution of the assembly. You have 76 votes, and you will also vote in confidence. A new government and a program of this government, but we, for the sake of this above and seen, are not going to support this government from the IDS Club. But I also have a message for those of us who are in opposition. I hope so, and I call on that as an opposition, we will be quality, constructive, but above all, civilized. And in the end, I want all of us to have a lot of success in our work and to achieve the goals that we have promised our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u988	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u989	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister and future members of the government, colleagues and colleagues I know from earlier and those I don't know, with whom we will be working for the next four years, allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. I'd like to say that I'm not here for the first time, for this pay phone, and I'd like to say that and if there's any reason for anyone to remind me or anyone from the SDSS that they know where they are, I'll say I know very well. And many of the people I've worked with in this country know that I know a lot of people I've worked with or cooperated with outside this country also know that I know. To those who don't know it, I'll put it on the line so they don't know yet, but that they'll learn. This also applies to the future Deputy Prime Minister from the ranks of members of the national minorities of elected envoy Boris Milosevic. He knows where he's sitting. And what others may not know, I'll just say something others don't know. Behind Boris Milosevic, there was no statute of limitations, no business, no war, none of it. Nothing the law sanctioned, and some segment of the law subsequently abolized behind Boris Milosevic. And so I ask this young man that those who have fallen asleep at one point in their lives, some who are easier, and some who are harder, leave alone to do a job that will be entrusted to him and for whom he is chosen, and take care of himself and his conscience as any of us who comes out for this pay phone and reaches for the word as the main weapon that we have to take care of at any moment. I'm aware of what he's saying, which means what he's going to do to someone who's talking, and even to whoever that speech is, he was mentioned or was a mere listener. And that's where I'm gonna stop. This place and that place here or anywhere else or up there. We certainly have a reason to call out, but what we all have to call upon is the Constitution and everyone who wants to teach us war patriotism or religious patriotism, if he forgets constitutional patriotism has forgotten the foundation of each and every one of these countries. I've learned enough about it in my seven terms and those who come with me to learn it as my first lesson and those who came here to the assembly can say that I have the right to remind them of it. And whoever before that constitutional patriotism puts something else on the Constitution put a boot. As sacred as that boot may be, it is not on that document, the highest legislative document. He put a boot in this place, this house and this country. And now what's the subject, if there's only a few more minutes left, and I was hoping that that kind of thing in this country after 30 years we won't waste any time. The program in which we have been involved in some form is one of those possibilities. If someone else was a prime minister, I would probably offer another programme, but one of those opportunities to put an end to some things after 30 years and start building the future of this society in accordance with the union of which we are members and in which we have yet to build the right place for all our citizens and for our country. And we'll have a hard fight for it. And it won't be easy at any time. Not even when we win, let alone when we lose because none of these places have been given, as national minority representatives have not been given that place, let alone donated, let alone respected colleague Vrkljan, co-worker on a double basis, academic and parliamentary. If I could talk about a pituitary like you, I'd talk about it, but I know I don't. And the fact that you're talking about the Constitutional Court's decision the way a chick in Dolce speaks when I hear you, that's inadmissible. It's about as if a chick would talk about pituitary as you talk about constitutional law and constitutional court and you and some of your colleagues because you're demeaning the constitutional court and his words and to the people spreading defetism and untrueness, the more lies we need, the more lies we need, lift your finger as much as you want, but unfortunately, because the Constitutional Court has said that there are no guaranteed mandates for anyone based on general electoral law, but representatives of national minorities based on the Constitution of the Republic, Article. In addition to general voting rights, in particular the right to vote, and on the basis of this special electoral right since the first act of the Croatian Constitution, so far, and that is why there has been a story here that minorities are a constituent part of modern Croatian statehood, however much they contribute, but they are and are chosen in this way. And it is harmful for the Republic of Croatia to say that these elections are illegal and that the people involved in forming this majority are illegal. And to those who talk about the trade coalition, I'm going to say this, behind the SDSS, there's not a single chain of trade, and I don't know that there's any trade chain behind any other, as it stands behind some parties calling us out for the sake of trade, and don't tell me what the trade chain is because I wouldn't want to do anyone any harm. So if the Prime Minister is going to Brussels, if the president of the Dutch government is going to Brussels, why do you think he's going? Don't teach me my job. You didn't pay attention to your words, not during the election campaign, and don't even look out here in this important place. So don't tell me how much I can raise my hand and how I can. I certainly can't, I certainly don't raise her the way some raise her outside this assembly and I never will. If Mr. President of the Dutch Government, the Dutch Government, is fighting for the interests of the Netherlands and is fighting for its country's customs revenues to be greater than they have ever been, if the president of the Croatian government is going to vote for what the Republic of Croatia will get from 2 sources from a multi-annual financial framework to more than ever, whether it was trade, the result of heavy negotiations, difficult combinations, and you should know to attribute the character of commercial political behaviour to ethnic, religious or racial minorities from the 30s to 45s, resulting in the policy of extermination of Jews, Roma and Slavic populations in a significant part of the then occupied Europe of Nazi and fascist ideology. And when you say that, be aware that you're creating the ground for such a fate and such a story about people who have nothing to do with it, negotiate their rights, rebuild their houses, have water, have roads, have jobs. What do you think is the job of a representative in HS besides, that they can live in peace, that they don't have to listen every once in a while to be insulted, that they don't have to listen to their representatives every once in a while and tell them where they belong. Can you imagine someone telling you where you belong because you have antiquity after the verdict that was given to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u990	The next Club of Representatives is that of the IP, Smart and Glass, in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u991	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, distinguished Prime Minister Plenkovic, respected old and new members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I have extraordinary honor and responsibility and some kind of pleasure to be here for the first time speaking from this pay phone on behalf of the so-called. the female club or club of parties which make up the Party with a name and last name, Smart and Glass. And I can immediately say that we will not support the new government's proposal. It has come and it seems to me that it is high time that, after the success of these elections and the meetings in Brussels of our new old prime minister, we bring the clouds down a little bit into reality. And to bring all of us down to reality, I'm sure there's no better incentive than to discuss the new HDZ government. And that idea itself that this is about the new government is very problematic. In the past session, we have talked several times about changes in the then government, and occasionally these changes have been more than they are now. First of all, there is nothing new in this government, the HDZ as well as we know it, and unfortunately it started with big announcements about so-called. the godlike reorganization, and it ended with the stroking of the eyes of the public, the cosmetics without any content, and yet it was combined incompatible and offices were established where there was no idea where to start, for example. with young people and demographics. We can bet when we see each other at the end of the term that everything will remain as was the first step, cosmetics without content. Why? All of this is a well-known team, a team that didn't really show up, and in the past, most of these people were either bad or invisible or both, we're just waiting for how long the next affair will come first or better. It's not a question of whether or not, it's just a question of when and who. Will the game be led this time by a economical resistor and sustainable development where the tails are already being drawn, what kind of skeletons will fall out of a closet in the Department of Defense? Maybe this time with affairs the judiciary and the administration will go. The question isn't whether or not. It's just who and when. The question is the same: Will the ministers start doing their jobs, will the health care finally start dealing with another topic besides the crown? Let us say to all those who suffer from another disease other than the crown, whose access to health care is a disgrace. Are we finally going to hear about it, for example? for the Ministry of Culture or Agriculture? Will European funds really finally work to not be the worst after withdrawing money across the EU? One of the huge jobs waiting for this government is the reconstruction of Zagreb. She will be led by a man you gave to the Ministry of Construction after a poor job in the comfort economy. Since yesterday's earthquake, four months have passed, you have managed to hold elections in the middle of the epidemic and to outsmart yourself all the time with your coalition partner, Mr. Bandic, about the reconstruction, but for Zagreb you haven't found a minute and now you expect us to support this solution for the competent ministry. We won't. As I said, most of this government has already been seen in action and we haven't been the least impressed. There's absolutely no reason to think that these people are going to be more successful this time. In addition to those we already know, there are several new names in this government that we have not yet seen in the work as ministers or as in the case of the proposed Minister Fuchs, we haven't seen them in a long time. Well, here's when I mentioned the proposed Minister Fuchs, he's got a huge job to do. Our education is ruined, I think we can say that it is in worse shape than it was when Plenkovic's government took over. Partly because of objective circumstances. Infringed school years due to the coronation of the virus, but the situation in school is mainly due to tragic political corruption, which the HDZ maintained in the past term to most purchased coalition partners and their false reforms and failed to manipulate the strike. The future Ministers of Fuchs, not because of you, but because of the schoolboys, we wish you all the best and we want you to succeed. Unfortunately, since we know HDZ best, it's not what we expect. We also have another new minister in charge of European funds, after five years of HDZ in power, Croatia is the worst in the job in the EU. Not because someone from this pay phone is going to say it, but look at really those who are objectively estimating us. Our prime minister, our old new Prime Minister Plenkovic, can pack it any way he wants and claim that no one has a clue but him, but the facts are facts. According to the percentage of funds paid from eu funds, Croatia is the last one, the last one is not worse than us. Otherwise, it is particularly worrying that the prime minister and all those who believe in his twitters are putting a lot of hope into the 22 billion euros he allegedly brought with him to Brussels. I hope he didn't bring it in some black bag because if that's the case, it'll disappear very soon in HDZ. But joke aside. Only a small part of that money is a means of recovery from the crisis, and with this amount we cannot cover even the damage the Croatian economy has suffered so far. And all this new one is looking for projects and serious reform plans, whether to be paid out of eu funds, either as grants or loans for recovery. And in this withdrawal of money for projects from the EU funds we repeat, the worst in the EU. So how much will Croatia really see the money the prime minister boasts only remains to see. Unfortunately, when you have a certain experience, you don't expect the best. The problem is greater, given that the European recovery programmes are related to the implementation of the Green Plan, the green development, the development of the digital economy and the strengthening of the Single Market. These are all the things that the Plenkovic government has been indifferent to so far at best. We don't trust each other, and we don't believe it's going to work out. In addition to the government's recovery, there are two major European steps ahead, Schengen and the euro. For such major procedures, it might be good to have the support of one part of the opposition, at least that part that is attached to the idea of Croatia and the strengthening of the Union. Unfortunately, in the event of the Coronal crisis, you showed that you were not interested in anyone, you were not interested in the Constitution, you were not interested in the laws, you were not interested in the Assembly, let alone anyone else. The opposition at the time she supported and supported the proposals you had then spoke of that opposition as constructive. The opposition when she had something to object to, when she had something to ask, when she had something to say, even if God didn't give when she had something to write, to propose drafts of the law, to make amendments, then you reacted to that opposition in a way that you didn't even read it, but in turn you refused. The opposition really wants to be constructive, but this opposition will be constructive and we'll see the step in the moment you at least listen to what the opposition says. We even told you then, and I'm sure we'll talk, and this time don't support us, take it, copy it, show it as your own, we'll back you, but it wasn't like that. Therefore, the old and future Prime Minister Plenkovic, part of the old and future government support in another 4 years, will not be won. Why? Because of the mediocrity and failure that you wrapped in a silk wrapper. When the silk cover opens and we see nothing but failure and mediocrity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u992	Thank you. And the next club of representatives is that of HSS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u993	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister for the composition of the new government, colleagues and colleagues, was thus similar four years ago. Four years ago, I sent word from this place to ministers who were all new and to you, President, that you got the driver of a very expensive car this one in hand, but to manage such a car takes experience and time. Which means that every minister who's new in this business needs to sit down and organize himself fat and learn about his portfolio so that maybe in the second, at the end of 2, 3 and 4 years, he gives maximum results. This certainly does not apply to those who have completed the entire mandate, and there is the right for the Prime Minister to assess which minister has satisfied or not satisfied in the previous term. So, as much as we think something new is going on here, it's not happening too new because I've been here since 2003, it hasn't happened that the government program came 2 days before the MPs, came or day before even though it didn't come this way 45 minutes before or came the night before or early in the morning. To be fair, everyone goes that way. And what do we have here? Here we have a lot of content without any concrete action plan that is being solved either by strategies or by laws. I would like only one clarification from the mandater, he mentioned one word at the end of his presentation, it's called national cohesion, I will ask him to explain to me what he wanted to say, because if he had said the interest of the Republic then I would understand it or if he had used one other that is related to the coin programme, but it's not coins, but it's the name of European social policies, European policies, and that's social cohesion then I would understand very well because we don't still live in social cohesion, and we need it, we need to live it. So, I would go in line with those chapters in this programme of government that are in the focus of the Croatian party of pensioners' interests even though I'm performing here today in front of a new club, the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement, but I think that's theirs and their thoughts. So, first of all, it is said that we want to have additional tax redundancies of citizens and this is really happening through a reduction in VAT rates, but there is another way to see whether citizens have a large profit through a reduction in income tax or profit. Through a reduction in income tax, a small number of citizens have this gain, i.e. profit, and through a reduction in income tax or a possible increase in untaxable rates, only those who have a higher salary than an untaxable rate, although, which is now 4,000 kuna, so in order for someone to get something, they must have more than 6,300 kuna if it would increase from 4,000 to 5,000 kuna, and we have those who can only dream of such pay. Therefore, wage policy is not sufficiently tied to the policy of non-taxable amounts in Croatia, i.e. with tax policy or the two policies of minimum wages and tax, untaxable bases are not being followed by me as would be the function of protecting the poorest citizens. Secondly, it says here that social dialogue on the labour market will ensure that continued talks with all social partners, trade unions and employers will ensure the necessary level of social dialogue for the further development of the Croatian labour market and the protection of workers' rights and social justice in the spirit of the implementation of constitutional principles, while listening to the union's demands and the need for employers in view of the challenges facing them in everyday business. Look, the basic collective treaty of the Republic of Italy has been signed by the academic community of several hundred doctors of science who are considering where the economy of the Republic of Italy and where the social relations of the Republic of Italy are going. So, what do they do? They leave quite autonomy to social partners to regulate their relations. The state here is not an arbitration officer, the state does not listen to each other, but asks each other to take responsibility for the situation on the labour market, and that the state does such laws that allow each other to protect workers and workers' rights and on the other hand to have an orderly business of employers. So it is not an emphasis that is the most important factor in this country's social dialogue story. The state must cultivate these relations and ask the social partners to take responsibility for what they represent. Furthermore, we have a strengthening of social solidarity policy. Of course, this year we've been talking about both the pandemic of the crown crisis and the very unpleasant experiences in our homes for the elderly and the powerless and of course we can welcome that we want to improve the quality of older people, their housing in homes, but that something else is being done, that the more money is being invested in spending our days in the last days in their home i.e. that services come to the homes of pensioners and elderly people in their homes in their apartments, so where they live all their lives, we don't have continuous pressure on the construction of retirement homes, so we favor in some way extra-institutional care. In this context, I was speaking freely today that we have 50,000 people trapped in their apartments because multi-story residential buildings do not have elevators. It's not only that these tenants can't get down, nor can the services they need help with, nor the help in the house, nor the health care provider, nor the firemen, nor the services get to them, and that's not a small number. It is about 50,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia for whom we estimate to depend on other people's help in their own apartment. And I urge that the new Minister of Regional Development and European Funds allow it to withdraw or engage in the withdrawal of EU funds for these purposes in such a way that it is not related to the restoration of facades but rather that it is an individual project and that it decentralises it because I doubt that the ministry will deal with business, with projects worth 50,000 euros, but some regional institutions can take over and can do it without a problem. An effective system of social care and the fight against poverty, I must be and express my disappointment that we have a strategy to fight poverty and social exclusion in 2014-2020, which is indeed a dead letter on paper. There is no action plan and this will also remain a dead letter on paper unless the action plans in the direction are adopted after the strategy has been adopted and the measure in which a concrete period should be carried out. Yesterday I listened to attacks here that we have megaministism, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and social security combined and that between 55 and 60 billion kunas will spend so almost half of the budget, or a large part of the budget, I can tell you that my opinion is not so because it is about obligations to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So they're not the ones who are going to make some new investments, where there are going to be full investments, etc. but it is about obligations towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and perhaps the advantage is that the overall problem can be considered in one place, not that the left does not know what the right is doing. I would not be such a harsh critic from the position of the size or level of funds the ministry has at its disposal, I would rather see how much obligations the Ministry has towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and how much responsibility it is for all transfers to be transparent, efficient, fair, fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we at HSU to paraphrasise Frederick Douglas will be happy to cooperate with anyone who wants to do good, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but we will not think with anyone who thinks of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia bad or evil. Therefore, we will stand for just solutions in this segment. As far as the pension system itself is concerned, our speciality, i.e. to say one more sentence about the health system, where we are deeply affected by the availability of healthcare because do not tell me that someone who has 2,500 kuna and does not have to pay or does not have enough money to pay for voluntary health insurance or additional health insurance, that it is easy for him to allocate 2,000 kuna for a specialist review. Just don't tell me that because if you tell me it's simple then I don't believe we live in the same country and hang out with the same people, the same people. Therefore, the availability of healthcare should be resolved through an increase in the censorship for supplementary health insurance, but not only that, not only that, but also through specialist inspections in health homes. So, once we reorganise the health system, but we will from the position of protecting those who are poor, old, sick, argue that there is universal availability, that no one because of lack of funds can be denied for the availability of health care. Of course we want to have a repeat and implement the strategy against the poverty of older people and that as it is written this way, it will strive for the average pension to come to 50% of the average salary with the self-indexion procedure to never happen, with the two-time retirement adjustment procedure never happening. Why? Because you have open scissors all the time, you have open scissors all the time. One who has a higher pension with the same percentage of the increase is even higher than the other one who has a small pension and who has a small same percentage gets a minimal increase. This trunk, this difference, this gap in these scissors is increasing among these people in such a way of indexing, and that is the only way of indexing or synchronising pensions. You said you were going to use it in a different way to get rid of family pensions. In the last term, and we're going to rebuild that, in the last term, you had 900, bill 930, and bill 931, which solves that part for you. It costs a billion kuna, but for the fight against poverty, a billion kuna at year level is not and should never be a problem for the Republic of Croatia. It is not and must never be a problem for the Republic of Croatia because our constitutional principle is the protection of all citizens, social justice and the fight against the poverty of our citizens. At this point, we can't and won't support, so the government program, or the government. But until Christmas, we appreciate that we should already be able to assess the government's work and see some of the first serious intentions, the realization of serious intentions, and in the end, you're happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u994	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. Only information works, a very large number of MPs and MPs reported for individual debate, so if there is no replica at all it will take about 6 hours to complete the debate, only so much that you can time-oriented. We're going to, as I said at an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative Tomislav Tomislav Tomislavevic, please. The place is spoken individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u995	Thank you, Vice President, he's at work the other day, so you know how it is. It's five minutes, right? 5. It's the crown. So here, I have already announced in an individual debate to look a little bit more at the environmental protection portfolio, or now the sustainable development portfolio as it is called, given its experience and knowledge in this sector, and here I will start with the 31st side of the government's programme, with energy self-sufficiency and transition to pure energy. First of all, I think that the model of the market premium is unnecessary, which is listed here, we see and how it can be perverted in the case of just the wind power breach of Fallen, and what happened there, I don't think I have to repeat it, I think the entire Croatian public knows, I think that it should actually rely more on the fact that state subsidies are being used for peacemakers or that we are helping citizens to get solar cells, photovoltaic cells, install their homes, buildings, roofs, and in this way we are subsidising and focus on what we are going to subsidise, not to give investors such market premiums, especially bearing in mind that all the time electricity produced from renewable energy sources is becoming more and more expensive, and in this sense I think that this model is unnecessary. On the other hand, I see nothing about some other forms of energy, such as energy cooperatives, local co-ownership, meaning self-government over larger renewable energy projects, means something that is normal in Scandinavia and in some other European countries how to make as much use of renewable energy production as possible in the local community, I don't see it here. As for the water economy, to reduce the losses in the water supply system, I think it is commendable, but it is not exactly seen in which way and what it means to reduce losses, if it decreases by 50% or 40% by 5%, it is the same reduction, but it would not say that it is an adequate reduction in losses compared to what the EU average is, in which the Republic of Croatia cannot really boast with terribly large losses in water supply networks starting from Zagreb to other cities. I'm also not sure that it's necessary to look at all the local water lines, these are the water lines that the citizens themselves have built and run themselves, I don't think we should look at them all together, but I think some of them work well, properly test the quality of water, carry that water to the labs, and I don't think they should be forced to integrate all such water lines under the efficiencies of health and equate water quality. As for the protection of natural resources and the fight against climate change, I would say that you will bring a low-carbon strategy, I have listened to it at least for 3 years, for 3 years it is said that a low-carbon strategy will finally be adopted, and I guess it will finally because it seems to me in public debate now, however. Also, regarding the protection of natural resources, also in the project of former Ministers of Environmental Protection T. Coric, and now, yes, the candidate for the new minister, we have seen what is meant by an unedited and inadequate system of environmental impact assessment. I will remind you that the European Commission has launched a case against Croatia because of the habitat directive, not that it actually drew the Krš Padjene case because it said that the directives regarding modified wind power plants in the coastal belt are not being respected for the environmental network NATURA 2000. So Malta did not draw the Cross Fallen before we knew about the case when measures were breached and when everything went public. So from the perspective, we expect a new environmental impact assessment system because the system where the assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment ends so that 90% of the cases mean that there is no need for an environmental impact assessment and where an environmental impact assessment is required, in 90% of the cases ends so that all these projects are correct for the environment and that there is no need to change either the location or the technology, which I think is impossible if we really respect environmental standards. As far as waste management is concerned, I have already said that the waste management regulation, or amendments to that regulation, has been suspended by the Constitutional Court and we are now in one void because we do not have a new system for the collection of municipal waste, and there is now a new Law on the management of municipal waste, [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u996	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic, please. Comrade Tomašević, microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u997	When you talk about these environmental effects, I would refer to that earlier story of the use of Eu funds in that segment. The SDP database says that the recycling of waste is planned at 30,000 tonnes a year and none of it is realised at this time. Therefore, further water supplies were to be provided for a million people and by the end of the 7th year of the financial perspective, 950 inhabitants of Croatia wrote on the traffic light, so out of a million, 950 people are connected to these new systems. As for the wastewater management you were talking about, the plan was also for a million people, so far it's literally over 0, so 0, and that's the material part of that story about the unusable money from the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u998	Thank you. Reply by Honored Representative Tomasevic Thank you. [[Intruder Greekic: So it is in the base of the SDP, for the record.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u999	... would add that the government programme is projected here, a 55% rate of waste separation by 2025, and new data has just come out that says that Split separates currently 5% and Zagreb 17%, so I wonder how we will avoid EU foames and reach these 55% in 5 years? [[Specially enabled.]] Maybe a magic wand. And I would just like to say for the end the same thing, the commendation of both the Prime Minister and half of the ministers here, which still listen to us in some half-empty speaker, and I think it's still a sign of respect on your part, and in that sense, here I want to thank you for that. I would just say to the Mandatare that I am not a little sensitive because I asked for the protection of the Deputy Prime Minister when I was interrupted but simply demand respect just as I am willing to give you respect as the future prime minister, I do not see anything controversial, if you do not respect me, at least respect 20,000 citizens, voters who gave me a preferential vote and therefore, I think I am a parliamentary representative with the highest number of preferential votes, and I expect respect from that perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1000	Thank you. I expect you to respond to the replica, not to replicate it with the prime minister because you answer to your fellow Greek. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1001	Good afternoon, everyone. This morning we heard from Prime Minister Plenkovic that in the coming period, the most important security is that he will secure safe jobs but at the same time we heard from the prime minister that he can't do anything for the workers of Meggle, probably for the workers of CROSCA, tobacco factories in Kanfanar, SAIPEM workers, sugar worker in Virovitica, Kras workers, workers of Đura Đakovic, shipbuilding workers who are closed and who are before closing like Brodotrogir. He says Prime Minister Meggle is a private firm and there's nothing we can do about it. These are contradictory policies. On the one hand, we cannot defend the sanctity of the free market and the right to private ownership to shut down production, to abolish jobs, until the whole country becomes a technological surplus that private owners will have the right to send to the road and on the other, to advocate alleged security. Almost 1/5 employees in Croatia are working for a certain time, which means 6.9%, the average of Europe is 2.2%. We're at the very top of such a scale of these insecure contracts in work, we can't talk about security. It is now announced that a tax reform will be implemented immediately, most of which will have gross salaries of 30 000 and more thousand kuna, a capital tax cut that is among the lowest in Europe is announced. The consumption tax, the VAT which is the regressive tax, which most affects the poored majority, is yet to be announced after these richest ones who will benefit from these tax reforms are settled. Even the CNB warns of a large accumulation of savings, rich people don't invest in us but accumulate. So we need green re-industriousization, the location of industries that have high added value, protection, no country rich, the Western European country has developed without protectionism and interventionism. In a country where the indicators of poverty and social exclusion are alarming, it is clear that in the first place of the Government programme there is no social security, but what social security is if we only indicate some indicators of poverty I will tell you that about 300,000 people in Croatia have no heat, 300,000 children living in poverty, in Croatia 51% cannot afford a week's vacation outside the house, so our vice president of the Parliament is a respected knight Željko Reiner under the rotirkom going on a skiing trip so that he can't wait at the border, in Croatia 10% of people can't afford to eat a meal that contains meat, fish or some vegetarian equivalent, but HDZ representatives, here like Vinko Zulim in the municipality of Segett spend 170 thousand kuna years on the team, the minister of labor we heard whether Marko Pavić had spent 7,000 kuna on expensive perfumes, it's probably social security. We cannot stand for the status quo even though a good part of the opposition will stand for it in a country where over 50% of the pensioners live in poverty where the average pension is less than 39%, while there was as much as 70% of it 40 years ago. We don't have the right to retain the status quo, and as it will change, we don't know, I remember the picture of Prime Minister Plenkovic when he was recently on the Scenic Eclipse ship, meaning the ship that was the last ship that came out of the Oilic after the Oilic was closed and said on that occasion that he was proud of such a high-sofed ship that came out of one home shipyard and that he would like us to produce such ships. I'd warn the Prime Minister that we can't produce ships without a shipyard. So if we have in the program, what I welcome, so the location of those industries that can produce high added value and then investment in that industry, then we can't say that we're doing well if we close one of our last export industries, such as shipbuilding that has high added value. What this government does and those 100,000 jobs that promise are probably jobs in services with low added value, it will turn us all into so-called. Servant economics story and after that we will be left truly in a complete social exclusion in which no one will have any more opportunities. So, except for what We need to call her end of status quo. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1002	Your debate has sparked several replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1003	Thank you. Dear MP Peovic, you are constantly talking about the country's needed industrialisation, the question is what it is to achieve. It's the only possible solution to the judiciary, so we have disputes that last up to 10 years and over, who will invest in such a country, how to run an industry, we have high taxes that can only be achieved if we cut somewhere, we have to cut the state apparatus and the third thing when you talk about tax relief they can be found for the widest layer of our citizens by introducing a unique child's fee. About 800,000 of our employees don't have the right to tax benefits because they don't just go into it and that's only possible with what MOST proposes, which is the introduction of a single children's fee for 800,000 of our employees' parents. These are solutions, it's easy to talk about the need to run industry, about the poorest but no solutions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1004	Representative Peovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1005	It should, however, mean some high-tax myths in question, so when I talk about capital tax, we have one of the lowest capital taxes in Europe. And it is not true that we go to industry because we have a high capital tax was not a problem or an obstacle to those who privatised the telecoms, the trade sector, Maggle specifically leaves Croatia because it is likely to produce cheaper in countries that are not within the EU because they are lower environmental standards. We need to actually protect our work and our workers, and this story and mantra about tax reduction, attracting entrepreneurs only partially stands, or we need to question it, the very problematic mythology that we see, so the CNB warns we have a high accumulation of capital So you're not investing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1006	The next is the respected representative, Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1007	A respected representative of Peovic with whom I share a lot of what she has mentioned here, but I must say that not only are workers at risk but also a large part of entrepreneurs who are pushed into entrepreneurship precisely because of the inability of employment and corruption that for years the government in this society has had to run small businesses and I do not know that the future prime minister of the current government is aware of what will happen to us in the 10th and 11th month when 10 thousand small businesses, the ten thousand small businesses, the tenants, the caterers, who are at risk with this crown crisis which has essentially shown problems in our society for a long time, which will be in bankruptcy, I do not know what it will come out of it, but they are the same workers as all the other, most of them from the hairdressers, from small crafts, all of them will be in trouble. And if we're just relying on money from the EU to solve these problems for us, I'm afraid that's ours. Fate isn't bright. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1008	Representative Peovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1009	Well, yes, I think I can partly agree with you what's problematic is bringing our economy down to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and costing an economy in which we can't produce high added value, only 15% of our entrepreneurs exports. They are also in a difficult situation, under heavy burdens but they cannot develop unless the state invests in some large ones, so industry, if the state doesn't run and protect the big industry, big business entities that are then small and medium-sized can relate, like in Germany so-called. mittelstand. So we mostly have a small and medium-sized enterprise that doesn't have the strength to carry on all the burdens. In that sense, I can agree with you, but we must change the policy towards economic development that our Government constantly and persistently brings down to service activity and tourism. We've seen how and we'll see, unfortunately, even worse in the fall when all the social indicators...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1010	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were absolutely right when you said that what was announced with tax reform in income tax would actually increase only Croatia's biggest salaries again. This is the continuation of only one persistent government policy where the previous change has increased just wages above 18,000 kuna. That's why we suggested going towards the model to increase personal deduction because it's the only way to raise wages more significant, somewhere between 5% and 6% today between 4, 7, 8,000 kunas where in fact the largest number of people in Croatia is because these salaries above 18,000 kuna are somewhere around 20,000. I don't know why the government's doing it, if it's already working to help people, then it should go this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1012	Representative Peovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1013	Well, yeah, I'd just like to add signs of 17,500 kuna on the first one of Maric's reforms reduced those deductions and that's 0.3% of the people in Croatia got some kind of perks. And I think our colleague Bencic spoke yesterday about this need to make a tax reform that would respect several paying classes that would, indeed, ensure that those who have fewer salaries also have some benefits, those who have higher salaries, this is a progressive taxation that has caused a great storm in Croatian society on our part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1014	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silavan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1015	Dear colleagues. I recognize a working rights fighter in you, and that's fine. I negotiated over 130 collective agreements in companies where it was negotiated at 10 June an hour because it's important, but you talk like everyone who comes to this House, you talk about the consequences, and I think we can only talk about the consequences when we get to know the causes. And just today, based on your exposure, I'm going to mention one reason, or I'm going to ask you one conflicting question. Why do we have work that doesn't pay pension contributions? Why do we have student work? It's a job you don't pay pension contributions to. How many pensions will ours have that first time, our youngsters who first got a job at 35? Is that why we're stopping that result later or isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1016	Representative Peovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1017	Yeah, I agree that's really one of the very bad solutions, I mean if it can be called solutions that we've been saying for years that student work has to be verified in this way that these young people who work because today we have a huge amount of agency and student work that has replaced some pre-organized work that's been working on indefinitely. Here we have 90% of the contracts a year that are signed at a certain time, we have practically abolished the permanent job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1018	Replica next will be respected MPs Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peović, I am glad you mentioned the company “Crosco” in this sequence you have instructed. Since April 1st, citizens from Moslavina and Western Slavonia have been warning that almost 400 with the 1st of April ended on hold and that they do not know what fate awaits them by the end of this year. Moreover, we already have an indication that three waves of failure have started with 1.7, 1.8, and 1.10. People were simply losing their jobs, leaving with unarranged severances, leaving without any rights, and all with the aim of shutting down a successful Croatian company to move out of the world market because unfortunately they lost large wells and ran out of big jobs. But Minister Coric, on public television, said it was a lie and that is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1020	Thank you. Representative Peovic's reply. Nothing. Thank you. We are going to the next individual debate of the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1021	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable prime minister, respected candidates for ministers and ministers of the new Croatian government, but also respected colleagues of elected MPs and MPs. When you talk in the election campaign about the achievements and positive things of the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the mandate for which we have sought new trust, then it comes down to you that it's all a pre-election story, that it's a wish list, that it's pamphlets, that it's this, that it's nothing done. But here are the respected Croatian citizens re-elected HDZ with their partners on July 5th, not because one of you likes it or doesn't like it, but because it is the will of the Croatian people. And respecting the will of the Croatian people should be the Holy Scriptures in this House. Sometimes here at the pay phone, they started arguing with the High Honored House. I here today as a younger representative, and five times I swore in this High House I could only hear destruction, pessimism, bad forecasts, bad intentions. I respect your every mandate, and I believe that the voters in you have found quality, your program that has attracted them to you, but trust those who trust us. There is a certain responsibility for Croatia in this confidence. I will remember the late President Tudjman, his son sitting here, who led the train of peace and freedom in Vukovar, and these messages were the unity, tolerance, understanding and better future of Croatia. I firmly believe in this government, I believe in Mr Plenkovic, and I am sure that he was guided by a policy of pure cheek and clean hands and none of us, whether left or right, must be ashamed of him and for this government neither in Croatia nor in the EU. Nobody mentions Agrokor anymore, shipyards, migrant crisis, education, health crisis never seen in the world and Europe, look at us here, I can't tell how much mask I'm getting down, have you ever seen and expected in the Parliament? So everything that's good, everything that's done is positive, you don't care about anyone anymore. We all stand for private property, for entrepreneurship, and when you start taking care of things in that vault, you all rebel. I hope you will be a constructive opposition, because, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, destruction spreads pessimism, Croatian people and the Croatian state at this time, more than ever needed optimism and a better future. I believe in her, as a young representative. I believe in the honesty, honesty and good intentions of this government. You don't have to do it for us, it's your right and we respect it. But your quality, your contribution to your work will give you the better quality of our government that I belong to. We won't insult anyone, not left or right, I said yesterday. If we want a safe flight, if our path to Europe, if our path to freedom is a minority of all members of the Croatian people, it was the Serbs, they were the Bosniaks, they were the Hungarians, they were the Italians, and I'm sorry if I skipped someone. It's a quest for a better future for our children and our people. Believe me, everything that's said and done here is said for the good of our country. If we who have been chosen in one way or another with the trust of left or right, we do not have that safe hull for a better future of Croats and Croatia should have both the right wing and the left wing and national minorities and every Croatian citizen of any nationality is our citizen and we should all stand for it here. We've got jobs to save, help the economy, help the young, help the births, help the school, we've got a crisis waiting for us that we don't really know what's waiting for us, we all together, ladies and gentlemen, fight first of all for jobs. For optimism, for the better future of our country, that those who fought, there is Tomo Bear who led my list, who was three times wounded, and some of them unfortunately don't sit here anymore. They're dead, their children are watching and listening. They don't understand what we're talking about. You have your constituents, we have our constituents. If you'd been so good, you'd be so good, we'd be so bad, you'd be trusted. Math is clean, people need positive, they need optimism, they need safe and healthy Croatia. Without it, we're not going anywhere. You're inviting us to build, to talk, to this, to that, and you got a chance in the first round you said, nothing's wrong, it's a wish list, and I didn't hear anything, no suggestion, except that we're not good. But thank God and the Croatian people for their trust, for what we have earned and have earned, and I believe that some of you in walking, in this time before us, will recognize our country's interest and that together, dear people, we will lead this country to success together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1022	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. We'll stay till after midnight. The first is MP Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1023	Well, I'd say that in this presentation, I'd say so many contradictions that some course of logic could probably be the only one that could solve it. When you speak, we have our constituents, and you have yours, and you call for unity, you should know that you are alone in conflict with your own logic apparatus. We are, therefore, a constructive opposition because we are warning of the problems in this government's program. To call on the number of people or citizens who went to the elections and voted for you, it is not too much too much, opportunised in your situation, when, therefore, a lot of people have absorbed from these elections, and HDZ has achieved the second worst result in history, which is the same message from the voters, if you want to extract some message from these choices. Having a lot of mandates doesn't reflect the actual number of votes you've received, or the dramatic situation. if we're just listening to a message from the citizens. [[Thank you. Answer.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1024	Dear Representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1025	Dear MPs, I did not speak in this sense ours and yours, but your support of your program, our support for our program. And believe me, you're not here as the new mother of wisdom that you know everything about everything without the rest of you knowing anything about anything. You have your ideologies that are left, you're fighting for workers' rights, and we're fighting for workers' rights, and you can't tell us or me that I want anything less for workers than you do. You'll have opportunities to say something constructive, now you've called yourself constructive, but you're actually destructive. And your logic, your mockery speaks of you being a debutante. If you're calling the number of voters to get more out, I'm sure you wouldn't be sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1026	The next replica of the respected representative of Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1027	Well, here's my dear friends, the esteemed MPs and counsellors. I am fully prepared to commend my colleagues from HDZ on their mandate, Mr Plenkovic, on the programme, but such panegirics from coalition partners, Mr Salapic, who, in fact, pointed out here that in the 3rd or 4th term, I did not expect. It is, even to me a little bit above that measure of this, expectations for why Mr. Salapic should not be so praised, they understood well, Mr. future Prime Minister Plenkovic was well aware of what you wanted to say, you should have gotten into it with less of these panegirics, we from the opposition would not exist if you had done your job well. Then you wouldn't even have an opposition here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1028	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1029	Dear Mr. Sacic, you've become an opposition after the election. So you wanted to be the government in the election campaign. But the voters and citizens of Croatia did not trust you and you are general, you come from the defence population and I have said in my debate that many of us here are obliged to those who have given their lives for free and independent Croatia. I don't know if anyone needs anyone else in this country, an EU member, who chaired the EU council, ever two columns in Vukovar again. I think Vukovar is the city of all Croats, all of us and we all have the right to respect the sacrifice of the Croatian people and all Croatian defenders. I beg of you, I have not boasted of my mandates, but I have called you to community, and I will repeat my fellowship 100 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1030	Please don't throw it out of the bench. You were the one who said it wasn't right to throw it out of the bench. Therefore, please stick to the order. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1031	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Salapic, you said in your statement that the Croatian people had chosen most. Can you answer me who chose the opposition and the minority? What people? You're saying that trust was given to you, and what did we get, mistrust? Who do we represent here, the Croatian people or some other people? You're really exaggerating in this statement how you HDZ are the only one in this country. So this is a democratic state, this is a parliament, and everyone here has the right to speak, and as soon as we say something, you accuse us of being destructive because you don't accept essentially any of our proposals that came from policies that gave us the trust of the Croatian people to follow and defend the interests of our citizens who gave us that trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1032	Thank you. Dear Representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1033	Your Honor, I know you very well, and I appreciate you and I know that you are a valuable man in your city, I sat here with you, not my intention in the debate was not to share, nor to disrespect your approach there. You know me well, too. I was talking about the need for us to be together in the Republic of Croatia at times when we need to be together, I was talking about the health crisis, about the economic crisis, about the problems we've been dealing with together. I didn't insult you, I'll always listen to you and comment on what you say. I repeat that I have heard in many debates, and I did not mean you, a certain destruction, certain attacks without arguments and let me still assess what level of my political speech I consider appropriate to this high home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1034	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1035	A fellow Salopic, after his last meeting of the assembly was dissolved on one portal, left the title text not to hold my word, can't quote exactly, but the following content, he says, “good news, the worst meeting of the assembly has been dissolved so far, bad, the next one will be even worse. ” So, in the last session of the opposition, we haven't experienced a constructive proposal, a lot of pulsism, demagogy, an act of play, the presentation of MPs from the assembly, and apparently this assembly of opposition plans in that direction. Three weeks ago, we had elections, voters said they trusted HDZ, they trusted Prime Minister Plenkovic, so I guess they know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1036	Dear Representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1037	Thank you very much. My colleague, you remember the last call that we had several MPs of the opposition who were repeatedly kicked out of the assembly, repeatedly aggressively acting towards government members, insulting government representatives at law debates, and now see if any of them are sitting here in the assembly? No, I don't. So it's all a lot of aggression, all the great negatives that brought people out of this house. I was talking about it, I was talking about the right and the left and the right to say what they wanted, I didn't want to offend anyone, I didn't make fun of anyone, I was just talking about what should be my way as a representative of the right path of the Republic, someone likes it, and someone doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1038	The next replicas of the respected representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're referring to the majority you got, I'd like to remind you of scientific research, so it wasn't some political party or journalists, it was the 2016 Faculty of Geography and Demography. where it has been established that in the Republic of Croatia there is a total of more than 400,000 so-called. fictitious voters. So any normal government would go to make a new census and regulate the Anti-Constitutional Election Law. In such circumstances we talk about some majority, the will of the people when less than 54% of Croatian citizens even went to elections I think mocking the Croatian nation. Therefore, the census is not even governed by the Anti-Constitutional Election Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1040	Dear Representative Salopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1041	Dear MPs, if you had received more mandates and if the Croatian government had been dependent on you, all your laws would have been excellent, nothing should be changed, everything would have been great.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1042	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1043	Dear Representative Salapic, you call the opposition destructive and that it spreads pessimism, but I will unfortunately have to disappoint you. The pessimism in society is widespread corruption and nepotism that have become very well ensnared in some organizations, and I don't call any party, not one person, I don't want to go down to that level, but there are certain people who are really experiencing this country as if it's a spoil of war. These choices were the choices that had the slightest turnout so far, and that's something none of us can boast of. So I appreciate that, and I congratulate you once again on winning, but understand someone has chosen and chosen the opposition and that sometimes we have different opinions we have to respect, but accusing the opposition to spread pessimism is really embarrassing. The pessimism, I repeat, spreads the same virus that destroys Croatian society, which is corruption and nepotism, and we know where it has it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1044	Thank you. Dear Representative Salopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1045	Your Honor, I did not disappoint you, nor did I disappoint myself, you were probably disappointed by your voters for not giving you enough confidence to decide about the new Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1046	The next replica of respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1047	Dear Mr. Salapic, a valid home, when it comes to the recognition of election results should be respected. Therefore, the election result of the votes received should be respected, which means that there are Croatian citizens who have supported one party, another party, the third party that is now forming 13 party clubs and this is the result of this House. Of course, the parliamentary majority takes responsibility as well as the moment when parliament is not hanged at that moment, then the leadership of the parliament headed by the president and vice presidents is elected by an absolute majority in terms of the general consensus as it did here. Calls for community or cohesion is a little funny when you get the government program so you get what you say on the table today. If I did, they'd skin me alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1048	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1049	I'm sorry, dear colleague, for bothering you that I've invited anyone to join us. There are certain topics in Croatia, certain important things that we need to solve for which a national consensus will be needed, I was talking about. I was talking about that it doesn't matter which party you are if our common national interest is saving the economy, jobs, encouraging young people to school, that's what I'm talking about. I didn't insult you or anything. And be honest if you'd won those elections, you'd have spoken completely differently than you're saying now, and that's just the way it is. It was a fair game where someone wins, someone loses, and someone takes responsibility for running the country, that's why it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1050	Thank you. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1051	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Salapic has been injured by an article. 238. where a nonstop opposition calls for the will of the majority that we have not received trust, which is a man who has received 225 votes straight. Because the government where you were a colleague of Salapic spit in the face of 400,000 people who collected signatures to enter and with preferential votes and you rejected the law, that's the problem. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1052	My colleague Bulj, you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. We're going to the next individual debate, which is respected representatives of Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1053	Your Honor. The government programme, which was delivered to us for a full 40 minutes before the start of the debate, was probably delivered so late that we did not realize in time that it was full of contradictions and that it did not give what was expected, which is a new vision of the country's development and a change in the development of the Paradise of our economy which is now resting on rent, an economy based on production and knowledge. The programme envisions the creation of a green resistant economy and the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels at the declaration level, and, on the other hand, predicts that we will build LNG, so this is the first contradiction. On the other hand, it provides for the creation of energy independence, but the energy from renewable energy sources will continue to be in the hands of private investors that will be encouraged by the market incentives model. If our goal is to have a greater share of renewable energy than fossil fuels over the next 10 years, then this policy of yours where you put it into the hands of exclusively private investments makes us wonder whose hands the production of energy in Croatia will be in 10 years. What we want to get into the government's programme is to do the opposite, to force HEP to invest its two billion kunas annually in renewable energy sources that will remain in the hands of Croatian citizens. In addition, we pointed out during the campaign that it is necessary that we now use significant means to create a technological and industrial complex that will cover our technology companies, which will cover the metallurgical cluster and which will allow us to produce components for renewable energy sources in Croatia, and in order to ensure that the funds we will have from EU funds do not go to the import of these components but remain in Croatia. Furthermore, you said that your goal is to create food self-sufficiency, and you did not foresee an effective market protection model for local producers. Therefore, we are asking for the government's explicit programme to be promoted as a model of public procurement exclusively green public procurement in the area of food and drink supply so that the entire public sector can obtain food from local communities and favour organic production and natural cultivation. In this way we will really open the market to our local producers and small OPGs. And not only that, if we accepted for example the fact that it was a good idea to provide our children in Croatia with a free meal at school in this case if we had a green public procurement it would no longer be a cost, it would be an investment in local OPGs, it would be an investment in the development of agricultural production. Also, my colleague Peovic said when you reacted to the Maggle case today when you said it was a market issue and that it was a free market issue. How do you think in a country of 4 million people ensure food self-sufficiency if you do not intend to manage the development of the food industry and the agricultural and food complex. Ask your colleague Merkel if she's doing it with the German industry and tells you that's the market, don't expect any help from the German state, certainly not. We also want to say that you have announced that you will increase the minimum wage by the end of the term of office to 4250 kuna. So 40,000 people living off minimum wage have this light at the end of the tunnel that in 2024 will receive 4250 kuna. What we were looking for in our electoral programme and in and now we are looking for to enter government programmes, to make minimum wage binding and define as 60% of the media pay, which would already rise to this level above 4300 kn and thus actually enable it to grow together with the media pay each year. But we have to ask ourselves what we can expect from all of you who have been sitting here for years and who have been staring at the fact that every day in the constituency cafeteria and in the constituency restaurant food, coffee and juice are being cooked, carried by people who are paid 3500 kuna, to you who have paid more than 16,000. I've been here two days and I'm already ashamed. And finally, the dotted changes in the tax system that you're doing will have a greater cost than it will benefit this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1054	Time, thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1055	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sandra, you have talked about green public procurement, a green budget for which you would like to be particularly highlighted in the government programme, but you know for yourself that this is an integral part, the basic part of the green plan that this government has adopted and has an obligation to implement, so that it is fully understood that we will implement it and that what is really important is to add to that, to stimulate the short supply chains of food and to get our domestic food from the local OPG into the kitchen right now, because in this way we demonstrate and show that we really support the domestic ones. When you mentioned free meals at school, I am particularly proud that as a Croatian Europarliamentary, I have managed to remove historical criteria and to fight for Croatia to receive subsidies for healthy fruit, milk and vegetables from the EU, which has been adopted and this programme is ongoing, so that it should continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1056	Time. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1057	So I'll tell you why we just pointed out this, because it's not visible in the government's programme that it will be introduced as a mandatory model of public procurement in all public bodies that are bonds of public procurement. Second thing, why don't I believe that? Because it's already been tried. In the last 4 years, just during the term of office of this Government, green procurement has been attempted, required to be introduced, at least piloted somewhere, some rules have been prepared but never allowed to make green public procurement really mandatory or at least secondary to public authorities for the reason that import lobby was always protected and large trade chains whose interests were always ahead of the interest of farmers. And that's what we don't trust you to do now. But we are asking that it happen and we hope that there will be a consensus that this is one of the basic objectives and one of the basic instruments of protecting the domestic market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1058	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1059	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. Breeding and education fall into basic social tasks as well as health, such as environmental protection, as social care, such as economic prosperity. It's not just about acquiring qualifications, professional qualifications. It's also about preserving our individual, collective and collective identity. It is our duty to ensure that children and young people prepare to contribute to the achievement of a fairer, more tolerated, more solid and sustainable society. That is why education as a whole and educational reform is our priority. Is it yours, too? What is the point of educational reform? Did she even start? When will it end? It's not like you know the answers because you weren't interested in them. But here we are going to tell you, the reform is that when we open all the doors and all the windows, not only in schools but also in content, it's only half, the other half, it's actually the first people, students and teachers. It says in the program that you'll analyze, valorize. I suggest you start the analysis with a simple question. How many of our math classes are qualified mathematicians doing? Physicians' physics? All the training of IT qualified informers? We know in not too many because they're not here. They're gone because our most gifted students haven't fantasized about becoming teachers in a long time. They're not there because what attracted young people to the teaching profession wasn't just material status, it was an ethos and social reputation. In recent years and decades, we have taken away the reputation and dignity of the call as a society because you have demoted the teaching profession, we have discouraged teachers and the school directorship is politicized. That's why they're gone. Then what's reform? What's he in? How do we know we started it and let alone spend it? We'll know the day they come to school every day and go to school happy people. On that road, we've lost a lot of weight over the past four years. Then how can we trust you? University? The university in the idea of its concept, the university is an avant-garde. The university is progress. The university is a leader. The university is freedom. The university is a pride. Now, when we put this in that same sentence instead of the general university, we put this on our oldest, biggest University of Zagreb, and when we read that sentence again, we will hear how bitter it sounds. The university is to ask questions. Asking for answers and then asking questions again. Our university, our pie, and it's even less appropriate. That's not yesterday. It didn't come overnight, it grew in your previous term. And with your inaction, with your tolerance, with your insolent encouragement. You, by your education, by all your achievements, by your career, you know perfectly exactly what every move means, every decision, every direction the university takes, and finally every judicial process that this university leads. You perfectly understand exactly how long it is and what is today at our University of Zagreb a spiritual and academic horizon. Yet, the mechanisms of supervision, and the aids, are lagging behind. But the honorary doctorates were assigned. That's why we're not convinced of your understanding of education, which is why we can't believe your efforts in school and science. We will continue to advocate, we are ready in every way to help, and we will fight until the final fulfillment of our goal. And that's the one that goes to school. Bring back joy and pride to the university. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1060	Thank you. Your debate has caused several replicas. Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1061	Thank you and thank you to my colleague who opened the problem of the university, I didn't have enough time, but I said at one point that the reform of the Zagreb University is the mother of all reforms. I'm glad there's a minister, I'm glad to have the prime minister. Last year in a solemn atmosphere in HNK 80 and some young doctor of science was promoted to calling the doctor of science. Of these, of the number 73 young men who had doctored were from the Faculty of Philosophy. Three were from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. The government needs to know the data, and the minister has to brief his prime minister in the right way because I do not believe that someone who is prime minister of the Croatian government and who has seen how the world works can accept that at a time of crisis at a time when all Croatia is on its knees Unintendedly allow to spend 73 [[Intruder: Time.]] Doctor of Science at the Faculty of Philosophy, and at Electrical Engineering 3. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1062	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1063	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Bakic, for dedicating his part of the presentation to the university, and you have accused the government of not doing so much in this way. The problems of the Zagreb University itself. I must say, we have to look at the last three years of other universities. It is not just the Zagreb center of everything, there are other universities, we should commend here the University of Split, which is here, thank God, and for my joy skips the Zagreb University and by the number of works and by all the coefficients and by all the indications of the development itself. As far as the government itself is concerned, she was in charge of one and the budget, as well as the general status of the university. We can't even enter the autonomy of managing the university itself, but we have to point out, the government should have provided infrastructure for university students, invested a billion and 300 million, no universities that didn't get either a new campus or a new home, not to mention a double increase in scholarships, arranged student work, etc. It's a program and it's a government job, and this is the autonomy of the university, which you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1064	Time. Next replica, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1065	Dear colleague Bakic, you spoke of some elements of control over the university. You may be surprised, you may not have dealt with university policy at the time, but if you want to discuss the elements of supervision, then you might be able to move from opposition to ruling because it was just one of the key problems of the then Fuchs law 10 years ago that it refused, I will repeat once again, with 97% of the colleges that were manifested, that the autonomy of the university was a problem, so I'm interested in this trail, which you think, what elements of the control policy over the university are needed, and in that sense I will remind you that there should be no surveillance there because we like or do not like the individual university authority. University autonomy is important because just in times of crisis, the university is one that can only react to prevent negative political processes. Some university authorities are coming And they pass, but the autonomy of the university should remain here forever. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1066	Replica response, distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1067	Well, just two short sentences. One is autonomy, and at the same time autonomy cannot be independent in the same sentence without responsibility. And as far as surveillance is concerned, I misrepresented myself, and here I was referring exactly to administrative surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1068	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1069	Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I also congratulate everyone on the mandates, and I hope this will be one of the more decent Parliaments. However, I will say right at the beginning that this government should not be trusted by women at least and first not by women. If we look at the fact that we all found out when we got the new government programme, I looked at the old program to at least, to have a foothold, and in the old program it was like this: the right to equality in the foundations of European policies is necessary for the further development of society and must be applied equally in all aspects of life. The government will promote gender equality in its policies and focus in particular on reducing labour market inequalities in political and public life. What we got, we managed to read during this debate this new programme of gender equality remained only in one part of better protection for women and children, but one single sentence stands like this, gender equality is mentioned only in one under demographic revitalization and a better position of family, so by strengthening the family, 2.4, but not by strengthening the position of women in society. So, women have fallen out of sex or gender equality or equality in men and women, located in the most vulnerable groups in society, forgetting that women are not even a minority in this society, on the other hand, it is forgotten that what we call what you put into the most vulnerable groups has proved at the time of the pandemic that women were on the first lines of defense and as doctors and nurses, that they were the first ones exposed to the store as cashiers and salesmen. It is also forgotten that women and additionally paid, unpaid work also had extra unpaid work at home working with a woman in this new species, working with children in this new species, he line whether education is for young people. So, how is it possible for a government that points out that women in all areas of life, including politics, and we see the fact and I am very interested in what sanctions this government is going to take towards all those, and first of all towards HDZ who did not keep mandatory quotas on the lists, I am interested in the coffee will be those sanctions, whether or not those sanctions will be directed at something that the Government should have done according to the previous programme. In fact, the government, we all remember very well, was not so long ago when it was necessary to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women, the abovementioned solutions had to be implemented. Now the 24-hour phone for women who live still in violence is recycled again. Well, in two years one phone should have been slow. It is disputed that again we do not have a word of equality between men and women in fear we probably know what the internal conflicts in HDZ itself were. We see that today, of all topics, someone is opening up a topic to deal with here, colleague Selak is talking about university autonomy, women are talking about the autonomy of deciding about their own not body, but about their own life. Here today we have seen the attempt of some men to re-manage our lives. So, we haven't seen it since I'd say fear not of the post-coortion but fear of the post-Stambul convention, nothing that's already been implemented, and that's whether it's fear of some unknown men in long dresses that go into women's bathrooms, and we haven't seen them, I'd like to sanction all those who printed jumbo posters on which there was a girl's character, we were told that our kids at school would have to decide whether they were male or female. According to the Law on the right to access information, I addressed the Ministry of Education And I got the answer that no such complaints were made by my parents. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1070	Next debate individual, distinguished representative of Willim Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1071	Dear MPs, respected MPs, former ministers, future ministers, formerly, in such short time as we had to look at your government programme, that fortunately we could compare with the 2016 government programme and the 2016 and '20 electoral programme what they might notice and what you all noticed together in the current situation of the Kovid 19 pandemic, I will talk about the culture of course and the experience of the recent quarantine again and we have again very concretely realized that the works of cultural employees such as literature, film, music, but also on the line of transmission of theatre performances may have been key tools of maintaining mental health and self-insulation for a large number of citizens and citizens. And this is about the cultural sector, a sector that has been neglected for years and decades, left in the corner, far from the main interests of leading policies. We invite you to aim culture together towards the needs set before us by the 21st century society, which is diversity, inclusiveness, availability of culture in each part of the country and for each of our citizens independently of its social status. The need for democratisation, you keep forcing us to keep the conditions in which culture loves this bear that, that we constantly experience it all together as a space of valley. Some sort of relaxation, I guess, on my own time, not as an important extremely valuable social resource. The programme you are proposing puts a proactive emphasis on empowering cultural market aspects, and in other aspects this programme shows no vision of development, but a complete cultural sector. We consider it necessary to change that paradigm because culture is what creates a new fabric of society, a social connection, a social bond, it's a space for dialogue, a space of understanding, and you took away its and you persistently deny it the role of a social actor. We stand for a culture that is inclusive, for a culture that is available, we must strive for a society where our differences will become our wealth and our advantages, not permanent misunderstanding points, or even conflict. We are in favour of a culture that is necessary for the face of climate change, a culture that contributes to the development of sustainable tourism, a culture that is equally integrated in the development of the economy through, say, graphic design, product design, fashion industry, cultural tourism, video games industry and not to list any further. Strongly persuasion of culture and art with education is essential for promoting creativity in people, and creativity is necessary for the development of skills, for the acquisition of new knowledge, and that is why we advocate that culture and art are more integrated into the education system at all levels, from kindergartens and schools to colleges, as well as through lifelong learning in order to encourage creative capacities of citizens and in parallel grow into responsible active citizens who guarantee further development of democratic society. The culture sector is due to the pandemic Coronavirus lies ahead of a deep structural crisis [[Intruder: Time]] and the challenge of re-thinking ways of production and mediation. [[Intruder: Time]] In this sense, of course, that Chuck needs this, here I am finishing, independent cultural actors with their work have contributed significantly to the visibility of Croatian culture in the world. There. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1072	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1073	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected candidates and candidates for members and members of the government, this is the second time I have participated in the debate with this topic and I must tell you that I am doing so with no feeling of skepticism and cynicism, and by nature I am neither cynic nor pessimist. This government will be a government of continuity, we have heard this many times today, and that is why it is extremely difficult for me to determine one or two topics that I could use to talk meaningfully about in these miserable five minutes how long individual debates take at the time of the coronary crisis. In the last year, I mean the period before the coronary crisis started, fell on the media freedom index scales, perceptions of corruption, prosperity, rule of law, innovation, global peace index, IT competitiveness, economic freedoms, democracy and the index of happiness. I really don't want the next government to be the government of this continuity. It's impossible to single out one thing I'd talk about because they're all just as bad. You're not open to criticism, Mr. Plenkovic. For the past 4 years. You haven't shown a grain of openness to suggestions from the opposition, even if it's all over your head, and you've got your head all the way down the road. The testimony of this is the society of political dead, ministers and ministers from your previous government who were forced to leave because of their crime. Will your next government be the government of continuity? Can you give me a single example of Mr Plenkovic in the last 4 years? When did you accept criticism from the opposition? One. So don't say you're ready for the dialogue because it's the last 4 years. You weren't. Even in the beginning of the crisis when you called on opposition clubs in the government to agree on how we will deal with the pandemic, you did not want to consider the constitutional mechanisms that exist precisely for these situations and prescribe the way decisions are made. Instead, the decision was made by the Civil Protection Staff under a very obvious political direction. This is why today, citizens of Plenkovic have more confidence in the harospidal mutilation of the bird's liver than in that headquarters. Mr. Plenkovic, there were less than half of the voters in the election, you and your elected 16% of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so don't imagine if it matters to you at all that you have incredible and stable legitimacy. In fact, maybe I'd better say this, don't show any continuity in your imagination. The facade of a moderate conservative european with whom you were elected several years ago almost completely collapsed, and this is not the fault of the Zagreb earthquake. You need to fix it. Until then, if you ask me why I won't vote for you and your government, the answer is for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1074	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As I was saying this morning, the biggest problem of this proposal, this program that we are discussing, is not what he's offering because I believe none of us are against investing billions of kunas in health care or billions of kunas in education. However, I believe that almost everyone here would sign it. The problem with this programme is that it does not answer the question of how it will be achieved. There's no answer to that. I didn't ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for no reason this morning if he thought about how we'd absorb those 22 billion euros. The problem, for example, is that young people sitting in our SAF without experience working for 5-6000 kunas are completely inadequately paid for the work they do and as soon as they gain experience and as soon as they gain knowledge, they are withdrawn to the private sector. This program does not answer the question of how we will prevent it. And that's exactly what the staff drains working on European funds have so far been holding back the Republic of Croatia from attracting these funds. And instead of answering clearly how we're going to ensure for these people adequate pay, how we're going to provide them with adequate education, we're just saying that's not a problem, and it's just one of the problems of this program. Another key is that this programme not only provides answers to key issues of the Republic of Croatia, not only does it not give hope that it will be resolved, that the problems will be solved in this mandate, but also creates a series of new ones. I'm going to apostrophe one, and that's the problem of inequality. The inequality of citizens, inequality of workers, inequality in the Republic of Croatia has been on the rise for years at all. The proposals in this programme, one of the few, concrete ones concerning the issue of income tax, will only increase the inequality. Proposed to reduce the tax rate on income from 36% to 30% of citizens who make a salary of, say, 5000 kuna or those who are promised an average salary of 7600 kuna by the end of the term of office, they will receive only a few dozen, a maximum of 100 kuna. But those of us who sit here and others who make 20 or more thousand kunas will get 11, 12 or more percent, or to clarify that, the Prime Minister will receive a higher salary of 3,000 kuna, a worker of 50 kuna, a prime minister of 3,000 kuna. Is that fair colleagues and colleagues? You're talking about tax discharge, and you're not saying that instead of funding schools and kindergartens, you're going to leave several kunas in your pocket, and that's not populism, that's a fact because you've opted for what's called a pure neo-conservative and neo-oliberal economic model, and that's a rich lot, and the poor or medium-size figs. On this, economic development can be justified, but justice and equality can not be justified because the economic development and growth of GDP of 3 or 4% can be achieved so that, as you have proposed today, we provide for 1% of the richest, and we can also base it on the principles of solidarity and justice. You chose this first, you chose to rest on the rich, to help the rich and the poor. Unfortunately, this isn't the only problem. We have the fact that consumer protection is said little or nothing, the only thing you said about the judiciary is that with e-communication, we're going to solve his problems. You talk about the position of workers, you talk about wages, and you ignore the fact that workers get harassed and after hours, that employers stuff them with e-mails and tasks, not a word of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this programme is not a solution, this is just a continuation of the problems that the Republic of Croatia has for years, so of course I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1076	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1077	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like to talk here about what you say in your program and I'm glad it's in the program. However, I personally suggested all this to the Most Club. I'm just going to list a few things that we suggested here in the assembly, which would be very important. You mention it, it means self-sufficiency. When I was talking about self-sufficiency, about Dalmatian Zagora, about Lica, about dying 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, then you were declaring me a horse, a hive, what names you didn't give, but again this people chose me as the prime minister and I'm glad you mentioned it in your program, and you say we're going to launch the Dalmatinska Zagora project, 2 billion Kuna Lika, Gorski Kotar. Prime Minister, 2017 in Split, at a cabinet meeting, you promised 2 billion kuna to Dalmatia forgotten which is in trouble, which is extinct. You've known the Prime Minister since 2017. You accomplished, then I was running for mayor in the second round, just very little I lost, you made that promise at the time. You know, Prime Minister, I'm sorry to have to tell you nothing, nothing, is listed Sinjsko Polje, there are no paths that are very important, and the road connects the life of Sinja with Kukuzovac i.e. Split and the highway, named Sinjsko polje is not, Cetina flows through the middle of the Sinj field, you did not keep that promise. You are instead of these projects that had to be developed, since the county premiere was founded, the prime minister of 100,000 people went from Krka to Neretva, the most potent end of human resources, numerous families, schools die apart, there is no crying dick, most of them hear the cries of parents who follow their children and grandchildren who go out to Ireland, so now Croatia what you boasted is 6% that we have economic growth. We do, but we do have our young people evicted who send their money to their parents and families and 6% of GDP is out of the reach of our evicted young people who have neither the right nor the voice of a letter or an electronic one. Harmful projects are mainly about the environment, it's catastrophic. Prime Minister, is it possible that from Vrgorec to Sinj, in the Cetina region, your minister whom you are now proposing to Ćorić, who was the Minister of Environment in trucks 30 years old, is threatening and traffic, sending this municipal waste from the same landfill from the same municipal conditions from Vrgorec 120 km in Sinj, whether this is waste management, whether harmful projects such as Lečevica waste management centre where water will be threatened, now Split because of the Adriatic and the threat after every less rain, there is no water, 300,000 people drinking water. We've been looking for water in the Constitution, you're not even like a basic human right, it's Slovenia, we don't need to invent it, it's our right. Waste management is a huge problem, but you put them in a minister and combine water and fire, so the environment is very important to mention green policy. And what is crucial is our unspeakable Croatia 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, vermin within the ministries that favored import lobbys so that our village can go evicted and literally have no villages, and without the village there is no rich Croatia. Never again has Croatia been incentivising, we have never again imported food products from EUR 3 billion, and never an empty village. I hope that the proposals I have made you repeat, from banning GMOs to encouraging domestic production with local, will be a local obligation to sell trade chains to other numerous proposals. I'm sorry. Which is only five minutes I'd have a lot more to say. [[Intruder: Time.]] I expect answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1078	Here's the replicas. First respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1079	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj as if you've slept through the last six months, as if you haven't seen what we've seen for the Dalmatian Zagora, as if you haven't seen the signed intervention plan for the Imotska Krajina 240 million kuna, 150 million kuna for the Cetina region, 150 million kuna for Lika, and we've just put these intervention plans as the basis for the new project Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina. Therefore, this particular government has provided a major step forward, the Split-Dalmatia County of the European Funds 5.5 billion kuna has withdrawn. Therefore, if someone has done something for the Dalmatian Zagora and for Dalmatia it is this Government, and precisely because it has recognised that there is a need for further development in the government's programme it has put 2 billion kunas of which these intervention plans are just the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1080	Replica response, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1081	I didn't sleep over, I saw your ministry put a lot of money into buying perfume, I noticed. And as for my promise, to my Zagora, to the Cetina region that we listened to every four years, or to the days of the Alkah, came every step. I look forward to what's written here, but every four years the same story, whatever program, which projects. How much of this has been withdrawn today? But that's every four years. So you ministers were in 2017 in the 5th month in Split where the government in Split said 2 billion kuna for the Split-Dalmatia County, 5 times the same projects you open, crucial. You've forgotten Dalmatia, which is now especially at a difficult time, as is our Slavonia from before. So I didn't sleep over. I listened to a lot of fakes. promises and promises. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1082	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1083	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, you forgot to say as a defender that this government did not withdraw any funds to adapt the Sinj military that were secured from the EU funds and were, should have been disposed of by 2020. So the government of Zoran Milanovic withdrew funds from EU funds, made a project, and this government failed to realise anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1084	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1085	Dear lady MPs, not one government, nor yours where you were not concerned about Sinjo. Sinj was a historic military city and finally the army was returned. The project you're talking about, I hope that those funds will start the project, and the brakes have been all by now. So many of us in Sinj and Cetina were listening to these stories and in the Dalmatian Zagora and the transfer from SDP and HDZ, HDZ to SDP, each time more and more people were going away from your promises. I'm here to welcome what's in the program. I say hello. But I can't believe it just by false promises about key projects. Key projects, it's a fast road from Sinj to... Crosses, or Merge [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on Drnish or a compound [[Intruder: Time.]] Knin, etc. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1086	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1087	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, respected potential future ministers and ministers. I would also say a respected future prime minister, however, has just walked. You know you're politically relevant if the future prime minister walks before you have anything to say. In these five minutes, I don't get to look back at everything I find controversial in this program. I'm going to look back on one sector, and that sector is going to be education. Why education? During this pandemic, and possibly again in the autumn, we could all see, not only how important education is, but how difficult it is to work in the education sector. Not only those who are directly employed in it, some of us, but also all parents who suddenly had to become educational experts and assume the main responsibility for caring for their children’s education. Because of the many things that were not well at the time, which I find hard to believe will now and because of what this sector has been reduced to in recent years, which is that primarily to the sudden reform procedures, it serves as a kind of monument to the one who at some point finds himself in the place of the minister, or the minister of education, instead of focusing on some gradual evolutionary change of systems that in all those education systems that we love so much to see in Europe, proved to be the only successful, we continued to estradize, so that someone built a monument for themselves. Since there was a lot of shouting about it in the media, I was hoping this situation would be something different this time and that the potential future Prime Minister Plenkovic learned a lesson. But it doesn't seem to be the case. Why am I saying that's not the case? Because a man would expect after all the strika that has been going on in recent years, that the name of the potential future minister or minister of education will be first on the mouth of the prime minister, or that he will wait as a stuck rifle that he can finally put his man at the head of that resistor, we have again waited for that name for the longest, which suggests that clearly there was no solution again, and this suggests that the potential itself of future Minister Fuchs is talking about not being sure or not wanting to accept that function earlier. I know this is a difficult situation. That HDZ's dearest coalition partner fell to only one mandater, one, but worth it. Two million kunas worth, as we could have learned, so I daren't ask a question, if they invested 2 million kunas in one mandate, how much can it be worth, being in the ruling structure and how the government works at all. I'm going to look back here at two things that I'm going to refer to as design as questions of potential future Minister Fuchs. Ten years ago, you were making draft laws that ended up almost unanimously, with contempt in the academic community, were rejected. I would not consider this particularly controversial because, you have had your vision, it has not been accepted, democratic processes have ordered it to stop with these proposals. However, you have already announced in an interview that you will apply the model according to which you have made 3 laws during your last term, which suggests to me that you have learned nothing or enough from it. In this sense, I appeal that in a crisis like this, in which education is located, we do not again reach for old solutions that have already proved problematic but that in a constructive spirit we are building something that we can really reach a broader consensus on, and another question concerns the processes in which you have participated, the curriculative reform or the School of Life, you said and agreed, that the necessary evaluation is needed. But how can I believe that you are ready for an impartial evaluation when you yourself took part in the imitation of the evaluation that took place during the last Minister Divjak who carried out the evaluation not two months after the reform entered the bench and didn't withdraw from the bodies in which you were present at the time, and now you're saying you'll really try to make that evaluation happen, so that we can continue with these processes which have proved unquality for the education system. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1088	We have one replica. Dear Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1089	Dear Representatives Selak Dear Representative Selak Rasdic. [[Wait, wait, wait.]] Can I? Please time again because I was distracted by this bell ring, can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1090	So are you talking to her all the time?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1091	No wonder, this is the government of continuity. This is the government that's the most shameless and... the political trade that took place, where people voted for a left coalition, which the SDP had towed, and then the part of the HNS broke down and formed power with HDZ, and the Ministry of Education was used as a fig leaf because the HNS was more likely to care deeply about continuing the reform of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, interests were in the energy sector and in some other things, and what is most important, the medium-term higher, let alone in the long term for Croatia, which is a quality reform of education used only as a fig leaf for this shameful political trade. Because it's about the government of the same prime minister's continuity, which we see now that he's gone. I didn't have any illusions that this could be different, I think we should start from that. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1092	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1093	Respect for all of you, respect for you Vice President HS and all of you distinguished colleagues of MPs HS and colleagues. I'm sorry he's not here and the Prime Minister, so here I am, and I'm sorry if he's not here future, I believe he's going to be Minister, Coric, but here I'd like to say a few important things. First, I'm sorry that at the level of hs interpersonal relations i believe that we can raise it to a higher level, so from the moment Mr. Prime Minister threw fellow Tomasevic, to the moment where colleague Peović, i don't know, i don't see her, really nice communicating here at the assembly, but then on Twitter, she writes that they're parliamentary representatives, she calls these parliamentary representatives right-handed, who held their hands on the heart during the intonation of the anthem, they reminded her of zombies. Well, I really think it's very important that we build our humanity and ultimately human relations beyond this assembly and show those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who chose us here that we can still communicate at a certain level. I don't really see zombies around me here, if I did, I'd be worried anyway, but here's the party president as my shrink, so I'd probably have my first conversation with him. On the other hand, what I'm saying is that I believe that we who are believers and colleagues who are atheists to breathe the same air, to move the same streets, to eat the food we have in our country. Speaking of fresh air, distinguished MPs, I need to talk about Mariscina. So it's amazing that in February the Public Health School measured at only one point and said 116 illicit chemical compounds in the air, of which 12 very dangerous, of which 5 carcinogens. Guys, this is happening in my area, in my 8th constituency. Four workers working there at the County Waste Management Center in their body were found to have illicit chemical compounds. People, we can say, are poisoned. It is unacceptable that we here at HS do not do everything we can, and thus the mandate of our government and the ministry's competent portfolio to stop this poisoning of people and ecocid, so to prevent the closure or closure of Mariscino, to prevent the ecocid. Let us not forget about 1200 meters from Mariščina there is a large settlement in Marchelja, and only a few hundred meters from Mariščina is the source of the river, so the source of drinking water, so please do here everything we can to stop the ecocid and human poisoning. It's also very interesting and I'm asking here who's going to take responsibility for it, enough is enough in our political society no matter what platforms they belong to, who's going to do this or that and when things that aren't supposed to happen, no one wants to take responsibility. If we have the fact that in February they measured this data and we find out, the Croatian public finds out in July, who is responsible, who was hiding the data? From this place, the highest place in our society HS is asking the public the question, who will account for the Croatian citizens and possibly who will be responsible to the Croatian public for poisoning the people of Mariščina and for the threat of the ecocid that is happening in the area. What is important is also to say that, in addition to the closure of Mariščina emergency, we are asking for the launch of a public tender for the takeover of waste, to be urgently at the level of all cities and municipalities in the PGG to decide on the management of municipal waste where it will be clear that biodegradable municipal waste must be collected separately and locally composted. We ask the European Commission to change technology in Mariscina. So let's be totally plastic. A huge amount of money has been withdrawn, 71% of all funds have been withdrawn and the County Waste Management Centre has been built that has the following effect, people are being poisoned and ecocid is happening. That's inadmissible. Please, let's do everything we can to get this over with right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1094	Thank you. Two replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1095	Representative Miletic, the Centre for Waste Management is an example of poor waste management that threatens the lives and health of people, and Marišćina is the example you warn and argued about, but what you expect from Minister Ćorić, who is now named, which is essentially a product of this policy and who wants not only that I personally support those people who live near the Mariščina Waste Management Centre who lives in very difficult conditions and who is deprived of the right to free, healthy, clean air. It's the same with the Centres of Other Waste Management, an example of Lečevica where it's going to be threatened by the entire plum, that's where the Zrmanja River, Cetina, is all, I mean simply amazing. This is why waste management is the most important thing and I am giving absolute support to all people, associations in this area in the fight to preserve their health and health. the lives of his children and that he is mastered by waste as he belongs. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1096	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. This is the third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1097	I'm sorry. I have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1098	And the answer, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1099	No problem, we're here. It's human error. So, what I want to mention here again, I want to commend the citizens who are almost 9 years old. gathered at the Association of Crisis Ecostor Mariščina are fighting this ecocid and endangering health. Also, not to be like a colleague who's gone, who's probably got 200 votes, but that's legitimate, we and those who have these or those. So this is the situation, and it's very important to say something else, that there is no time, that the citizens asked me to speak from this place and say that there is no time but that Mariscina must be shut down urgently, and they will, if it doesn't happen, use all the legitimate and democratic rights to keep it closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1100	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1101	Thank you. Dear fellow Minister Miletic, I think it is very good that you have positively and constructively approached this debate. We've had everything to hear these last days, since the attacks on appointments proposed by the opposition, the problems of people who have no reason to be troublesome at all, and it's good to talk about specific topics, I'm proud that the MOST Club is discussing today in a reasoned and constructive manner and it's not just this waste management centre that you're talking about. We have a problem with Kaštion in Istria, we have a problem with this Marinščina, we have a problem with Lečevica, we have a problem with Luka's Distance, so all of these are waste management centres that will not solve the problems that we have, which will collect waste disposal and garbage to our citizens, we must finally turn to the circulatory economy, it has been MOST since the beginning advocated and we will continue to advocate it here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1102	Here, please answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1103	The answer can be given by MP Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1104	...respected fellow MP Nikola Grumoja, what we can commend to the County in Međimurje very well solved and that they managed to lift it to 50% of their entire story was waste through only 2-3 years. So here we have positive examples in our society and we can learn where the obvious thing can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1105	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1106	We have not heard a single word about the state of the EU in the proposed government programme as well as in the speech of the prime minister, we pretend that there is no big elephant in the EU's room. The elephant's absence may be where the elephant should be, and that's Brexit. We have not heard from the former prime minister now any problems, no strategic thinking about EU problems, and problems exist and manifest more and more, Brexit is only a culmination of these problems and what strategic thinking of Croatia and the position in these problems and their resolution. I'd say EU rescue. The EU's first problem is a democratic deficit, and EU citizens sense that decisions are increasingly made by people, bodies, institutions that no one has directly chosen and which are not directly responding to anyone. That's where all the problems come from. And we see how this estranged oligarchy is getting more and more oblivious than the referendum. The problem began with a referendum on the EUR in Sweden, Sweden had a referendum, we will have a very certain referendum, because such an arrogant acceleration of the introduction of the EUR without quality public debate is clearly counterproductive and the referendum will be. Since the referendum on EUR in Sweden on the rejection of the Irish Lisbon Agreement 2008, Brexit and the Dutch rejection of enlargement to Ukraine, de facto it was only a symbol to reject further enlargement beyond the wishes of the Brussels oligarchy. We have no word on the problem of EU red tape. The fact that there is a huge gap between the level at which the fathers were founders of the coal and steel community, which later grows into a healthy economic community that will then continue to grow into an unhealthy attempt by the supranational state and political union. There is no such talk about this estranged red tape on the staff devastion of the EU institutions. As I felt as an EU citizen at the time of the terrorist attack on Brussels, EU Commissioner for Security and Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini at that time found herself in Istanbul, we as EU citizens threatened by the attack on the heart of the EU expect from her a word of comfort, firmness, which we expect to do, as Federica Mogherini cries at a press conference and says it is difficult for her. How do you trust such people and such institutions? Imagine a Winston Churchill at the moment of Hitler's attack on Britain that he was whining on BBC and talking about his private feelings. Here, today is your best example of this staff devastation of Brussels bureaucracy and oligarchy. I'm not even saying this as a euro skeptic, I'm talking like a euro realist. Personally, I believe that the idea of European integration is good and that it was good at European Economic Community level, that the thing should point to problems and that problems should be solved, to save a united Europe. And such an arrogant and arrogant approach, where there is no such thing as deep and structural problems, the EU will only have a counterproductive effect. Mystification is Schengen, so Schengen has fallen apart twice in recent years before our eyes. It fell apart at the moment of the migrants' crisis and where all of a sudden every country raises national boundaries as a wire, as an army. When we speak, the second time it fell apart now in a situation of the crown of the virus, suddenly the national states again and the national borders. So, Schengen is a story for little children. I would like to hear from the prime minister a review of what the former prime minister, now President Zoran Milanovic, said several months ago in the presidential election campaign that in the situation of the migrant crisis, Angela Merkel asked him to keep 100,000 migrants in Croatia. So obviously it was a plan for Croatia to become a hot spot from which then Germany and other countries would choose their own people for the labour markets, and I guess we as concentration guards of these people would keep them there by force. Milanovic said that at least 3-4 times in public, we did not hear Mr Plenkovic's review. Is Milanovic lying or did Merkel really ask for that monster thing? And how to trust such an EU and how to expect the citizens who have seen the example of Greece that introduced the EURo that was happening to them, and on the other hand, that Sweden rejects it in the referendum or that countries like us that have made very good progress unlike Croatia in recent years do not have the EURo. It is neither Poland nor Hungary nor Romania, for example. I think it is still up to us, that both the EUR and the EUR can be better or worse, but we need to discuss European problems. So, civilized, reasoned, rational, not migrating into euro fanatic myths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1107	Thank you. Three replicas. First respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1108	Our policy towards the EU in the pre-accession process is being charged. We're, we're not self-sufficient anymore, we're just their market. All when they called on us to join the EU did not tell the truth to the people, before the referendum, which was also anti-constitutional because it was changed in the year and it does not take 50% of the people to come out. So they had no power to declare the exclusive economic belt to which the EU and international law urged us. Protect our sea, so we haven't protected our agricultural land. Hungarians do not sell agricultural land, we have now received more moratorium in 3 years, but Hungary will be able to buy agricultural land in Croatia. We, therefore, were only good servants in this matter of the EU, so we had to arrest all the generals, declare the IGP in order to enlist Carly del Ponte and European officials to welcome us into the EU, and now it comes to our charge, two-thirds of Croatia are empty because of this European donut policy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1109	Answer the distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1110	Dear Representative Bulj, we have not even used one comparative advantage, which we have as a member of the EU to achieve some of the objectives set out in this declaration that has not been reported to the Parliament for 2 years even though it has been in the declaration. I do not claim that Croatia should bilaterally blackmail BiH for some of its own interests, as did Slovenia to Croatia, but it can condition some European values, which is a change of electoral law, as it was in Dayton, which will guarantee every constituent people that they will choose their own political representatives. I will give an example of a document called the Declaration of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the adoption of Council conclusions on the process of enlargement and stabilisation and accession. So, a binding document concerning Macedonia, where Bulgaria very clearly cites some of Macedonia's conditions for the continuation of negotiations. So, Croatia can say, BiH will not take a step towards the EU until the electoral law returns to the Dayton grounds, as previously imposed changes that have not passed the parliamentary procedure in BiH, from Barry's amendments and beyond, which are European values.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1111	The next replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1112	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative Rasdic. Thank you for touching this topic for the reason that it has never been presented to us, and the Dutch prime minister expressed concern about EU borrowing, here, I have checked the capital market, so the future generation's maturity is 2058. Croatian people have a great fear of borrowing because we've been in charge since we were in charge, so here we are, asking this question, how does the EU think about paying back that money? This has not been notified to us here in Croatia, whether taxes will be introduced, as Mr Zekanovic asked, or perhaps compensation for the use of the free market, which is an automatic violation of the EU's very idea and again, I say that as a Eurorealist. And further, what are the structural changes that we, Croatia, must introduce in order to get all the money we are promised?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1113	Answer, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1114	Dear counterpart Troscott, I think it is a good thing Croatia joined the EU, it is unfortunate that only 43% of citizens came out of the referendum on Brexit, which was spitted here by as much as 72%. It is good that we entered, however, it is unfortunate that all those years before 2013 this debate was held at the level of myths. I'd expect 2010, '11, '12. on public television that we will have in the Open one expert who is for the EU and the other who is against, that the public can hear arguments about and against and then make a decision at the referendum. It wasn't, but we were told some myths, there are some funds that the Germans and others will charge, and we'll pull, that's the verb pulling. So what did we wait for after seven years? Emptyed Croatia and the mass of young people in Ireland and Germany, we are overwhelmed by foreign products, destroyed domestic production, but I repeat, it is still up to us, and similar to these myths and that someone will feed us and have free lunches I hear today, which I think is bad, I don't think is a bad result, this deal, but in a bad way it communicates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1115	Next replica, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1116	Dear Representative Rasudic, you expect some sovereign actions from the current prime minister, and how do you expect them when he has already moved on to something called new sovereignty? I'm glad I've cheered up possible future ministers and I hope to continue doing so. So, possible new sovereignty, no one knows what it is, but I have a picture that tells me what it might be. So from the part relating to investment in education, science and research, it says that the education system must be inclusive, in brackets inclusive, so it is clearly assumed that we have already forgotten Croatian language, so we must translate the word inclusive. I would like the deputy who has not sought to explain to me the difference between inclusive and inclusive, and to me it seems to be here, and that this is the essence of new sovereignty, the Croatian language of rash as some antipod to Bogoslav Šulek, which is what we should all strive for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1117	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1118	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic. The necessary consequences of the democratic deficit are always red tape from the Soviet Union to the EU at the decadent stage it is today, seeking some kind of anthropological experiment imposed on societies and new speech. It's a new speech. I am sad to have the impression that it is done in Croatia to ensure future Brussels careers. As his great successes, Mr. Plenkovic presented what he had put in high places in European institutions by a couple of ladies from his party. As Mamic boasts he sold large clubs, so he goes to large institutions. I just don't see what good it is for us. And when we talk about Brexit, we're convinced that the English are some idiots who are here, committed suicide, and now they're going to be hungry, they're going to fall for the pound, all that didn't happen. I put it this way once. Well, for God's sake, England didn't take out Oxford and Cambrigde, Chesterton and Shakespeare, Victoria and Elizabeth, Churchill and Margaret Thatcher to give them Dubravka Schica a hat. I understand what they're going out with. But let's save the EU. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1119	Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1120	Thank you. Good morning, Miro. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, very little in the assembly, something touched on the colleagues from the SDP, talked about what to do about starting our economy, attracting investment, some talking about starting an industry, but they didn't say anything in particular. So things are very simple, but for them we should have courage. What MOST advocates is that such a small country of 4 million people does not need 3 levels of government. We need two levels of government. It is a central state and cities and municipalities, no county, no regions that some advocate, not only are these regions dangerous for national cohesion, they will never pass, they will never agree to be under Rijeka, they will never agree to be under Split, they will never agree to be under Zadar. So a strong central state, cities and municipalities that are decentralised and have powers, especially these strong cities, the powers of the county. This will mean a smaller state apparatus, not only what Prime Minister Plenkovic is talking about, that he will reduce the number of local politicians and officials. Such a law was already in its previous term, directed by the MOST Club, the Law on Regional and Local Self-Government, which would reduce the number of officials by a much larger number than Plenkovic suggests. This law is not that you didn't vote here in HS, and I see a lot of celebrities, but you didn't even allow a debate about that law. It shows how ready you are for reform, it shows how ready you are for change. When we take that first step of rationalization, all that money needs to be rerouted to our citizens and our economy, it's Mrs. Peovic road, the only way to run our economy. In order to attract investment, we need to address the question of the judiciary. In the first procedure, our processes and procedures take almost a year. Once a procedure, once an object goes to a higher level, we have to model some other countries in a way that no more going back to a lower level and that once the procedure begins, there is no ending until its end. That's what some ambassadors in the Republic of Croatia were talking about, I certainly support it. So it can't happen to us that the process lasts 10 years. e.g. about the collection of a certain claim, and that the state is charging VAT, so immediately instead of charging it at the expense of the claim, especially if there is such a judiciary in which the procedures for the collection of the claim are being carried out for 10 and more years. The judiciary is a cancer of the early Croatian society, very little has been said here in particular in the Croatian Parliament. Also, who here today talked about the completed and blocked? Only the Most Club. What do you need to do? It is necessary to deprivatise the executive procedure, return the executive proceedings to courts, the public notebooks in this entire process make a lot of money and, of course, it all falls on the back of Croatian citizens. What we saw in the last term that this government is not ready, it is not ready to stand firm against banks that make extra profits in the Republic of Croatia. Slovenia introduced a moratorium on interest and loans as the first measure in the coronary crisis in March. This government didn't have the courage to do it, but only introduced the moratorium to do it, and that's what I think only in May, probably to hold the elections of those who need to be held, and the question now is what will happen to that measure and how many of us now completed and blocked citizens are expecting us. So we have a plan and a program, we have clear solutions, we need to talk about them, and those who will talk about what is bad in the Republic of Croatia, there are plenty of those here in HS, I invite them all to when these solutions come to debate and vote to support them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1121	Thank you. We have 3 replicas, the first respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. I've got a replica of a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy, who just wasn't 100%, so in his presentation, he was concrete, so I'd upgrade him. So, the whole story of the development of the economy depends on the fact that nepotism and corruption must be abolished by the end, and Mr. esteemed representative of Grmoje here will be at the head of the Anti-Corruption, if I understand it, councils, and will fight there as much as possible, like all of us at the Most Club. For example. These days come to me from the Rijeka Student Center very interesting data about nepotism and corruption, I gave them all a check, they seem very serious and we have to fight each and every one of us where corruption and nepotism are against, we have to build a society where those who deserve to progress in their education and education and their abilities, and not those who are similar to some political platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1123	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1124	Thank you, dear fellow Miletic, for the update. I spoke of the fight against corruption in the replica I gave to Prime Minister Plenkovic, and what I hope is that the MOST Club will propose me to be president of the Anti-Corruption Council, I hope I won't have obstructions. In the last term, we've been waiting for the appointment of outside members at all so that the council could function. I hope here we will be a driver in the fight against corruption and that we will force the government, here I see that Minister Grlic-Radman, has not yet delivered travel expenses from Australia that prove corruption in our embassies, at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which is why diplomat Damir Sabelak, the father of the two girls, who discovered corruption, away from the service, whose proceedings are still going on, is a shame that you did to that man, but there are those of us who will not leave him and who will be here As fierce as ever to fight corruption. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1125	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1126	Thank you very much. So, my esteemed colleague, Grumoja, and I was part of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, and I understand that your proposals on the rationalization of public administration have a good intention. However, I want to ask you a question as to what is with the municipalities here like my or similar municipalities that are persistently falling on the reports of the Office of State Administration which do not listen to the instructions, which, for example, here, I will not mention right now, but there are still such other mayors who are in possession of state land and do not want to carry out a revaluation of the rent price of the same land or, say, the mayors of municipalities who are not implementing EU projects precisely so that we do not all know that EU projects are subject to a far greater number of controls than all investments that occur in such municipalities occur from the pockets of citizens of that municipality, but also to the citizens of the Republic, what with such ones? I honestly don't want to shut down, but here's a suggestion for you to make with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1127	Thank you. Time. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1128	So the non-transparentity of a local leader can't be the reason for the removal of some municipality. The reason for the abolition may be the fact that this municipality does not solve all the problems of its citizens, that it is actually unnecessary. No matter what you are no longer in the Bridge, I would like to congratulate you for your fight for a better Croatia, you lost the principal seat. All of us who dared to lift that banner of freedom in this Croatia were overwhelmed by this system. Some laugh here, but I know what kind of battle we fought, battles like you never fought. Bozo Petrov's President Mosta was attacked by attackers, struck by an ashtray three times in the head, a physical attack, a man barely survived. That's what you've been exposed to, Mrs. Vukovac. But this banner of freedom, we will continue here proudly, will not stop us, and the municipalities will shut down those who are not effective and for which there is no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1129	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1130	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy. You're talking about corruption and justice, so the fish are getting clean of their heads. We have a documented case at WikiLeaks in 2011 that has come out about how then chief state attorney Bajic and USKOK director Cvitan are reporting to the US foreign embassy specifically on investigations conducted and showing secret documents. And what happened? Nothing. I wonder why the Assembly Committees didn't discuss it? What would happen in America if the individuals of this rank were referred to the foreign embassy and showed confidential documents? And it's all documented, it's all on WikiLeaks. And then what do you expect? Only the deputy changes the deputy then we get a top state attorney who's found out he's a member of the Paramason Lodge where some fraud from Serbia's Chad Zapeta in a pizzeria from an Italian con artist gets a light from someone so it's transferred here so now he's there with an apron in the Paramason lodge. So he goes away, and his deputy comes back again, so it's like the midwives are just like. Until it breaks, no judicial purification, no crime and no corruption, no economic growth, no investment. It's a fight for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1131	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1132	Our partners and allies are quite clear, they are in the west, but this does not mean that as little as Croatia can behave in the way you have now described. No one was responsible for that. After all, we have chosen a man who worked against the interest of the Croats in BiH to show these reports and what has leaked in the WikiLeaks affair. So we need politicians to protect the interests of the Croatian people, not these spent personnel from the former regime, which are today some of them proposed for ministers and vice-presidents in the Croatian government, such will certainly not lead Croatia where we want to go. We opposed that system, but we opened the archives here from the former regime that this team quickly closed because it doesn't suit them the truth. But we will fight for the truth, the truth will eventually come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1133	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1134	Thank you, Vice President. Here's since I'm late for two lines, I'd just like to get a hold of myself before I go to my colleague Rasdic's presentation. My colleague Raspoudić here I have been working for 14 years in the system of education, in fact, the problem of our entire country is that we haven't had any clear strategies for many years that we could come from something to get somewhere. More or less come down to the moments of the lucidity of a particular minister where certain attempts can be characterised as good, defined as bad. As for Mr. Bulj, of course, and I am late, respecting Mr. Pavic's work, here's to me an extremely likable minister from the government, for sure that Minister Pavić of the Immotical Top List, knows in fact that certain infrastructure investments are not the ones that will leave that people from the region up there, which does not mean that we should not thank and clap at least once. And now I'd look back on what I'm doing right now, and it's actually three years old, and that's the head of the community. Speaking from experience, and I believe that he will agree with me and colleagues who act similar or the same function, in fact, such a regional structure in the Republic of Croatia is not the one that can be sustainable in the long term. If we take into account 428 municipalities, 127 cities, and then we continue to explore and review the data, we come to a simple conclusion, which is that 256 municipalities and 106 cities are in or in the hands of HDZ, SDP and their coalition partners. Definitely, I don't mean badly, or well, because I respect the work of every fellow who, regardless of what policy options he came from, is actually trying, sacrificing, and here's his work to show that politics can still be what it really should be, and that's serving above all the people who chose us. If we look at the general re-organization of our entire beautiful homeland, we come up with a frantic figure of over 3,000 actually officials. The reason why I don't believe what this government would do is that the Minister Malenica who's already had the opportunity, and that's why he and I talked about it in 4 eyes after one of our dealings. What the Croatian state definitely needs is one drastic cut in the number of units of local self-government. Whether these criteria will be the population number, whether these criteria will be the budget, I don't know which would be the best, but this situation is definitely not good. What concerns me is the fact that for many years we've had this condition, and I can't help but get the impression if I start from the middle I come from, actually, that the most common JLS is actually a purpose to ourselves and exist so that the electoral body could be controlled. MOST made a clear proposal. The elimination of counties as such that in some way the whole story and this whole problem, I don't know what their purpose is. If someone's story will be turned around that they're the founders of schools, so if I'm not mistaken, my colleague Brkan is the founder of a school in Makarska whose headmistress I knew personally, and there was no problem in the sense of working by the school towards the city, the city was more than well pleased with everything that should be. The abolishing of the county drastic cut of JLS is actually what could lead the Croatian state to one stage to make it what we have heard here many times at least in this administration self-sustainable and self-sufficient. Another thing that, here's my time coming out, I'm going to hurry up, it's unclear to me what reason I'm going with the motion to abolish a deputy official. Well, for God's sakes, why don't we just legally put the deputy mayor, the deputy mayor, must be a volunteer without compensation, because he'll probably do a lot more of us a better job. On the other hand, the reduction in the number in the representative body is also one of, here I think, symptomatic things, because for which reason we would not legislate that a member of the representative body must carry out his duty for one single Kuna, not that most often of course be a purpose to themselves and... [[Intruder: Time]] The fees he'll get. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1135	Here are two replicas, first respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Kujundzic, thank you for your commendation and thank you for your sympathies, too. Also when you were recently in Imotski at the handover of the Intervention Plan Treaty, all your projects and municipalities of Podbablje were inside, so it was just another proof of how great the focus of even regional development was on this government. When we talk about the structure of the county, let's just look at the European funds and the Split-Dalmatia County, over €5.5 billion of funding is invested in the county and just that synergy between national levels, regional levels, local levels like you and European levels where we can get €22 billion, show that this is the right way. I am therefore surprised that you continue to support the abolition of the county when they were a key element of the development of your landscape.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1137	Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1138	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1139	Yeah, here's two things. Here's Mr. Pavic, actually you know that in the past three years. At the level of the Republic of Croatia, more than 2,800 people were admitted in the counties, the efficiency I don't know what it is, whether we're going to measure it through that number you said or not, let's let all colleagues judge it. As for the Imogeneous landscape of course, I have commended your, personally your efforts, personally your engagement. But at the same time, I want to point out the next thing, which is that the property landscape has been devastated in the past 30 years. both infrastructureal and mental. It is tragic that Imotska krajina is the standard HDZ electoral body since it received it most often very little. On the other hand, the last capital project will sound ironic to you, which Imotska krajina got was actually obtained by a man who's on the condemning bench today, that's Mr. Ivo Sanader, and I'm talking about the tunnel of St. Elijah. So here I am sincerely hoping that everyone who comes to your place will take care of the dead Dalmatian Zagora because as long as there is someone worse, we need Keep it. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1140	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. It is clear to all colleagues Kujundzic that the counties should be abolished, and all the rest are cosmetic games that are determined whether they play in our society. After the county is abolished, then we will descend to the cities, but in the dimension of my city of Rijeka, where for example. There are more than 520 people who are employed, and the city of Rijeka has 2374 companies with which it works, and then one day we may also have a bus station that has promised us in Rijeka since 2011, perhaps one day when we change power. As for my colleagues who show me an hour down, you have to get used to it, we MOSTs take this job very seriously and responsibly, and this is how you're going to be the next 4 years. No less or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1142	I wouldn't have anything to add, I agree with my colleague Marina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1143	Okay. The following individual debate is being held by MP Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1144	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Already mentioned, I will return to it, as regards the financial framework and the future generation fund, what was one of the EU's conclusions is that 30% of these funds will be invested in a green or climate-friendly economy. What I'm actually happy about in these thrift countries has managed to work out that every country can veto, for example, projects that will not be adequately and effectively funded. Now, I would not like to go back into wind power plants and other projects, but I would like to touch on certain projects that we have funded from the EU, and I think they have turned out to be a big problem. The first project that was thus financed from the European Investment Bank via the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the Hydrocentrala Ilovac on the Cup near Ozlja. First of all, I would like to point out that we are for energy, but energy policy, however, it is very important to make some optimal ratio and that these energy capital projects that have been built not to cause ecosystems like Ilovac, where in 10 km from the very hydroelectric dry willows stand and kill all fish and flora and fauna. Furthermore, we would like to, today, Mr Marin Miletic spoke about Mariscina, and I would like to withdraw the parallel in the 7th constituency, given that this is a big, big problem, and therefore the Babin Gora Waste Management Centre in the city of Karlovac, where the access road to the centre has already been made, the value of this project is 270 million kuna, of which 195 has been financed from EU funds. What is the problem of this waste management centre is that it is also built on the source of the river and 4 rivers of Karlovac, so where through the karst canals, it comes to the rivers themselves that destroys again potentially rivers that are already bleeding in Karlovac. We would like to point out that these projects, which have been funded by the EU and by the European Investment Bank, should in particular be notified to the European Court of Auditors for the reasons that ecosystems have been made in that area. Although not funded by the EU yesterday, I touched this problem, which is the hydrocentre of Lesce, I can't see from here whether Mr. Coric is here, but Mr. Prime Minister was also on the helicopter driving over the Good River, which is now being sent to me by people from the very area, what it looks like when that tsunami from Lesce is released with that cold water, where further bathing of the local population has been disabled, that I am not saying that the entire flora and fauna of that area has been destroyed, and all the studies and I am glad that Mr. Tomaševic touched that led to the construction of these projects are instructions that all these areas where the projects that should have been reported to the auditor court have been made. So these studies show that economic benefits and no benefits are actually given to the local population. And I would be very pleased to see such projects hitched to, and at EU level, that we no longer build such projects that are extremely dangerous to the local population and, on the other hand, that someone really becomes responsible for these, these ecosystems that are happening in our space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1145	Thank you. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, reading the two documents we have here, and this is the government's 2020-2020 programme and the 2016-2020 programme when you read chapters on foreign policy sentences are absolutely the same. Croatia will benefit from EU membership, Croatia will decide together in the EU, Croatia will benefit from its position in NATO, the EU, etc., etc. So I'm just asking myself a question, and what's been done these four years before and what we're going to do in these four years that's coming to us. According to what I read in the program, absolutely nothing is done because all the maltenes written in the former government program are repeated. It's just a bit of a changed paragraph, it's just a little bit of a changed sentence, if you're reading it concentrated and it'll be clear to you. This is someone working to say the popular copy paste. We have some differences, though. He says after the first and successful EU presidency. I have not heard of the success of the EU presidency at least these praises anywhere except in Croatia. If you look at a little bit and some foreign media, you will see that most of the media that are monitoring the EU problem disagrees. We did not find ourselves in the new situation of the epidemic, we did not impose topics that should benefit Croatia and we did not strike the pace of the Union. The Union that has fallen, and lately it seems to me that the word Eurorealist means actually a Eurosceptic, but well that's another question, the Union is definitely at a turning point, and instead of taking that more visible and active role, we've basically come down to an observer who runs meetings. The impact we use in the EU of colleagues and colleagues also according to the writing of some independent media in the Union of Croatia and Slovenia has the least impact, and I believe that because we strategically do not know what we want, because strategically it says that our goals are to join Schengen and the EURo. The only reason, i.e. the only change from the programme before and from the programme, is now that the programme does not mention the EUR, but only Schengen. Did we reach him? We're still not colleagues and colleagues. I'm very glad to mention multilateral organisations, it's the same thing new, say the Council of Europe. And I wonder if it would be mentioned that we do not have the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, which is from Croatia. Likewise, if we are already stressing such cooperation with the Council of Europe, it is very interesting why we are losing so much judgment before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the francophony is the same new thing that I have not had the opportunity to read in the previous programme. The Zagreb Declaration is in fact the only success of our presidency, which is also half-way, and I am very glad that the links with Africa and the African Union are stressed, the opening of the Embassy in Ethiopia, etc. It is very sad that we are not using the network we already have, or our diplomacy is reduced to the enthusiasm of individuals and diplomats who work in it. But I don't think we've capitalized enough, and here I think the head of the office has something to say, our embassy in Morocco or in some other countries that Magreba is making North Africa and still. And in the end, we come to these famous 22 billion, which we have received in the first place from Brussels to 100,000 new jobs. But I ask you again, the prime minister says the government's job didn't interfere with the decision to restructure private companies, but is it the government's job to open jobs? Well, colleagues and colleagues aren't exactly what I was saying, creating a stimulating environment for economic development. We did it if our factories shut down in a row and guess where? In Slavonia, which is what I said was already a devastated region. Are these the results of the famous project “Slavonia”? I'm going to repeat Virovitic Sugar, Meggle and more people who don't want to, but have to leave Croatia, have to look for their safety somewhere else. Is this safe Croatia and are the results of the withdrawal of money from funds how will we withdraw money for the new project “Slavonia”? If it's two billion kuna, we'll barely withdraw half a billion. But at the end of the day, I have to repeat, the restored social homes, new collectors, new lighting, etc. will not keep people in Croatia. The only thing that can keep them is what I was talking about before, and that is the sole responsibility of the government, the stimulating economic environment. In Slavonia there is agriculture, of course, processing industry and IT industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1147	We have three replicas, the distinguished representative Romana Nikolic is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1148	Dear Representative Hajdukovic. All you've said is quite true, I'd just briefly point out that one of the key problems is more famous, and the program has not come to the attention of the future government and the departure of young higher educations who don't want to live on welfare and leave with the whole family. Croatia stands out for education, and as it began to emigrate, it looks like we are educateing academic citizens for the EU. The problem of youth leaving rural areas is also affecting elderly people who remain without regulated pensions, who are on the verge of existence. They are recorded to have children, but in reality they are often completely unsettled due to distance and objective conditions because they do not fit into existing regulations. The relevant institutions should necessarily identify the real situation and regulate regulation based on this practical problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1149	The answer is Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1150	Comrade Nikolic, you're absolutely right here. The government is talking about 100,000 new jobs, and I wonder if we have so many people who will be able to occupy those jobs and say so? I'm afraid not, and I'm afraid that this wave, unfortunately, is very ominous that went to Slavonia, will continue, and I'm afraid there will be even more loss of jobs. And while the government opens up these famous jobs, the question is how do we fill them? Are we going to import labor, where we're going to import it, and how? BiH, which is so much talked about here and the care of the Croats in BiH, I think that the Croatian interest should be strategically to stay there on their hearths and there develop the same and preserve our culture and customs. But these same Croats from BiH are forced to come to Croatia. And finally, as you said young people leave, not just from the village and from the city, and this raises the sustainability of the pension system and the entire system in general. How's that gonna end? I'm afraid I don't want a bad prophet, but not well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1151	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic. I must admit I was a little disappointed by your negatively intrinsic debate. You were very active in the past meeting about the European institutions and you participated in the work of various international bodies and what is definitely recognizable I will remind you that Croatia entered the EU on 1 July 2013, compromise what was during Milanovic's government, which was during Plenkovic's government. I will also look back at what distinguished counterpart Rada Boric said, five women most positioned in the institutions at European level are all women who come from Croatia starting with Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric whom you mentioned, who certainly is not the Secretary General of the Council of Europe there, but is also the result of the recognition of everything that Andrej Plenkovic did as Croatian Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1153	The answer is Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1154	Thank you very much. We worked together in these bodies, and you know exactly what happened. But I'm going here with exact data, so I'm comparing two documents that say maltenes with the exact same thing. If it writes identically then I can only assume that the goals are not met. If we're going to strengthen our interest within the EH, but I'm always wondering how, what are our interests? It used to be Schengen where we joined Schengen we didn't, well that's a complicated story we both know, so there's a political dimension and technical dimension and so on, now a new euro is being mentioned. But it doesn't seem to me that we're getting closer to these goals, but that we're getting further and further, and you know for yourself what the debates are like inside the EU. As for leading people in the EU, I would like to have as many as possible, but it does not guarantee that we will meet these goals. It is above all on us and on the new old Minister Grlic Radman, who was before and now, everything is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1155	Further replicated representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable parliamentary representatives. Mr. Hajdukovic. I would ask you if in your debate you forgot to mention our use of European funds by paid funds? We are at 36% while the EU average is 48%, so I hope that the two billion currently planned from the financial envelope will be rerouted to another area with that percentage. I hope it doesn't happen, and I want it fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1157	The answer is Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1158	Thank you very much, ma'am. Antholic Vupra. You're right, and that's a big problem we've been talking about today all day. So, out of this 22 billion euros we got you, it's not helicopter money, which is said, it's not our endowed money. The better question is, do we have projects for that money? Do we have a vision of what we want to do with that money? It's part of it. It's a lot of it's dedicated money. Half of that money will not come in the form of projects but will come in the form of loans, that is, a very, very complicated situation. We now need to deal with how, where and how we will withdraw that money, to take advantage of it as much as possible, because, as you said, we are unfortunately at 36%, well below the EU average in withdrawing money. That's the data, the exact data from Eurostat today. And if we don't have projects for the next period, we're already losing. So, the project fund is exhausted, if we have any new ones. It's a question of all questions and it's a question that we want an answer to.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1159	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If the Government had been proposed in accordance with the Constitution, that is, if it had been elected in accordance with the Constitution, which is not, it is not constitutional and therefore not legitimate or legal, I would still have voted against it and because of corruption. Mr. Plenkovic, the president of the Federal Republic of Germany, Christian Wulff, had to resign because an entrepreneur paid him an extra charge of the hotel room in Munich. But the entrepreneur used the state guarantee Niedersachsen at a time when Wulff was the government's president in Niedersachsen and he had to step down for 400 euros. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been permanently exposed to investigations by the state's attorney's office, but also to the police, due to the possible favoring of certain companies, i.e. for possible corruption. These are examples of the functioning of the legal system. The functional legal system is a fundamental prerequisite for economic progress and social stability. You are Mr. Plenkovic, 2017. Dnevnica affairs, held a press conference on the subject in the presence of then state attorney Cvitan. After this press, the current SDP representative and the close, then, pardoned SDP representative and close associate of the former prime minister and then, and today's President Milanovic, Tomislav Sauch, then suddenly began to vote for you and your government. The act cannot be called an influence on the judiciary, it was a public demonstration of legal violence, with a clear message that there are no laws in Croatia, but exclusively political power. Corruption, colleagues and colleagues can only work if the regular system does not work and there is a catch. From Mesic, Sanader, Bandic, to you, Mr Plenkovic and your associates, we are listening to the most hated sentence in the Croatian public political space, let the institutions do their job. And the two parties, specifically HDZ and SDP with the arms of the deep state, the former state, are doing everything in their power not to do their jobs. If the institutions did their job, then the Borg affairs would result in your resignation, and Martina Dalic and other participants in the affair would be brought to justice before an effective judiciary. But since you're clearly in control of the judiciary, your attorney's office has made you clean by emergency procedure. Let me remind you, until April last year On the way in... [[Intruder: Please put on the mask.]] You didn't interrupt either, Mr. Salapic, he didn't have a mask, you didn't interrupt him. Well, here I was. [[I wasn't there then.]] Last year, about 920 million kunas were paid for services for which no one alive can prove purpose. You, Mr Plenkovic, were familiar with all the actions of the Borg group by means of publicly available mail correspondence with the aim of your own non-accompanied wealth. Furthermore, the case of the proposed Minister Zdravko Maric, a man who deceived the Parliament dead and cold, claiming he had no contact with Agrokor, while documenting that it was pure fiction and untrue, as well as Mr. Maric's role in crediting Agrokor at around 50m euros at the time the CNB banned the financing of the concert. Let's remember the showcases of our own exemption when we vote. There's his role in financing Windmill Krs Padjene, 80m euros in our money, for a nearly failed project that was currently four years late. Furthermore, the role of Minister Ćorić in the same affair of Vetrokar Krs Padedene or Ćorić's affair National Park Krka. These are examples of open and bestial corruption resulting in poverty and social hopelessness. The result of the policy is that 54% of Croatian citizens did not go to elections, which means total mistrust in state institutions and mass emigration from Croatia. But unlike moving out of Yugoslavia when individuals left, they are now leaving the entire family. I was elected to this House to be a lawyer for every Croatian citizen and to fight corruption, against a deep state that has the foundations in Croatia in the intelligence services of the former Yugoslavia. This may be more said by your proposed Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, who, as far as I know, in the former state, as a National Defence Advisor, I believe has learned well how to control the media and social elites. Only a democratic and free society can provide citizens with prosperity and progress, and you and your Government are a guarantee of blockade and manipulation, and there is no progress or benefit for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1161	We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1162	Dear colleague Kristo. If you had all this information, I'm surprised why you didn't propose it to the State's Attorney's office to file a criminal report. I mean, you said you were a lawyer, you shouldn't be a HDZ lawyer. You should, if you have information about corruption, simply report it to the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1163	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1164	Our institutions are occupied, I don't speak for a year, two or nine or more decades. As for the counter-constitution, the 11th and 12th constituency that can't be spoken out loud enough, I have one more thing to tell you. The current, I mean, you actually know that. The current composition of the Constitutional Court is, by all means, counter-constitutionally elected and two cases are related to the current composition of the Constitutional Court in the European Court of Human Rights. So I don't know which institution anyone in the Republic of Croatia can turn to anymore. And now we're discussing, I'm going to repeat the anti-constitutional assembly actually and we're discussing a future government that's also anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1165	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dario Zurovec. You can't go in there, you can't go in there. Get down on the bench, but don't, get down on the bench, you can't, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure. And because business is defined, it's for clubs, you can have a microphone. [[/Intruder: Can't, why not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1166	Dear MPs and MPs, no problem, I'm used to being pushed aside especially by HDZ. I'm going to be very clear and very direct, my assessment of the entire program that is proposed today that it's nothing but a list of beautiful desires. In a crisis like this, and we are in a crisis, we still need to tell people the truth and not sell some stories that we are a strong economically sovereign Republic, principles of justice, equality, social solidarity, and not to say that we are now preparing young people for future affairs, we are not doing it, we are really not doing it. We're in the middle of an economic crisis. We have been cut off from the tourist season which is significantly participating in GDP. Not to mention that economic uncertainty doesn't just rule with us, it rules all over the world, and we can't deny all that. I'll do it again, we can't deny it. I see in all these promises nothing but waste. Those 22 billion do not serve to extend and deepen the defaults on my account, they primarily serve to make a single real and specific tax charge. And I'm also looking at this kind of crazy thing, the guy we're about to modernize health care with three billion kunas, and we have a debt of over 4.2 billion kunas. I mean, what are we talking about? What we're still going to put under the carpet, then we're going to be hoarding debts, and I'm just curious about how it goes. In the end, you should still be asked to lower income tax to a single rate of 10%, or to abolish the payment of taxes on investment profits and to primarily significantly reduce the burdens, that would be the right move. And on the other hand, let's face it, we're not a transparent state right now and we're not a rich country, we can't defend people to work, we can't defend people to earn any day this week. If we want to make money, if we want to be a rich country, we have to work hard all the time and not defend people any day to work. I also welcome the desire to be as transparent as my native Holy Sunday, I hope that this transparency will come to life even though I sincerely doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1167	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll refer to the area of public administration. We all agree that, as citizens, we meet almost daily with public administration authorities, whether they are public administration bodies, local and regional (regional) units of self-government or some legal persons with public authority such as Social Services Center. So, from the birth of a child, from enrolment in the womb of the born, to death, enrollment in the queen of the dead, we meet with officials of the public authorities. It is very difficult for an average citizen to cope with the impasses of bureaucracy, especially if he encounters officials who are not inclined to provide legal assistance or that legal aid is incomplete, so sometimes it is better that they have not received it. For decades we've been talking about public administration reform, but it seems like we keep moving forward and two steps back. They'd depolitize the public administration a little bit, but they're all made to actually choose assistants as directors, and then, after each shift, they usually create an internal structure towards similarity, not the competences of officials. Already, in most ministries, there is a slight panic among civil servants, not because they would get fired because no one will get fired by joining the ministries, but according to the new systemisation, they can deploy to a job with a lower coefficient. And of course, projects, including those financed from EU funds, are being put aside and are dealing with a little body formation and the schedule of officials for about 3 to 4 months, and again. These 22 billion euros, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic, are a guarantee of a rapid economic recovery and further even development of the country should be translated into acceptable projects. That's why we need competent, adequately-paid civil servants who won't make it to the private sector first because of the inadequate evaluation of their work by similar and rarely incompetent officials and officials. If we do not create administrative capacity to withdraw these EU funds for a free night in Brussels. As long as we are guided by the logic of the promotion of similar rather than competent, proactive and creative official who will be adequately paid, and those others punished for, at the wages of nelados, there is no us in the society of prosperous European states but at the beginning of the column. The modern public administration should be focused on users of services so that they can achieve this public service with as little red tape as possible. We must not ask citizens to go from office to office and collect various consent from public authorities to obtain a permit or a solution. This requires digital networking of public authorities through their offices and official records. Simplification and modernisation of administrative behaviour, as well as ensuring reliable and rapid support of public administration to citizens and business entities, are necessary through the implementation of the eGovernment project. Our goal must be to quickly implement a public administration without paper with the possibility of digital signature and stamping and submission of requests via e-Government, as well as to accept solutions online in the user box. Citizens as parties to the procedure must be able to monitor the state of their case file from request to the executive solution. The work of the public administration should be transparent and understandable to citizens. The employment of civil servants should be according to abilities, and not by party and other belongings, their salaries must be on the principle of equal pay for working equal value. An effective system of stimulating officials should be prescribed, the law on civil servants' salaries is born for years, it is time to see the light of day. With this merger of the Ministry of Administration and the Justice, there is a danger that the great brother or the Ministry of Justice as a far greater state body simply suck up the Ministry of Administration as a space black hole, and that the minister of the administration of large-scale obligations in the area of justice which is the cancer of this society is unable to deal with public administration reform unless it is Superman, although it seems to me that there is no such supernatural capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1169	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1170	Honorable MPs and MPs. The government programme presented today is called "Safe Croatia", with an explanation that in times of crisis, the state's forces are irreplaceable. That's right. But the sure state is made up of two elements, the first is that we have strong institutions, and the second is the role of opposition in democratic processes. I'll look back at those two elements. In the chapter of Strengthened Statehood, there is not a single word on strengthening institutions. When the Prime Minister was on his way out, which the potential future spoke about judicial reform, about strengthening the fight against corruption, especially in the area of prevention as if he spoke to the objectives of my political programme. But the problem was that these words were spoken by him, who in history will remain remembered for undermining institutions in the past term and euthanizing independent state bodies such as the Commission for Decision on conflict of interest, and nothing better had gone beyond the BOOK and the DORH. The second element is the role of opposition. You called the opposition today in this assembly as the one that speaks to mere demagogy. Well, there's no greater demagogues and empty stories than the program you've presented to us in it, and you haven't said anything of any importance at all. If you would like to accept, do you have the courage to accept the constructiveity of the opposition, I invite you to discuss the draft anti-corruption strategy that I have done in November and handed over to this Croatian Parliament. It consists of five chapters, the first chapter refers to full fiscal transparency, so your coalition partner from HSLS would not only tell you about the need to publish all payments and payments of units of local self-government. I ask that this level of transparency be introduced at the state level and that it binds all ministries and even bodies such as HBOR, all hospitals, all agencies, all bodies financed by public money. The second chapter is to strengthen the role of preventive bodies, to give strong powers to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, so the President of the Government would never happen again, but would not have thought of it, would not have dared to call the Commission to provide him with the necessary documentation to determine whether he was in conflict of interest when he went to Helsinki to simply respond to the Colloquial dictionary. If you want to solve problems in the judiciary, you cannot say that this will be resolved by strengthening the Judicial Academy or by energy restoration of judicial buildings. No, the problem of the judiciary stems from unresolved HDZ corruption or those who are very badly or wrongly solved, about Milan Bandic to your coalition partner at the local level not to speak. You spoke in this program and about better governance of state property, here's a simple solution, set up registers of all business relations with all bodies of state and other public authorities. It could be very difficult then that a number of girls' money into our partners, in any interesting connection with all those who bring you to power by their financial contribution. There was also a lot of talk about territorial reconstruction, about counties and about the need for them to be abolished or cut as a flow boiler through which party personnel are entrenched, very often fully sub-opaciated for the work they are given. And chapter 5 is the reform of electoral legislation, which includes a fair, fair and constitutional set of electoral units in which each citizen's vote is equally valid, the introduction of an electronic vote in elections and referendums. But I must say, if all this were to be carried out together, it would be very difficult for your political option to regain power by your parliamentary majority. It's a fact, it's true. But perhaps we could say that HDZ finally did something good for this country in 30 years. As I have said, the Corruption Prevention Strategy or at least its draft is already in this home since November of last year, put it on public debate, refer it to the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for which I joined in the regular procedure and applied. When you do, you will be able to say that you are ready and brave enough to accept an opposition that is not only critical but is concrete and constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1171	We have one replica of Honorable Representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1172	Your Honor. We certainly support these efforts that we have heard now articulated by the distinguished Ms. Dahlia, and I would only supplement that we should really do everything that has not been done so far that as an opposition and as a position, the new government, the future government revives that legal instrument for fighting corruption because it is the cancer of this society's wounds. We have the best legal instrument in the discovery, proof of all the tools for detecting the perpetrators of this type, but our system is immobilized that executive power does not make enough that in human, material and technical and any other sense, above all, politically independent, there are circumstances for experts, criminals, in charge of the repressive body to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1173	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1174	Thank you. Thank you. I was already in the introduction today in that free part of the talk about what our vision of Croatia is, and I mentioned some words of the type of artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, biotechnology, things that may not have been heard in this House so far, but what we find in this Government's program is some of the words that have been in place for 8 thousand years, which is irrigation. So the world has known irrigation for 8 thousand years, and one European state in the 21st century as one of the objectives of its government programme, therefore, states irrigation. There, just one little line to start with. Education and science, the foundation of every modern society, here in the government programme, you say education reform will continue. In the last term, education has become simply a coin for political trade. The Council is therefore not to continue with the reform of education as it was started in the previous term but to return it to that colossum of full curricular reform with a strategy of science and education adopted unanimously here in the Assembly, if it is necessary to refresh, if it is necessary to update and re-brand here into this body and ask for a consensus and then move forward with its implementation. That's, here's a proposal and advice for the new minister I really want the best. And the third word I wanted to mention, transparency. Some here mention it as one of the conditions of supporting this government, it is often mentioned in the programmes, it is repeated in government programmes, we will work on transparency at all levels, it was mentioned today, Split, they say, introduced transparency. You know that Split has been on the most transparent city list for several years. Why? Because the criterion for transparency so far has been to publish the city's budget in PDF format on websites. So it was a criterion for transparency and no wonder, is it, that a bunch of cities got that badge of the Institute of Finance, and transparency is not just that. Transparency isn't just a search engine you'll need to know what you're looking for to find some information. So, transparency from local level to all levels, as counterpart Oreshkovic said, is one of the conditions and starting point for the development of the fight against corruption. So, as we've said so far with our presentations, the party's name and last name, Smart and GLAS will not support this kind of program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1175	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Hrebac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1176	Dear Parliamentarians. Here, already several parliamentary deputies mention the word transparency. It is my pleasure, therefore, that transparency obviously took place in this High House and that we are all ready to support this very transparency. And here's my colleague, Grmoy, and we talk about transparency a lot, and there's Mrs. Grmoy. Ahmetovic, and I love it most when it's being talked about by those who have never been able to deliver it. I am the mayor of the first city in Croatia who did this, my colleague Zurovec was second, it is irrelevant in this consolidation of relations, but I am glad that it is also very important to you. I am aware, and I understand that you will be an opposition, such as the opposition in 2008 since the Smartly Existed Party. I would prefer that at some point in your existence you accept responsibility, enter some form of government, whether at local, state or other level and accept responsibility, change things. We accepted responsibility And we want to change things. [[Intruder: Time.]] And I hope you'll at least support that law to deliver transparency [[Intruder: Time.]] At least at the level... [[Intruder: Replication response...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1177	Dear representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1178	If I may, here's the answer. So, like I said, some of them used education as a political trade, and here, now they use transparency, too, is it? Just to remind you, therefore, I appreciate, as you know, a distinguished colleague, I appreciate absolutely everything you've been doing to bring this system into the city and I commend you, but at the same time, so you're involved in the government and you're responsible then and together with this government, which is Croatia at the bottom of Europe today. At the bottom of all the rankings in Europe, this is, therefore, the merit of HDZ rule over the past 30 years, and you have been involved in such a government. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1179	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the 9th meeting of the Croatian Assembly were three psychiatrists and I said then that the mental health of the nation was worrying. Today in the 10th Assembly meeting there are 4 psychiatrists and I welcome my colleague, Renati Sablak Dračevac, and I believe that we will work together on many health issues, regardless of the various political uniforms. Inside psychiatry, the notion of normal is much more flexible than the rest of medicine. Yesterday they asked me if a person with mental disorders could be politically active. I think sometimes they're so-called. healthy far more dangerous than those who have been diagnosed and treated, who are under medical supervision. Today I think of the idea of messianicism as an association but I will not evaluate the psychological profiles of colleagues and colleagues, but I will talk about the time of the crown crisis, the impact of the virus's coronary on mental health, so in January 2020. The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak of a new viral disease corona a public health threat of international importance. First decision of the Minister of Health, Professor Willia Berosa was the signing of a decision on the establishment of the Health Ministry crisis headquarters, the Republic of Croatia has information that we can be proud of, and I stress that we are comparing ourselves with EU Member States where aviation has been significantly higher. And no, it's not a set of random circumstances, it's a joint engagement of all interresor actors of the whole story, and especially people who work in the healthcare system not only of doctors, nurses, but of all health care workers whom I want to express a great thank you this time. I'll just mention, so inside the infectious disease clinic, no healthcare professional has been infected with the coronary virus, and that's not a coincidence. So these are the results, there's been a lot of so here we have and now here are some examples, they're asking different decisions, if they're using masks, if they're not serving masks, so I guess that's going to evaluate those who need to when this is all over. The issue of health outcomes to which is Prof. Vrkljan spoke today about something that should certainly be discussed in the announced health reform announced by Minister Beroš, the issue of drug consumption, so there will certainly be a need to amend the Law on Medicinal Products, but therefore this coronary virus has an impact on all the pores of society, on all the dimensions of health and mental health, so we have also shown a level of responsibility where all professional services from the very beginning have been involved with the establishment of non-patient, telepsychiatric care when physical contact was not possible, we have organised at the level of the Republic extrabolical care through the use of modern social applications, and in this way we have primarily helped people who have mental disorders but also those who have registered certain mental symptoms that needed advice not necessarily psychiatric but possibly oses of psychologists or other auxive state. We have many challenges ahead of us, many of which this government will face but what I want to point out and what will be my engagement and in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament is that the profession will be first and that politics will be in the service of the profession and not vice versa, and in that sense I believe that competent experts, especially the candidate for the Minister of Health, will certainly justify the trust that we will give him tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1181	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable fellow representative is a psychiatrist, and I am glad that he is watching us from this vision and would also like to say that this attitude about these famous masks and some other procedures is something that brings confusion between all of us and the Croatian people, Croatian citizens because we do not have standardised procedures. I know one of your colleagues said yesterday so I didn't react, that running the state was a normal learning on errors and that we post-festum would conclude we should wear masks or not. I think that masks should be worn and listened to epidemiologists but we don't have standardized procedures, and as far as I know, here's what KBC Dubrava can do today, what can the future former minister Beros check, also one operator got the coronary virus, we didn't have standard procedure, and now the operating halls are empty and people don't know what to do. It's unfortunately our reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1183	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1184	Dear Representative Škoro, I will remind you, therefore, that after adjusting to this new normal and Saturday and Sunday work clinics, say in KBC Dubrava, so it is not true that we are just focused on the coronary viral disease and as far as masks are concerned, we have all seen that the attitude on masks has changed and will change, at this point the situation is such, here we are in a closed area, there are relatively many and the recommendations are that we wear a mask. And now, if we like it, I certainly don't know if there are any MPs and MPs who are happy to have that mask and then also ask you to cover their noses because I've seen that they have quite a number of colleagues and colleagues who don't cover their noses, then they can be without a mask, but here we can discuss everything, but at this point, it's not a recommendation from an epidemiologist, so it's not a recommendation that we wear a mask in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1185	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coliq, you have well-absorbed that it is very important to make efforts and take care of the psychophysical health of the nation, I would like to underline and warn about what is happening in the trade sector, that various studies have been carried out that have shown that actually those workers who are employed and who work for 3 weeks without interruption, without one day of rest are more often suffering from psychophysical diseases and bone diseases, that they are exposed to constant stress and that this does not have a good effect on their health, if we know that most store employees are women who have started working from their 18 years of age and if they work in that rhythm continuously without a single day of rest, it certainly leaves an impact on their health. That's why I welcome what this government programme has been apostrophe to introduce a week off especially for shoppers because I think it's other than the segment that I was talking about as a civilization step, and in It's our tradition that it's always been a week off for employees. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1187	Answer the honourable representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1188	Dear fellow Petir, of course, that, apart from not knowing the disease itself as such, there are also social economic consequences of the coronary virus that then affect both the effect and the sense of general well-being because this uncertainty and fear can definitely produce in a certain group of people some symptoms, most often from a category of fear and anxiety. As far as our day off, we live in a country that is loved to say that the country that protects and defends Christian identity is so that I absolutely support that Sunday's work is free especially for those women who have 3,500 kuna salaries who have also suffered the burden of this crown crisis for the casino.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1189	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1190	Dear colleague, you have looked back on exactly one segment of what this government has really done in quality, and when that part of the assembly that doesn't want to accept that at the right time, at the right time and quality, has responded to what, this crisis with Covid is a sign of how much the Government has actually earned the trust that it has in the next term, and thus has shown how well it can take care of both the economy and the health and the whole society that we are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1191	Answer the honourable representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1192	Dear counterpart Peric, in addition to what you said and the election results on July 5th 2020, there were those who were troublesome and said that the National Headquarters was an extended arm, that it was in some way the political instrument of the government of the Republic of Croatia. There were renowned experts, regardless of whether members of the HDZ, some other political parties, were involved experts who were of Croatian origin from Singapore via Germany, who gave their advice. Of course, this was in some way, except for the expert opinion that certain political decisions should be made and should not be avoided. However, I am convinced, and this is also the result that in all things, even today as regards the National Staff, it has been dominant and it is a profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1193	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1194	Thank you. Kolega Celić, a past meeting of the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament, faced a series of challenges of economic Agrokor, 3 May, Uljanik, Đuro Đaković, Petrochemia, then a series of elementary disasters, floods in Karlovac, fires in Dalmatia, then a migrant crisis, and at the end of February there was a pandemic of the coronary virus, an earthquake in Zagreb, and with it the government achieved economic growth, salary growth, pensions, more than 100,000 new jobs, more than 100,000 unblocked, credit rating growth, etc. So with all the challenges with all the statistics we were in plus. At the end of February, a pandemic of the coronary virus appeared and already in April, according to the first surveys, 94% of citizens said that the government was a great match for the crisis, 80% for timely action. They shall take measures. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1195	Answer the honourable representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1196	Yes, a respected colleague, Strick, has been paid in healthcare in the past term by 22%, the problem of overtime is the problem that is currently being solved and there is an adequate response by the government. Also one of the reasons why the HDZ election result was so good is the fact that the government has been involved since the beginning in the preservation of jobs and within the private sector 5 billion kuna, 148,000 employees who received salaries during March, April and May thanks to the donations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are just some of the reasons why the situation is as it is. We can't be satisfied, I say there are new challenges ahead, we're adapting to a new normal, but I think crisis management is something that gave us this result. for which Andrej Plenkovic will again be Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1197	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic. Turn the microphone on, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1198	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed.../incomprehensible/... as I have said in one line I also chair the same in a representative body where it is, alone, part of the parliamentary majority, and my colleagues from the HDZ are part of the opposition. Regardless of that, both my colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ would like me to deliver the material discussed 45 minutes before the session of the County Assembly, what I really said would literally skin me alive. So it certainly is not, it is not a way of working either in this Croatian Parliament, but regardless of which we can always be constructive because because of this long debate I have arrived and read, so I will also look back on myself, the very programme that is very similar to what is, which the HDZ colleagues promised in their election promotion and for which they have received the trust, the trust of most, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been summed up by the electoral body exactly 16%, does not mean that we have received more. But what's there is. What concerns me, though, is that I'm worried that we're all here at this assembly talking about the issue of demographics. And I heard something from the former and most likely future prime minister, and that is very important to me, that the young population has left because of formula 2+3+2. If you don't know what it is, I'll interpret it, it's a definition of freedom of movement within the EU from the moment the Republic of Croatia became a 1.7 full member of the EU. The first two years nothing happens, so we have limited movement. Next three years. Some countries as well as our friends from Slovenia could put a moratorium about free movement when we talk about workers and then another 2.g. you have a transitional period with the fact that since 1.7 this year we have a complete freedom of movement. What does that mean? That one citizen of the Republic of Croatia can quote in his Labour Treaty from Austria, Italy, Slovenia, his Croatian address. It is also us that even beyond some political reasons emigration in the system of values about morality and general atmosphere that the government in the Republic of Croatia still argues that it is the material side, which is, and the conditions of working on the material side, the one that has offered our citizens to emigrate, from Austria, Italy, and so on. Because of the work I've been doing, I've also warned, and, because that's the time and it's been, so the thing starts from 1.7.2015 and Minister Oreshkovic in this government and in all these next ones, especially through HZMO. Namely, if we make one very simple calculation and look at what minimum salaries are in our neighbouring countries, let us take a table of the UN purchasing power then we will see that what is a 900 EUR minimumer in Italy, 1250 EUR minimum wage in Austria, equivalent to 600 EUR in the Republic of Croatia, 600 EUR net salary, 6 x 7.5 we come to an account exceeding 4000 kuna. And that's why I'm so glad that your government's program also includes the HDZ programme to cost $4250, great, great. With the programme saying it is one of the top 10 priorities under point 3 and the government's programme is within its mandate. I'm worried because it's too late. I'll just remind you that the SDP therefore proposed a minimum of 4,000 kuna, but a year ago. What saves us all together is that people stopped leaving, stopped leaving the Republic of Croatia because the pandemic situation out there might be worse than in the Republic of Croatia. I really appeal not to be there until the end of the term of office because that's what it is. The second thing, speaking of pandemics, in this program we don't see any pandemic solutions Or what's, what's a new paradigm, what's our future [[Intruder: Time]] What's he doing for us, no, and that's first of all, if you'll let me do one, one short thing. [[Intruder: Time]] Something the government can do without this parliament [[/Intruder: What?]] If we're caught by another wave of pandemics, we have volunteers from civil protection who have a daily of 50 kunas smaller than professionals. [[Let's finish this.]] Due to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, because of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that regulates that part, and professionals are related to the collective contract... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1199	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1200	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Your Honor, today we have heard the call of the majority in the assembly of a constructive debate, and we have heard it from the prime minister. Since the prime minister also wants this positive cooperation, I believe that I will bring his attention, as well as the attention of all of you some of the suggestions and suggestions. I will not criticise your work, I will not criticise the government's work, but I would like to draw your attention to some illogical or possible oversight or failures in your plan and in the law. In your program, you mention better management of state property, and you also mention that you will place a centre of shared services in full function, and that by the end of the term of office, together with state-owned companies, you will establish a network of secure and accessible data centres. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that this mentioned CDU recently bought a data centre, of course that the centre was privately owned and that it paid EUR 10 million for the centre, approximately. That would not be a problem if there were no more data centres in the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are staring empty even though they are ready to accept the equipment. I note that these are top-level security data centres with physical and technical protection and all other conditions necessary for data centres, and in some it is also an apartmentisation which means that they can accept more classified systems. I believe that this purchase is a major failure by the Ministry of Property Management The task of the ministry should be to actually manage state property and to place that property in full function and not to intervene in the sale of state property. The programme also states that the effectiveness of the state administration body will be increased. This is an excellent goal, but I remind you that by increasing the number of digital services for citizens and legal persons, it will not increase the efficiency of the state administration body. In order to increase the efficiency of the state administration body, it is necessary to optimise and inform business processes in state administration bodies. While the digitisation of documents or the introduction of a digital signature makes sense if used in an informed business process, if documents are stored in a document management system and used as such and placed on the market. A prerequisite for optimisation is the existence of a service register available, a register of applications used in state administration bodies and a database of data contained in databases. The problem is that in the last term, 4 years have been missed in which these registers have not been established and if they have been working on them, the results are very modest. Also, one of the preconditions is the definition of standards to be respected, to be respected in the development or purchase of applications. The document was done but the results were even more modest. These are tasks that need to be done urgently if we want to speed up the work on the efficiency and transparency of the work of the state administration body. To a large extent, the efficiency of the state administration body would be increased by the introduction of an electronic exchange of letters between the authorities of the state administration. I note that there is already a developed model for this, that a complete pilot project has been created and that the application of this model saves around 200 million kuna per year from the budget only on the payment of the recommended shipment and other shipments. So 200 million kunas a year. The proposal for a Law on the establishment of a detour body of a state administration states that the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice are to be joined. Therefore, a ministry that needs initial efficiency and the quality of public administration in providing and exercising the rights of citizens and legal entities in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and the Ministry of Justice to ensure conditions of quality of functioning and further construction of the justice system of the Republic of Croatia is merged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1201	Time. Next individual debate, a respected representative named Brumnic. I'm gonna need a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1202	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected future ministers, I am sorry that I cannot welcome the candidate for prime minister there, but there he is. What about these two days? These two days are in fact the crown of a democratic process called the elections in which those who have won, show how they will relate to the society for which they have been given the mandate to manage it. Yesterday we saw a single I would call it a managerial approach to the state administration where the one who lied, and I believe it's a candidate for prime minister, tried to avoid conflicts. When I say try to avoid conflicts then it would explain a little bit in fact to hide conflicts that occur in a system like this. protection of the environment and the economy. Simply hide it in one ministry, that one minister decides on it and then he doesn't see it out and finds out what's the real problem of a particular project. And then today we were actually witnessing that we were no longer on that managerial approach because that key indicator of some kind of government's management work should be the objectives of a government that should somehow be quantified. Here, from the quantified targets except for the salary of £4250 to the end of the term, there's nothing. Why isn't there anything? Because probably this government because it doesn't know where it's going, then every time it's good, then it's a pamphlet that she wrote like the Institute of Immunology in the city of Zagreb that's been standing for four years and hasn't moved. Today we didn't even get an answer when it would move. A hospital in Blato that was only the will or desire of a former minister to hide what is happening on Srebrenica or when they say they will invest in water buildings in the Republic of Croatia, then ask themselves whose money will be invested. Instead of investing in European money, they will invest citizens' money through concessions. Why am I saying they're gonna invest citizens' money through concessions? Because when they had the opportunity to set up a system with the city of Zagreb so that in the city of Zagreb the third degree of purification is built in accordance with the law passed by this Croatian Parliament and the former government, they are then looking for ways to bypass it. And the final question to be asked which premiums in his opening speech did he not say a word, the whole concept rests on 20 and some billion euros that we are going to get from the EU, we will get nothing but which in some way we will be able to use from the EU is the issue of the price of this money, or what are we obliged to do to get that money or use it? Here I won't last any longer, I say, the only one who could give answers to these questions is actually a candidate for the Prime Minister who isn't here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1203	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1204	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Brumnic, in the opening presentation of the prime minister's candidate, Mr Plenkovic, mentioned two things. Immunologically and a new hospital in Blato. He didn't say anything about these other things, and he didn't put any emphasis on any other projects, I'm sure there are other projects. In the past 3 years in the Croatian Parliament, there has been one solid coalition between Mr Bandic and HDZ, which is the same solid coalition in the city of Zagreb, and for 3 years, the commission has not been created or named, you and I well know that in the budget of the city of Zagreb, the item that was intended once for the Immunological and New Hospital in Blat has been untraceable, and after 3 years of working together, Mr Bandic and Mr Plenkovic, nothing has happened and we should now believe that in these 4 years the magic stick and everything will come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1205	The answer of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1206	My colleagues Mrak-Taritaš, I cannot agree with you, together with me in the City Assembly of Zagreb, were witnesses of the work of the mayor of Zagreb, M. Bandić, with the support of HDZ and Mr. Plenkovic, who runs this HDZ. If nothing had been done about the Immunological Institute, it was clear to everyone when the decision was made in the city of Zagreb on the Immunological Institute, that it was a clean PR, and as far as the hospital in Blato is concerned, there has been a health minister sitting here since he left the last health minister, as far as I know, never once has he taken a word on the subject, nor has he once said what he or she sees in the realisation of this project and what he thinks about what's going on in the hospital of Srebrnjak in the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1207	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1208	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, and I would like to welcome all my fellow MPs and MPs who are still here. We're probably a little bit exhausted, and we can only imagine what it looks like in Brussels when they're negotiating up to 5.6 a.m. on big issues like the seven-year budget. This way of exhausting people who eventually simply surrender and to reach a compromise is certainly not the best way to lead our continent but about that after. I am sorry that the prime minister is old and since he is not here, he has not answered my earlier question about why this government continues to refuse to allow our citizens to vote electronically or by letter, it is not true that this is not a common practice in Europe, there are examples of where this is being carried out, and that is in countries that do not have as much emigration as we do and unfortunately emigration continues to grow. I have studied this programme a little bit, and what is important is that we judge according to actions rather than declarative desires, and in this document it is said that connecting Croatia with our people abroad is a strategic issue and unfortunately this is not done. But the whole document sees one logic that actually the government needs to do even more. I see the main problem in Croatia that actually the government is already working too much and should be less. For example, Croatia is implementing green policy. Today, the face of this green policy is former official Josepha Rimac. So unfortunately, I have to say, unfortunately, the money that is approved to encourage new sources of energy ends up in a customerelic way in the pockets of individuals who are well networked with political structures and then the question is what is the benefit for all of us. I'm very little, I'm afraid. The government often boasted about the concept of stability on its way out. Unfortunately, this in practice means stagnation, a serious stagnation especially economic. In my VI. I made an effort to get to know her well, go around her whole, she's already half-empty. So, in addition to EU membership, a question is raised which benefits ordinary people from it? Perhaps it is a good project for certain officials, to find good places outside Croatia in certain institutions, but for those of us who stay here, there are fewer and fewer of us. So stagnation is this reality, not stability, actually stability is no virtue, it becomes a growing problem with us. It mentions the promise that agricultural production should, for example, increase by 30%, but in the past term production is only falling, so I see no reason to believe that this can be changed given the experience we unfortunately have. So in the end I would say that some of you fellow future ministers I have met during the short-term Oreshkovic government, we have cooperated, I believe you have good intentions, but this programme does not pour trust, you have not realized that in the Republic of Croatia you need less countries, less interference in the lives of our people. Unfortunately, the behaviour of a state inspection may most clearly indicate that during these extraordinary measures some of the guests in Zagreb were literally harassed. So I have to deny the support of the new future government, I wish it were different, but here it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1209	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This government programme is based on one concept, the concept of new sovereignty as a concept which, as stated in the programme, should represent a new paradigm of development of the Republic of Croatia. If we were to recapture it in some formula, we would say that it wants to strengthen the statehood, sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, so that we are stronger in Europe, not against Europe. And now some might say how it combines sovereignty with one fit and European integration with the other. And this concept called new sovereignty can indeed be said is new because it includes it in the new conditions of the 21st century, but logic is actually the same as that of 30 May '90s when President Tudjman gave an inaugural speech here in the assembly, when he had just set his way towards independence, while at the same time towards European integrations, or when he wrote in the original foundations of the constitution that exactly our statehood is based on changing the international order in Europe, so in rejecting communist regimes, on the fall of the Berlin Wall and on the integration of Europe and that very integration, these integration processes have allowed peoples such as Croatia to emancipate themselves to get their independent state. Today, the international order is changing again, then Europe. We've debated a lot today about these billions, 22 billion that have been agreed for the Republic of Croatia at the European Council session, and it's really important and more and more everyone has praised this result, and I think we need to look at a wider picture. The key change is that the European Commission has now received the mandate to be in charge on behalf of the EU, so that the strongest economy on the continent, for example, Germany. the economy that can be owed under the best conditions. It was a long debate, Germany resisted for a long time because it did not want to share its wealth with others in the EU. But it was inevitable, and this crisis with the coronary virus has only accelerated those processes. So much, in these and such new circumstances, this new sovereignty means to meet these new conditions and then to ensure the best positions for the Republic of Croatia. The conditions for which these funds will also be used because they are not only important for the amount but also for the substance, address a lot of those issues that you colleagues and colleagues have asked today and about the reform and that, as my colleague Bartulica said, less countries, less control of the state, so continue with that transition of state control from society to the market, it is precisely one of the basic foundations of liberal democracy and the free market and such reforms, is that what we are talking about when we talk about structural reforms, these are the reforms that are driven precisely by European policies and which will then be the criteria for the use of these funds. I believe so much that precisely in this direction of new sovereignty, a new development paradigm that will succeed in completing the transition that we started with the fall of the communist regime to strengthen our statehood that we acquired in the '90s and that we want to strengthen today by strengthening the economic foundations of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian state, Croatian society to come out stronger after this crisis, this crisis is indeed global, we did not challenge it, it has a negative impact on us. However, just as the results have been achieved at the European Council session, they trust that we will come out of this crisis and that this plan presented today in this HS and that we will truly support power and be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1211	Thank you very much. There are quite a number of replicas in your presentation, so let's start with the order, the first respected representative of Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1212	Here's the esteemed esteemed representative, Mr. Stier, I, with great sadness and disappointment, must conclude that again, you're cheating on us, it's no paradigm, it's no pattern of new sovereignty, it's a con we've been witnessing all these years. The globalist system that you bowed to more than 10 years ago destroyed this society, destroyed this society and in terms of the very foundations of food production, from the destruction of farmers, from cattle farmers, from our agriculture, from the complete uncertainty of our state borders, the Marrakech Agreement speaks to its own, from the impact on the family, from the Istanbul Convention, therefore dear friends and gentlemen the distinguished representatives do not listen to these frauds, we turn to the sovereignism of true, and not to these floscules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1213	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1214	To read President Tudjman's speech again on May 30th 90th. I think it would be good for all of us because this is exactly where we are headed for Croatia's independence, as we are an independent state, and it's routed, not to the opposite of Europe, but to take our place in Europe. It was done by other nations that profited from it. Today you can see even after the EU Council sessions here that the countries of Central Europe, including Croatia, were satisfied with these results because they have actually strengthened their position, and thus their sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1215	The next replica is respected MPs... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1216	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, Mr. Stier, I'm just as confused, so I'd like to ask you to explain your sovereignty to us one more time. So first of all, I'd say it appears within the borders of a state, yes, you're right. The late President Tudjman has indeed set the frameworks, however, what have we done 30 years later? I don't know if there's a neighboring country with which we don't have a problem with borders, we mention, if anything else, here, Vukovar Adu, we isolate her as one serious problem, we haven't solved it, 30 years after the isolation. Well, the problems with Slovenia, every day you hear more and more about it, so, let's remember our fishermen and the inability to sail and fish, and I also have to mention food production, we soon become completely dependent on the most important, importing most important foods, which are primarily milk, meat and bread. And also, as it can be a sovereign state for young people to leave daily, to go to entire families, to work on the family economies exactly as they worked in Croatia before they left. What kind of sovereignty is that? I'm a layman, I don't understand, explain. [[Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1217	... Stiera.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Well, it is precisely by respecting European norms and European law, as you have seen, that the EU court has given Croatia and given Croatia the right and that is what our legal team has very well explained, therefore, these disputes, as you can see, are being settled successfully. And what would be the alternative you're proposing? Head east towards non-EU countries and then tell me if they are better arranged, whether the standard of citizens there is better, whether the rule of law there is stronger and whether the position of those countries is then stronger than those of Croatia today or those of the countries of Central Europe that are all EU members and want to continue to be EU members, and which they are very proud of having their own national states.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1219	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Skora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Stier. I like the syntagma of new sovereignty, meaning new sovereignty, it's a small deduction of coin words new, probably something that's never been seen before. And sovereignty, which should mean, the people, the territory, and the government. Our Constitution states that the government comes from the people and belongs to the people, and I only hope that new sovereignty means that more in the next government's council will listen to this very people, and one of the convenient situations when that people can listen is the referendum. Unfortunately, in the past government's meeting, the same referendum has been disputed several times. We have proposed, we will continue to propose that it be called for the introduction of the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1221	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1222	Thank you very much, dear fellow Skoro. It was just the Croatian citizens, Croatian people, that the Croatian people went to a referendum on EU accession, so in the agreement, to an accession agreement, where, among other things, the provisions on the adoption of the euro and supported exactly that decision, which was then confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I absolutely agree that we must respect our Constitution and we must respect the will of Croatian citizens who have already made that decision to make Croatia a member of the EU and accept the euro within what is an EU member.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1223	The next replica is the respected MPs, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, I am very glad that you have actually returned to the scale of things in your presentation, which is a matter of values on which the EU rests. Of course, billions of which we are constantly talking about are extremely important projects and reforms, but in fact, if we remember the establishment of the EU and its founders, Schuman and Adenauer and De Gaspery and others, they were engaged believers, who were besides the Union, prosperity and economic development, wanted and a union of values. In that sense, when we talk about tolerance, non-discrimination, solidarity and human dignity that are at the heart of the EU, I want to look at Croatia in this context, which is also a heritage of the same value and that through our activities we here, as parliamentary representatives and the future government are just protecting these values because it will not mean anything to us billions or money if we lose values and what we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1225	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1226	Thank you. You're right, classmates. Indeed, it was the Christian Democrats who triggered the idea of Europe. It is at the very heart of democratic politics. So, to be a strong national state, strong peoples in Europe, but not in conflict with one another, but in cooperation, and it is actually one concept of Christian democracy that both Adenauer and De Gasperi and Schuman have carried out in action. Those who were on the side of the logic of the conflict, of course opposed it, opposed it. Those who were against the rule of law opposed it. And those who were against freedom, whether, because they were extremely left or extremely right, but opposed to one system of freedom, they were against such a concept. But the Christian democracy defended him, defended him today, and I believe that this Croatian government must work on these foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1227	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1228	Thank you very much. The EU motto is... He's already on the line, so please respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU motto is “Europe united in diversity” and it was interesting to listen to fellow Bartholic and you Bartholic, who describes the night how the Council of Europe is chaired and you who defend new borrowings. I'm really trying to figure it out, so why don't you tell us what's new sovereignty? We are today full of neology, new borrowing, new normal. Is new sovereignty a new borrowing? The only thing you said about the three AAs is that Croatia can be better in debt. If it's good there, why Brexit fellow Stier? And yet another, the crisis is global, but it's our fault that we didn't develop industry according to smart specialization. There are five based limits in which Croatia must invest, so please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1229	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1230	Thank you, buddy. I must admit that it's for me when you were talking about the new normal, new things that it's a new SDP position to be Eurosceptics now and to get you out of the EU as the UK. It's a new policy for me. Well, you're probably still looking after these choices, so maybe you want to go that way. I believe that as far as my exposure is concerned, it was clear that Europe was going this way that the strongest economies in Europe, including the German economy, instead of having the benefit of this only has that Member State, are being put at its disposal now and other countries, especially Central European countries that have not yet reached that same level of development as Western Europe. And that's the key to the new decisions of the European Council, and I think that's good, I think that's actually making our positions stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1231	The next is the replica of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1232	...that you in your debate tried to sort of explain what I asked the question and thought that only the Prime Minister could answer it, what conditions Europe has put before us to get these 20 billion. I must admit, I am extremely sorry that the prime minister, or future prime minister, did not explain to the Croatian citizens what you tried to sort of explain here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1233	Your Honor, Mr. Stier. Please, we can concentrate a little bit. I know it's late, but let's bring this discussion to an end so let's let a fellow Stier say his own. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, so the criteria for investing in the economy, in infrastructure, in modernising the railways that we were talking about today, of course it insists on values such as the rule of law, I think these are exactly the criteria that we want our country and our society to be stronger, be more free, be more prosperous. And I suppose you can support that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1235	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1236	Thank you. If we start from a well-known policy that the world is constantly integrated, it is nationally individualized, then it is clear that this new sovereignty means to adapt only to new circumstances and opportunities because it used to mean being sovereign and having tanks at the border, and today it gets on our nerves if someone at the border stops us. Therefore, we should remind ourselves that they have disputed the recognition of Croatia in the 1990s as the world integrates, we want to disintegrate. In other words, fear or ignorance or not knowing these sovereign relations is actually one disheartened by the challenges facing us in the modern world, or the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1237	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1238	Thank you. Dear fellow Tudjman. Indeed, this new sovereignty is new to being applied in the new circumstances of the 21st century under new conditions in international relations, but logic is the same as President Tudjman had in May 30, '90. when he delivered this inaugural speech in this Croatian Parliament, which had never put the idea of the Croatian state against the ideas of European integration, but both, as well as how European integrations enabled the emancipation of Croatian people and the creation of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1239	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1240	As far as sovereignty is concerned, I would only want to go through two points of economics, so during the crown it was actually best to see how unsovered we are economically. Just remember that Kaufland and Interspar worked during the crown, and let's say Trešnjevaci plac or Dolac where the products of our Croatian grandmothers and maids were sold we were simply banned. Two, we have commercial banks where billions and billions of euros in profits end up in Milan, Graz and Vienna, and then Mr Maric goes to the international debt market and the same profits increased for a certain interest he returns to Croatia. Perhaps we in sovereignism in the new EU have just shown how well to be in charge. And three, the migrants, so during the crown, we had to walk from municipalities to cities with documents in the 7th election unit of migrants without any documents for the last three years. I don't know what sovereignty we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1241	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1242	So you can list some other problems facing both the Croatian state and the Croatian economy, but what we have to put into perspective today is that EU membership actually allows us to be more successful in dealing with this if we were outside the EU, these same problems would only be much worse. If you do not believe me, you will only go across the border to the east and you will see how countries that are not in the EU, which are in Southeast Europe, and the same problems that you have highlighted have, but much more, much deeper and much more difficult to deal with. Therefore, I think that EU membership of course does not solve everything, we must do our homework, but they give you one tool needed to be more successful so that you can strengthen the position of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1243	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, so I want to say something about the proposed Government, the proposed Government Programme 2020 – 2024, says an old saying that where the head of the village is good that the village is quiet and I think that we can gather around such a saying in terms of talking about it and in the time that it lasted, it is four years that have passed and during the election campaign and in this time these last 2 days when it is about that chief and most discussed. Because in this election campaign, a lot of them were offered to be there right now, to be the chiefs who would provide something regardless of the criticism that the state was wrong, that there was nothing good in it, that the register was empty, everyone was offering to lead it no matter what I said to all the problems. And it's all and politically legitimate and of course it's part of the democracy that we live in. However, the most trust of all who offered has just been given to Andrej Plenkovic. I think people looked at it and saw what's been going on for 4 years, that they saw in it that they wanted to achieve their goals, that they wanted peace, that they wanted security, that they wanted prosperity, development, and probably continuity, and that's why the number of votes was respectable. I don't think they've even been able to assess those past four years when he ran this government that ends today. I think it was a few moments around which they were devoting themselves. They could only do it one day. They did it 5.7. They went very clearly to the elections, they said we want to offer you the most votes, we want you to be the ones to form the next government. And indeed here are only 18 days from the election we have the opportunity today to declare the new government to be led by Andrej Plenkovic and who will propose that. He proposed to the parliamentary representatives or to the Croatian people of his ministers. This schedule today, knowing what we've been through over the past few years, and I think I've been here a long time, was good. I think that the MPs have indeed shown all the luxury they possess and that in the next four years we will really be present, in my opinion, better debates and better quality parliamentary assembly. I think that in and out of all the differences shared by us still in Andrej Plenkovic recognized a man who could offer what I said. I think he's an inclusive man, a leader, a politician who can listen, and I think he can talk to everyone, and he can talk to us in the Croatian Parliament, and he does that very often. What did he offer as a prime minister? He offered a government in which he would continue his 13 ministers' work in slightly different complex ministries. He offered 3 new ministers, i.e. 2 ministers and 1 minister and offered one vice-president from the ranks of national minorities. I think we agreed with this today that the team is good and that this government is able to show its abilities in the next four years. He says one saying that if you don't start, you won't even finish. This very programme we have offered is a kind of start for some new projects, but also for the beginning or perhaps for the completion of many projects that are some continuity and previous governments. Surely that bridge, the Peljek bridge we started we want to end in this term. And I think we're gonna end it as a good, big infrastructure project. Many projects will begin. So I'm a little surprised by this debate that didn't look at the good cause, to the good goals that are divided into five chapters, a total of 58 of which are later explained in a slightly more extensive material. Because I don't know who would have anything to do with creating 100,000 new jobs, not knowing the average salary is 7,600 kuna, to be minimal to 4,250 kuna. What do we have against providing 130,000 kuna for every young man who wants to get a job or against subsidies that we want to solve for 20,000 residential young families? Indeed, these goals are many, and much can be discussed about them. That is why the burden may remain on those who are against this government where we will offer laws that will address these measures, and then they will say it is good but unfortunately we will not raise our hands as they did in the previous term. That's why we're going to do it ourselves, and I think we've shown that we can do it in the previous term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1245	Thank you. We've got replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1246	Dear fellow Boric, are you the new sovereign?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1247	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1248	As far as sovereignty is concerned, we are talking about modern sovereignty because what was meant to be sovereign was created in 1990. So these stories of yours and keep on going, and I believe that the citizens will say about it in the next four years what they think, as they said in this next one. the previous period, meaning 5.7. everything was more or less clear. We know what the goals were, what the chiefs were offering, I'm sorry, here you may have had your legitimate goals, but there's almost nothing left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1249	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1250	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear Representative Boric. Here, I liked this statement of yours, "The head is good, and the village is quiet," so here, I would really ask if you have time, here, tomorrow we do not work, to go with me to a Slavonic, character or Zagorje village, and to explain to them that they are calm, I would really ask you to come and explain to them and that everything is good and that everything is remarkable in the country, as you claim. As far as your new sovereignty is concerned, I would just like to ask, have you ever established an old one, while you were selling banks, natural resources, giving foreigners, driving young people to other countries, and making this Croatia an addict on other people's money, so I don't think it has anything to do with old people, and at least with new sovereignty, so please think carefully about what you're going to say and don't take the village in your mouth without need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1251	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1252	Thank you very much, fellow Dretar. If you don't know, I'm the head of a small municipality that has 1,000 inhabitants, it would be called a village. However, we are a tourist destination and I know very well what it looks like. So today we have 7,000 tourists in a place that has 1,000 inhabitants, and that makes me happy. We're about 80% almost full of what we had last year. I know how many of these people work and I know exactly what they need. So these stories just don't have a way there. You can look at what you got and those stories don't make them too happy. Who is cheerful, who is not, in every village there is joy and of course that saying was not in that direction but in something else entirely. If you wanted to understand, and you're a man of entertainment and I believe you understood that well, but good. You need to say something that was stronger than you, and you wanted to say it, and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1253	Next... He doesn't have a colleague. Please, I recommend all new representatives, which is why you have received the Rules of Procedure, please read the Rules of Procedure, please. The next replica is the esteemed MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1254	Dear colleague Boric. You always by the same, there is no one in this assembly against 60 and some of the goals that this government has defined in its programme, but MPs rightly express the skepticism in such a way that it is a list of beautiful desires. And that goes for the fact that just four years ago in this same place, representing the government's programme, you have defined as much as 85 goals, or promises, of which 28 you have violated, only 22 you have fulfilled, 15 you have partially fulfilled, and 20 you have started. And what you did in the first half of your term, it ate your crown. So, it's the invoices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1255	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1256	Thank you very much, colleague Voter. I'm sure there'll be time for us to have a nice conversation like this in this future time. I hope it wasn't those papers from your former president who was spinning on television, which, of course, he was using on some other shows and saying what he noticed was wrong. However, there were many goals that were achieved, and they were not promised, but they were or had to be solved. So, no matter how much you see this as a wish list, it's up to us to show that we know how to do it. That's what I've been saying to the entire past term, that it's our job to deliver the bill to the citizens. I remember your 12 terms of advantage a few days before the elections turned into a 25-term minus. So you lost 37 seats per colleague Ostojić in only 2, 3 days, until Mr Matic dismembered it and said whoever paid the poll just got so many mandates. So now you have a chance to choose a candidate who speaks we won't criticise, we'll offer solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1257	The next debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1258	Good evening, good evening, everyone. I apologize immediately at the beginning, in my debate I will step away from the new and old sovereignty. I do not dispute anyone's right to have an ideology he believes or develops, but personally I do not think any of the young people will stay in Croatia because of this debate or return to Croatia because of this debate, as I also think no one will stay or return to Croatia because we will read the epics about Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, for which people have chosen us. Although this way I congratulate the Prime Minister and all his associates and associates on the results achieved. I am glad that we have heard a brief lesson from Europeanism, I guess that means that the colleague who told us that finally clears his views on the Istanbul Convention because as I recall, the Istanbul Convention was a huge rock of interference in its understanding of both the HDZ and the then government and the EU. What I would like to say in my debate is that, despite the great delay, we have received one bettrist office, an article that when we know we are entering an economic crisis caused by the crown, an article that, when we know we are going to get, in some way 22 billion euros, and we know that the EU is not giving away money but expects clear tables with measurable objectives, with measurable periods and something we will have to do for the back, unless we are now the main mantra that over the next 4 years we are asking Brussels to do so because they have given us 22 billion euros. That's where I'd like to say I expected more numbers. More what will be done in what period and how it will be done. Today we are accused of not being prepared to conduct a constructive debate, I would personally like a constructive debate on tax reform in the Republic of Croatia where we will finally have a finance minister and here I mean all finance ministers whose tax reform will not move from units of local and regional self-government because it is always our main mantra to start from income tax that is not actually the income of the state. Today we have a tax reform where we will get more parliamentary representatives again, and less will get our cashiers in the Parliament, our cookbook in the Parliament. What I'm also interested in, whether through these tax reforms we can finally clear out, I apologize, but it has fallen, to clarify the reform of our territorial self-government because we have to admit that we're much easier to discuss how we're going to change the territorial structure of the local and regional self-government units than how we're going to change the concept of government. It's already been released in the media as much as it's going to sting on local self-government units, I'd be interested in how much it's going to sting on government agencies, ministries and anything else that makes it a national policy component like we had today heard about going into transparency at the level of local and regional self-government, and that's commendable, but I haven't heard that in this way of transparency we go when we talk about government. I would also like to know what our view is and the reform of the judiciary, whether it will really only come to the energy restoration of the building or we will finally have a judiciary that will not be feared by investors, which will not be feared by the party in the process, but in which it will be impossible for the fugitives to escape to Medjugorje the night before the verdict. I don't dispute anyone's right to be a believer or an infidel, but I don't think Our Lady has made it across the border into Medjugorje. I would also like to know how we're going to get to 55%, we can talk about it in front of Koprivnica, we're at 52% now, when we're talking about waste management, and we know that we have Mariščina, we know that we have Kastijun and in my north we have a Piškornica which is the supposed strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that no one is talking about anymore. And that key reason why I can't support this government is north. The north is mentioned in this government's programme very likely because two mini-strategies of the center for the north have entered that ruling majority that they have asked to be mentioned somewhere north. I have not seen any project of Koprivnica-Krysjevnica County, I have not seen any project of the Međimurje County, and I would like to know since the north creates with its strong economy where the fast road to Koprivnica and Đurđevec, when the University of North by the head of students will get the same as other public universities in the Republic of Croatia, which the Government plans to do with a Cookies that becomes an ecological bomb. I said why I'm not ready to support the government, but despite everything, I wish you a lot of success in your work, and I hope that most of you who are thin are still going to get out longer than those before, that you won't need chips because what Col. Skoro said wouldn't be nice to watch that Swedish table again. But because of the crown, the Swedish table was banned because we know that the crisis headquarters still adapted some measures to the needs of the government, when the crisis headquarters said that a Swedish table would be allowed then it would probably need something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1259	Thank you. We also have a few replicas for you, the first respected representative of Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1260	... the same document. You say there are no figures, so let's say, 100,000 new jobs that we have said we will provide in the next four years, 110 000 we have secured them in this mandate, the average salary of the prime minister has made clear on 7.600 kuna, minimally on 4.250 kuna, 3 million kuna for healthcare, we know that we have provided a billion 700 for funds already in this perspective, 20,000 apartments for young people, 2 billion kuna for the project "Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina", 2 billion kuna for steam Croatia where we will introduce a steam laboratory in all schools, 200 new kindergartens and here Minister Mirganić and after Minister Bedeković introduced the extended work of kindergartens, 100 schools where we will introduce a daily stay so that the programme of numbers is full of wonders that you have not carefully read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1261	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1262	It took me 15 minutes to read it. When you talk about education to me from the corner of Koprivnica it looks like a bad joke because we had an agreement with the government of the Republic of Croatia that we would build schools and halls together, we ended up in court and now we have the first judicial verdict against the same government of the Republic of Croatia, it is worth safe and responsible country leadership. When we talk about these apartments and everything you've counted on, I just said I was curious about what the deadline, what the measures are, how much it's going to cost and where it's going to come from. It looks very betristic on paper, but when we switch to practice, then we see that when we shake a little harder in Zagreb that half the hospital is falling apart, and we haven't even come up with debts to large-scale drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1263	The next is a replica of the respected representative and vice president of this House of Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As counterpart Jaksic said very nicely, new sovereignty may mean new transparency, so it may be a definition of helping fellow Stier who in his formative phase went through something that was absolutely common when he looked back on the idea of possible support for Brexit. So it is crucial that colleagues from the government say not only numbers but carriers and deadlines, you have made a very good point. I would ask you, and now I call on my colleague Butkovic, he went outside, a colleague of Aladrovic he is here to finally visit Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, Bjelovarska-Zupanija and finish something they have promised for ten years. They have in stock of the project, they have in the catalog investments, and it's just necessary to do that. Don't ignore those two counties if there's Mayor Bys, is there a mayor... it's simply not fair. Let's be united in our diversity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1265	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1266	We absolutely agree and what I really want to believe is that we're not going to share on the basis of politics, that we're going to have equal status as municipalities, cities and counties. And just a short burst on my colleague Pavić, I ran away with these great-looking programs for Lika, Zagorje and Slavonia, but I'd like to see the results after the official census that brought it to me and what it took. I'm afraid it'll be devastating.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1267	The next is the replica of respected MPs Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1268	Dear colleague Jaksic, I must say I fully agree with you. I want to believe that the government will act in the interest of all Croatian citizens in this term. In this context, it is important to develop our entire country evenly, every end of it that has its potential. I want to believe that the government will have equal status towards each Croatian county regardless of the political preferences of the head of the county and the political majority in their representative bodies. I therefore remind you that there are a number of open issues between the Government and the Međimurje County that need to be addressed or at least take a clear position, but also respect the electoral will of the citizens of the Croatian North, whatever it is. I hope that all these issues from the state of security to support projects in Međimurje will focus on the government's participation and will work with elected representatives in municipalities and cities instead of being called losers by ministers and councillors from their party. I believe that great challenges are ahead of us and that constructive dialogue is crucial in the development of Croatia as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1269	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1270	I absolutely understand your dissatisfaction and frustration, we in this coronary crisis had a Podravka stock company assembly where representatives of the state appeared against the proposal of the administration and the supervisory board and voted that the state was withdrawing profits. I understand that, too, if the state needs to raise funds from somewhere for the coronary crisis. Today we had a chance to see the government program, the road fast to Bjelovar is inside, the road fast to Koprivnica is not, I think that's a clear enough message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1271	The next debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1272	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On the facebook of president Gordan Jandrokovic's facebook, he writes as of July 1st, "The fight against corruption is crucial for ensuring the prosperous and happy Republic, and the best weapon we have in this fight is transparency and every spent state kuna must have an excuse and purpose visible to all. In the next term, we introduce the transparency of state spending at the country-wide level because it is the only way to be safe for the Republic of Croatia." Namely, the proposal for a Government of the Republic of Croatia programme on p. Although it foresees some kind of transparency, only at the level of municipalities, cities and counties, the government says by amending the Law on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government will commit all local and regional communities to public and internet publication of spent public money. However, when comparing what President Gordan Jandrokovic has promised voters who have chosen him with a huge number of votes, I congratulate him on his choice of vote. Then we can see that somewhere there is a promise to introduce the transparency of state spending. Don't even try to say it's not possible. If I can get the U.S., so can the little RH. Do not underestimate the reason of Croatian citizens, I remind you of the proposal of colleagues from MOST who, of course, resolutely rejected HDZ in the previous meeting, who wanted to partially introduce the transparency of state spending when talking about the consumption of officials at travel costs and representation. Now, why is it important for citizens to have insight into the consumption of every kuna from the state budget and from public institutions, institutions, businesses and agencies? Because, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives, only in such a form of transparency will the ministers not share the money of Croatian citizens by grandmothers and uncles. I'll remind you here of the cases of the Ministry of Regional Development, after the grant of funds, the Mercedes in the yard. On state incentives where the debated Ministers of Hectares and Hectares of Agricultural Encourages received kunas for their vineyards. At the university and this Zagreb university which falls for years of quality, but grows by the consumption of bottled wines, which is managed by a man who wanted to assign honorary doctor Milan Bandić and in any way not only transparent. And the latest case, of course, I won't miss mentioning it, buying perfume to get the minister out of here to give his personal touch, but a personal point by means of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, we belong to the opposite political sexes, but I am optimistic or I hope that Mr Plenkovic will complement the government's proposal and implement it as quickly as possible. Personally, I am ready to support such a law on transparency of the consumption of Croatian citizens' money at all levels. It is clear to all of us that now is the time to gather our heads and that we must be responsible, restore the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in institutions and start to manage money honestly and honestly from their pockets. If you do not complete the proposal for a programme then you are not responsible or honest, and you are not because if it were, you would first put yourself under the supervision of the citizens because you promised it, the president promised. Until you do my hand for the program, of course you won't get it. According to the corruption perception index, the Republic of Croatia is deeply corrupt. Show that you want to change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1273	We also have your replication, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1274	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Ahmetovic, I'm sure we have some new transparency, so there's no reason why we don't have new transparency. But that's what it says about what an esteemed colleague said when he went to the campaign with some things I said you were going to the campaign, and you can't do it, he said, and he promised. So, obviously there was a promise of transparency, we have a new transparency, but that transparency was quite, quite important to this majority of 76 hands because that most of 76 hands were one of the reasons that we had transparency, so we had this afternoon and now this evening we're hearing a lot of new things, so I'm sure this is a case of new transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1275	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1276	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. So anyone who talks about new transparency, but about the very old integrity, or not the integrity of the government run by Prime Minister Plenkovic, because if someone can write that they will introduce transparency and that every spent national kuna will be visible to everyone and that is the only way that the Republic of Croatia can be called a safe Republic, so as soon as it sits in the constituency benches somehow forgets, so it offers us some sort of partial transparency, then it can be nothing but a lack of integrity. I hope that the voters of Mr. Gordan Jandrovic and the future prime minister are aware of this fat deception, which they have given a large number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1277	The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Ahmetovic, you've talked nicely about transparency, about spending public money or state money, which has now been the obligation of all, including state ministries, as well as the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, the County, our municipalities and cities, and there is a clear law that speaks of it, these are just new additions that would require even better transparency. Examples of non-transparent or criminal behavior, you listed them but you didn't, you forgot all the words. There are examples of your head of tax administration who's been sentenced to two years in prison for abuse of authority and position in her business by raising entrepreneurs from Chepin. You forgot to mention Mrs. Devereaux. Mayor Merzel and her trial, the dozens of mayors and the captains you've been convicted of, you must say the same about those from our ranks, then you will be transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1279	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1280	Thank you. I'm so glad you opened this question, I'm proud and happy that the people you mentioned were in line with the SDP, now right where they were supposed to be. They're not in these assembly benches and if I were a member of HDZ, I'd be ashamed to sit near the man who bought perfume yesterday to leave a personal touch on someone who's leaving work tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1281	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As a prominent politician long ago said that our heads and our own ranks would come, this is what Djakic wanted to point out. This is the third time we've discussed the trust of a government, the first time it was in 2008, the situation was actually similar. HDZ received 66 mandates and the mandate was the same. What's different? The government programme has no guardians of the coalition agreement. The prime minister of the government's coalition agreement was Damir Polancec. As Polancec finished, so did the government. Now there are no guardians of the coalition agreement because the guardian of the coalition agreement is only one and that is interest and power. You have a relatively, in fact, unrealested parliamentary majority and it's known in the Croatian political system, which is most of the narrower, it's co-operation stronger because when you had that 90, you fell apart in six months. That's just as clear. Something about the program. On page 28, there is a chapter sport. The Constitutional Court rejected yesterday or these days all requests for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Sport Act, which passed our coalition in 2015, so I now call on the Ministry of Sports to finally implement the 2015 Sport Act. On page 39 and 40, see fellow Pavić that there are numbers, at least there are page numbers, and that's something. Some infrastructure projects, as mentioned, are mentioned, I think either Mr. Butkovic should be cloned or made by three traffic ministers. And the road bypass, or Omis-Split and Kozjak tunnel and the second tube of Učka and Dubrovnik tunnels, the border of C. Gora and now there is more. How much is there? There's a lot of it. As for that, I'll keep the government program here under the bench and every time you get here, I'll ask you about each of those roads how many miles it's made, how many miles it's paved up and I hope I don't have to ask you how many tunnels are painted. That's what I hope I won't have to ask you. On page 36, we're talking about fighting corruption. It's going to be a hard fight, I'd call it a frat war. And I wish you a lot of success in that fight that you have as little as possible, both of you. And we'll keep an eye on that. ... That's right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Therefore, fewer ministries, horizontal communication will be easier and do not let state secretaries from one ministry go to another ministry and third ministry, etc., will now have to join smaller ministries. And change them before they start walking around the ministries because those who have walked, who are now in prison, called the ministers and some of them, here's a fellow proposed defence minister who's probably gone and gone down his shoulders, I'm going to try to quote him what he meant "well, is she normal?" But he could have said that to the Prime Minister before, so it wouldn't have come to you as a problem. And finally, I must admit that I am sorry that I cannot vote for a member of the government, Vice President Milosevic. I remember him from working together at the Department of Administration, and I'm sorry he's not the vice president in our government, and I remember what happened in the 2015 campaign when he was on our IX list. The constituency. He received a large number of votes in municipalities with the Serb majority and in one municipality with the Croatian majority. It's the Seget municipality. Given that the head of the Seget municipality is now a representative and that he has to vote for him and he would not want to, and yet today he is asking those 37 who voted for him, dear Boris, to take Vinkov's voice as my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1283	We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1284	Comrade Bauk, I fully agree with you when you say that the announced fight against corruption will be a very difficult battle, or programme item of HDZ, exactly, the most difficult fight within and against itself so that I think you have well assessed it and that it will be the most challenging programme part of HDZ but should wish them good luck in this fight for Croatia. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1285	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1286	I'd like to thank my fellow voters. So, we will look out for any attempt to melt down the blade of the institutions that we have chosen in 2012 by the basis of the law that the HDZ adopted in 2011 in the EU accession process. It's the Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest. This is also, among other things, the Commissioner for Information and these are transparency is indeed one of the most effective safeguards in the fight against corruption. Therefore, to every attempt to close information, to hide information, to avoid responding, we will react because we will always say, that is what your fight against corruption has given you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1287	Thank you very much. The next one will speak, the next one will be a respected representative of Rade Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1288	... candidates and candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, since I took the first word today, that is, tonight, I want to congratulate Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ on the election victory. All, the elections were held for all July 5th, all offered their election programmes and it is clear that the victory of Andrej Plenkovic is unquestionable. It's said that few people went to the polls, so those who wanted to, they found ways, those who didn't want to, they found excuses. And I once again congratulate Plenkovic on his victory and wish him all the happiness in his further work. It can only be a top politician, responsible, valuable, determined and unwavering. Today we have heard here that he is not exactly, I think that, exactly, Andrej Plenkovic, a prototype of a modern European politician whom the Croatian people trust, and I also believe that this programme that has been written, will be achieved and the goal of this programme is actually to make the Croatian people better through these four years. I believe that it will succeed and that the Croatian people will be happier and happier in four years. We have been hit by a pandemic of immeasurable proportions and clearly that the priorities of life have changed, i.e. interests in such a situation, some of the things that were certainly planned have not been done. I must also point out here that the heart of our country of Croatia's capital Zagreb has hit a devastating earthquake where we must do everything to bring home to people who have lost their homes because a man without a home is practically the same as without a country. There have been a lot of things here today, so I don't want to repeat myself, I'm going to say just a few things, so about the system of education and education, I want a new minister of all happiness, the system of education and education is a very demanding and responsible system, and certainly the necessary reforms are necessary as soon as possible. Here before I say anything about reform, I want to thank all professors and professors and all those who work in the system of education and education that they passed their maturity exam during the pandemic of the coronary crisis and that we are, in fact, among the first countries in Europe that have responded to the challenge, that is to say, organized distance teaching. What I want to say is to be done in a system of education and education where, to get the conditions that all of our students have the same conditions anywhere to live in Our Nice Croatia, and also, I want the pedagogue standard to live in as soon as possible where students would go on a shift and then have a choice, or diet at school, to relieve parents who are busy with their jobs. We are also witnessing that in the system of education and education, especially in primary school, the flood is excellent, so I am speaking in the direction that it would be good to think about introducing a small graduation or that students who finish primary school get a certain test to see how many they have adopted certain content and how much they can enroll in high school. I would also like 10 or more mandatory items to be introduced into high school and the other items to be re-elected. So, to create centres of excellence, we are a small state, a small nation, and we have a lot of smart people, who, behold, we witness, anywhere in the world, Croats have responsible, difficult, scientific jobs. What I wanted to say was something else about Croats outside the country of Croatia. So, this honorable home, and I believe it will, as it has done so far, the Prime Minister also, to protect. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1289	Thank you very much. The next one will be addressed by a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear Minister Berosch, I'm glad you're here because I'm going to focus on health care since it's a profession and a call. We will all agree that today Croatia's health system faces a number of challenges. You, Minister Beros, were a close associate of Minister Kujundzic so you know all the problems before this pandemic, for the large waiting lists, for the huge debts in health, almost 10 billion kuna. You also know about the debts of large-scale drugs that threaten the interruption of medical care facilities, we all know about the lack of doctors and nurses, the departure of healthcare professionals from Croatia, etc. One commendation, as minister, is that you have taken good care of the pandemic of COVID 19, you have had great support for healthcare workers regardless of the party colors because we agree that the nation's health is a superseded issue. What you've done wrong is when you used the term "Fifth Column" that steals and hides protective equipment just because it was indicated that in health institutions, homes for elderly and powerless there was not enough equipment, masks, etc. There were really problems at the time, but here's hope that these kind of statements will no longer be aimed at making mutual cooperation better. If it's for... specifically someone responsible by a doctor, director, etc., I think that here you could point out specifically who was involved and punish them appropriately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's get on with the program. So in its health programme, the government proposes and lists several points. I didn't notice that this was all particularly elaborated, and I don't even know how you're going to fully think about doing it together, for example under heading 1, page 5, it's said that 3 billion will be invested in modernising the health system and health care. I would certainly like to finally change the way in which the hospital is financed, to value what is done or whether you will continue to leave this imbalance in terms of limits assigned to certain institutions, which are assigned by the state and on the other hand, the founders or the county have other powers and here we see in fact by many counties, the city of Zagreb, etc., that some are really doing what they want. Furthermore, the problem is that the lack of healthcare professionals requires that overtime be carried out in order for the system to function at all, and on the other hand, the Labour Act is being violated due to too many overtime hours, or individual employees are being suspended for overtime hours. It is certainly high time to start adequately monitoring the outcomes of the treatment, we are, unfortunately, almost at the beginning of the EU on this, certainly not much is said in the programme that the work of every healthcare professional will be evaluated specifically. Whether to set specific time-cadrovic normatives because you will agree yourself that it is not whether someone will look at 20 patients in an hour or not and someone will look at the quality of five people as well. Will you tolerate individual directors to deafen to eve specifically your instructions to the minister, to the findings of inspections etc.? I hope you change that. Two, you mention the National University Hospital, we've actually been hearing about it for years, and so far, something has not been done in these past four years, so here we have lived and seen, I hope that at least something will be launched and done in this government term. Under three, you mention an Immunological Institute that needs to be resuscitated urgently. Since 2014, as the Institute's production has been shut down, over 30 million kunas are spent annually, employees would like to work and here, I think it's high time to actually take concrete steps to make it work. And finally I repeat that the health of the nation is a superseded question, and so here I call upon you to listen and respect the good proposals of our opposition because we are all here for the benefit of the citizens and here I have to say, I am here for the first time, of course, and I didn't come here to fight or argue or insult, so here I find it unacceptable that every comment from the opposition, my colleagues here are actually responding in terms of here, here we have the elections, you haven't and in fact it doesn't contribute any quality debate to the well-being of the citizens. So I call here to respect each other and to respect the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1291	Thank you very much. There's also a line on your presentation. It's the first respected representative of the Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1292	Thank you. I can be completely direct, Dr. Devereaux. Maric is my student and more or less everything she has said, it can be accepted, but it is also to be said that Minister Beroš is in that place for several months, because of this crown of crisis, it can be said that this is his first term. Personally, I highly appreciate it, I think it's capacitated both intellectually and as a doctor to lead this well, but it will also have great resistance and the health system has great problems and I call on Minister Beros to sit down with the Minister of Finance, bring all the problems to the table because it's the only way to start dealing with it. Then they will be able to solve the problem and hospitals in Čakovec and what is their mentoring system and who will be responsible for their professional and any other activity but it is impossible if they do not sit first with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1293	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1294	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1295	The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1296	... Dear colleagues Maric, I commend your very constructive debate in the context of what you have said, I am interested in your personal attitude regarding the functional merger of hospitals, the concrete unification of departments, for example between OB Varazdin and ZB Čakovec and what you say on the proposal to re-emerge some new form of home health which would include the merger of both emergency medicine and public health in one institution, is something that would contribute to the rationalisation of both human resources and business and reduce the fact that unfortunately, sometimes, county and health institutions are the place of political arrest regardless of which political option was in which the middle. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1297	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1298	Dear colleague, one minute at my disposal is insufficient for me to give you a quality answer to what you said. The functional integration was also talked about by our previous government, but the functional integration of health institutions must be done on a reasonable principle, not on the principle of mileage of Čakovec-Varaždin 15 km, so let's get one hospital abolished, it doesn't make sense. So, functionally connecting individual departments yes, meaning we specifically in Čakovec when you mentioned we have an intervention cardiology and we are actually becoming a regional centre in that sense and why not patients from other hospitals and other counties come to us. But the prioritization of certain departments just to show up here is the mileage we've solved, I don't support it. And for all of this, here's another short time, we can talk about it in a little longer minutes and health homes, and about the entanglement and what I touched in what there's one thing the state of another local administration might be discussing, but here I'm saying there's going to be more time and I believe you'll listen to our suggestions as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1299	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1300	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected candidates for ministers and ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I like the government's ambitious programme, and I don't mind being very specific and that the goals are being set in figures because the figures are exact, the figures are measurable. However, what I do not like is the fact that it still counts on the syncope in Croatian citizens, so some old promises are sold under new ones. That's why I say I like programs that contain concrete promises and concrete figures. Why am I saying this? Because in this programme we have at least five concrete promises or goals that you promised Croatian citizens four years ago, and you failed to fulfill them. You say in your program on page five, there will be conditions for opening 100,000 new jobs and 10 billion kuna will be invested in it. Great. But four years ago, you promised to open 180,000 new jobs, of course, this is not a new promise, this is a debt to Croatian citizens that you have not met, and now you're selling something old under new. Secondly, by the end of the term, you say the average salary will be 7600 kuna and the minimum salary of at least 4.250 kuna. Four years ago, in this place, the same candidate for prime minister promised to secure different amounts of minimum wages for different jobs. Of course you didn't do it, the minimum wage for all jobs is the same and amounts to 3,250 kuna. Let's move on, the Immunological Institute will be revitalised, a wonderful promise, I only hope that it will not end as promised four years ago that we will return INA to Croatian hands. The next thing you promise is to increase investment in research and development from the current 1% to 2.5% of GDP and you will develop creative industries. You see, this is a promise that has not been repeated for four years in a row, this is a promise that is repeated here and that part of Mr. Oreshkovic's mandate is not fulfilled. You've increased your annual growth to about 0.77% of GDP over the past four years. Then you're saying there's going to be parental benefits at full pay, so that's a shame. The delimination of parental fees has been promised to Croatian citizens and citizens also four years ago, with one addition to saying that every newborn child in Croatia will have a thousand euros in compensation or parents for each newborn child. Of course, you gave up on that, although your most intelligent demographic policy was then one of the backbones of your program. Let's move on. In this programme you promise to build 20 regional fruit and vegetable centres and double the irrigation of the agricultural area, nice. However, you have another debt to the Croatian citizens from whom you obviously gave up because it is not in the programme, that you will provide 11 waste management centres, and only two are in the final phase and those for which the preparation was made de facto long ago by Zoran Milanovic. However, there is no longer a promise in your agriculture programme that all available agricultural areas will be placed in the function of agricultural production, which is somewhere around 426.000 hectares. In this term of four years, you have fulfilled only half of this, and the other half obviously you do not intend to fulfill it because there is simply no one in the program. It's gone. Just as you disappeared and the promises you made four years ago, which is to build hydropower plants, increase the number of doctors in primary health care, introduce measures to stimulate healthcare workers, build maps of possible investments, build railway infrastructure, change of statistical regions etc., etc. This is a promise like Sanader's security card, we'll follow you, but please don't insult the voter's intelligence. It's an honor to say, we can't always fill everything, we've done this, we haven't done this, but don't sell the old for a new one, that's all I'm asking you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1301	And your exposure has caused more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Voter, I can't trust you with my own ears. ... I don't believe in my own ears. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You are now here in your debate to say that Croatian voters are naive and that they do not know what they did 15 days ago. Well, all that stuff you said, they know, too. And when you draw the line on that Sunday night is the next result, HDZ 64 MPs, SDP 32, HDZ of 19 members of Government 18, SDP 0, but regardless of that fellow Glasovac, I will not, unlike Mr. Bauk, who wished the HDZ a brother-killing war, I will wish you brotherhood and unity because as you started with your internal elections, perhaps for a year we will mention the SDP, was once an SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1303	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1304	Don't put words in my mouth, I don't think Croatian voters are naive, but unlike you, I'm extremely worried that even more than 50% of Croatian citizens didn't go to the polls and they told you and us. And your legitimacy comes from the number of voters left in the election, Mr. Bacic. And I'll never be so bold as to assure Croatian citizens how great they are, how wonderfully they live, their honey and milk are just not aware of it, and that's exactly what you're doing with this replica of yours. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1305	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1306	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Voter, I think you've well established that the syncope is in control. You've cut this program a little higher, I've focused on one on, say, external affairs. And here, if you see the goals, here if you see the sentences a little bit reformed, we've changed the parameters a little bit, we've inserted some things into the word, or two we've thrown out somewhere clean so it's not really a copy trap that people would say, but basically it's all the same. And our strategic goals haven't changed in four years, they shouldn't have, but we haven't even achieved the ones we've set ourselves and that have been achieved, and not just in foreign affairs at all. 2 billion kuna for Slavonia. Did it help Slavonia? What are the results? Shutting down the company, leaving people, even more people who will be looking for their happiness in the near future somewhere else. So the results are important, the results are missing, and this is actually just copying and re-promising already promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1307	I'm so glad you brought up this grand project "Slavonia" which has led to further devasting, collapse, migration of Slavonia. 20 billion kunas did not give this government to Slavonia because it cares deeply about Slavonia but because it belongs to Slavonia, just as these 20 billion belong to this region and three other regions. However, it is inadmissible that through the project "Slavonia" and what little money was paid out of the estimated 20 billion, which is about 24 embarrassing percentages that you paid to Slavons, and there they managed to direct the money to their powerful ones who with money intended to save Slavonia built hotels, invested in real estate on the Adriatic. Now, that's sad and sad, but that's HDZ policy towards Slavonia, and I'm afraid that's how it's going to be according to this project Zagora, like, Banovina, Gorski kotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1308	The next is the replica of the respected representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1309	Thank you, Mr. President. The home movement here sits very nicely in the middle so we can see the right side and the left side, or how we turn left and right, but I have to look back on today's programme that we saw in the Croatian Government. I've got a whole series of remarks on him, and I made that clear today, but those remarks are four years old, so I can make it right in walking. But Mrs. Glasovac, your programs that have been in the last ten years, and one of the most famous programs is also the health care 340 pages of the catastrophic text your ministers wrote. I believe they never read it. From this program you have 320 pages of beautiful desires and a dozen pages of half-decision to be implemented in four years. No decision by the Registrar has been made and I believe that the minister did not even read it because one trust agency told me that she wrote that program for you and that they just handed you the program. Therefore, do not attack anything that can still be fixed. This part can't be fixed. And for Minister Berosa, he has been praying for this programme since 2012, still on the official website of the Ministry of Health, now you are a minister, remove it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1310	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1311	We can't even get along with the two of us, not about the microphone, not about the attitude. So, just one thing, in 2011, we were left with a burnt country, an empty register, and you know what kind of economic growth itself. After four years plus 2.5 GDP growth, a presumption of everything and what little this government could boast of the previous four years. Sapienti watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1312	The next is the replica of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Voter, I'm impressed by your boldness when you took responsibility for Slavonia by replacing your wounded friend. By replacing your wounded friend, you began to worry from Zadar for Slavonia with such steps that you got so significant results that were three times smaller than the previous ones. You forgot to read what it was all about in Slavonia, how much in the 4th constituency in the past time spent money from European funds, how many irrigation systems were made available to our peasants, how much in the Virovitica-Podravska County a billion and 700 million kuna projects that were completed and you witnessed coming to our county, you saw every day we opened finished projects and put them into the function of citizens. Sugar Virovitica is not closed as your wounded comrade spreads information and lies and deceptions, it continues to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1314	Thank you, thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1315	Dear Djakic, it has been known for a long time, you know that my parents live in Slavonia you know them personally, but I will not go to that one personal level, I will just say that you are probably warmly welcomed by 150,000 young people who have moved out of Slavonia in recent years because of you and your likes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1316	Honorable representative Hajdukovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1317	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Article 238 has been injured because I see this as a demeanor by the MPs. At least I'm not hurt by corruption, I'm from that grand county you're talking about, I guess that's because you've invested so much money. Shame may be upon you, shame may be upon you, as you treat your fellow agents. I would never tell you. That's what it says about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1318	This, of course, is not a injured Rules of Procedure, so Djakic didn't think of you as far as I realized, this one has no speech. We are going to the next debate, and it will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1319	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to welcome Mr. Plenkovic if he's still here, if he didn't say hello. Respected candidates and candidates for future ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Government of the Republic of Croatia, special attention is drawn to social policy specifics that we must say that over the past few years has been one of the most derelict policies in the Republic of Croatia. Its mark was that the poor remained poor, persons with disabilities became invisible, persons in institutions had no possibility of going to life in the community, and elderly people were brought to the very edge of existence. The credibility of the new government programme is now becoming questionable. The programme states that the government, that the government of the Republic of Croatia will be guided by the highest values of the constitutional order, among which I point out social justice. In all objectives, the government will be committed to an open and constructive dialogue with all stakeholders of society, especially with social partners, trade unions and employers. Priority 1 lists social security with the first objective of preserving jobs and social security. First, the government's programme area highlights social security, job conservation. And after reading these theoretically elaborated settings, we are facing a reality that will make them completely inconclusive. How to accept these phrases as reality when at the same time 160 workers of Meggle and 180 workers of the Viro sugar factory are now brought before the final act, they are left without a job. The existence of at least 340 Slavonian families has been compromised without mentioning all those directly related to this industry. What mechanisms in these programming definitions prove that we do not fall for the theoretical hairstyle of this government, which is a real, practical evaluation of the social policy moments of the last term completely defeating. In the end, she would refer to a statement by MP Bačić from the afternoon and tell him and apparently this government would buzz a lot and give little honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1320	We have on your replication. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're from Osijek and Slavonia, you've visited Virovitica-Podravska and Osijek-Baranja County now in the campaign, but I don't know what kind of Slavonia you're talking about, so have you not heard that billions are pouring into Slavonia, that new jobs are constantly opening up, that young people are flocking to Slavonia, not only from Croatia, but from the whole EU because it is a pleasant place to live. You haven't heard of it? Well, I've been hearing about it all day, so I want to talk about it a little bit. I want to draw your attention to the fact that obviously in Slavonia, there is a better life than we think. So that we obviously don't see empty villages or see the wrong empty villages, see the wrong cities that are empty, listen wrongly to the citizens who tell us that they want to go to Germany, follow the dishes after 35 years of work in Croatia, that they have no future in their country, that they have to look for happiness somewhere further. So, my colleague Nikolic, I really don't know what kind of Slavonia you're talking about because I've heard that in Slavonia it's much, much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1322	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1323	Thank you. Representative Hajdukovic, what kind of Slavonia are we talking about? It would be complemented by the reasons for the viritative sugarcane that fell with its paws. There's a lot of reasons why it happened. The most mentioned is the low production of sugar beet in the area where the plant gravitates. Apparently abandoned agricultural policy has fallen under the pressure of a strong lobby that has made everything Croatian sugar production disappear. The virus that once wore the symbol of a sweet city will become a city with bitter taste in its mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1324	The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Romana, I'd like to ask you not to talk about the viritative sugar shop and don't spread lies and deceptions. Virovitic sugar is still working as a refinery of sugar whether or not yellow, whether sugar cane with a new drying program for certain products placed on the market. If you knew, you'd say it for sure. The incentive for a ton of turnips is EUR 1,000, but our farmers have turned to other cultures. The fact is that the reduced production capacity of tails for 10,000 tonnes, but the sugar can still work and works with 56 people, and those others who did not want to accept 4,000 kuna took over 150 thousand kuna severance, opened private jobs and worked, also, as co-operatives of sugar... Your lies have no place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1326	Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1327	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, it works, it works, and it works, but Sugarna Virovitica had about 300 and some employees, and now there's only 60 jobs left. It's a cold drive, that's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1328	The next replica is the respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I had no intention of reporting for the replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Never, but she called me. Ma'am. Nikolic, wake up, the election's over, the campaign's over, you've had, you've been on the campaign for a month, you've been slandering, you've been accusing and the people didn't believe you, especially in your election unit. The HDZ won 8 seats there, and you won 3 seats. And you tell us that people don't trust us. Imagine how much they just don't trust you when they've given you three times less support than the HDZ. Wake up, I told you, the campaign is over, and it is honorable to be in opposition, to serve the Croatian people and in opposition, and I suggest you understand that, to hold on to us by the same stick because Croatia is in crisis. A crisis that has not been recorded in these areas since II. svt. The war, the crisis that came from outside and instead of turning to the future, you've been performing the same way all day in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1330	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1331	I'll just take a minute. Well, they were alive and seen. And I hope these future ministers here don't buzz like the last 11 ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1332	The next replica is respected MPs Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1333	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Nikolic, just to get attached to the number of Slavonian families you mentioned, if we take co-operatives from these companies, the number of companies is growing, which means that the obvious increase in people who have lost their jobs in Slavonia is covered by the government's programme in the chapter of job conservation and social security. This is obviously the new safe Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1334	Dear Representative Nikolic. The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1335	Your Honor, Vice President. Respected candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I join, since this is my first debate, all the congratulations of my predecessors. I will briefly look back on higher education and more on the area of the town of Varazdin, or the 3rd constituency that I belong to and immediately at the beginning, I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the current engagement in the investment in higher education in the city of Varazdin. So, just to remind you, in the previous term, the government donated several properties to the University of the North that were needed for its further development. Also, the North University budget, last year, was increased by another 20 million kuna, and a new student restaurant and a new dormitory was built in the city of Varazdin. That would also be the answer of counterpart Jaksic, who mentioned the region in the north here and that the previous government did not actually have any investments. Here, for example, we are just talking about a large number of investments in higher education. However, what is the problem and what remains as a problem and the question is the financing issue of the building of FOI campus or its phase 2. In fact, thanks to the SDP government, when I say thanks, of course, to the quotes, Croatia failed to negotiate a financial framework for the construction of educational infrastructure, except for dorms and student restaurants during the negotiations with the EU. I think that it is not especially important to stress the importance of FOI, not only for the north of the Republic of Croatia, but also for this whole region. And for that very reason, I am very pleased to hear this announcement from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so on the page. 24 and 25, which cites investment in higher education and also in student standards. In view of all of this, this way I really appeal to find resources in the coming period or to find a way to finance the phase of the 2nd FOI campus. Recently, the prime minister and future Prime Minister was in Varazdin where he visited a new technology park that was also built and built thanks to this government. It houses a really large number of start-ups, and some of them, after leaving the incubator, from the tech park, have grown into really renowned companies in the IT area. By further investing in the university, the concrete construction of the FOI campus creates a quality fit that is easy to employ, for example, in this ICT sector, or in the technology park, and thus we close the circle and ensure that young people remain, above all, in the north of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1336	We have several replicas on your exhibit, the respected representative Michel Jaksic will be the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1337	So, the historical University of North Koprivnica was given the former military space in the time of the Government of Jadranka Kosor and had to build the Palace of Justice which we built and handed over to use the state. After that, during the Government of Zoran Milanovic, the University of the North received the status of the 8th Public University and the buildings and all investments in the University of the North went exclusively from the budget of the town of Koprivnica. In Koprivnica, apart from the Government of Zoran Milanovic, who took over as a public university and gave money for salaries, nothing was built by state funds, university and city by means of a student canteen, we are now preparing for a public-private partnership to build a student home, and ZIC or a science innovation centre is stuck somewhere in the gaps between former Minister Divjak and former Minister Pavić. I spoke from the corner of Koprivnica, and suma suma sumarum, Koprivnica + Varazdin, at least per head of students from the Republic of Croatia gets the University of North.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1338	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian. Can you turn yourself off?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1339	... For the term of office of this Government, then last year, and I must now mention my colleague, Stručkak, who submitted the amendment to the budget, so the budget of the University of the North has been increased by 40%. Therefore, you need to follow closely. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1340	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1341	Thank you. A colleague, Habian, from Varazdin County to the current assembly of the Croatian Parliament, has been elected 6 MPs, 5 of whom supports the current government. And for what? So because everything that is important for the area of Varazdin County and the city of Varazdin and of course all municipalities and cities are in the programme of the current government. So, wage growth, pensions, the development of the university community, the integration with the economy, the construction of the necessary hospital facilities, the construction of the fast road of Varazdin-Ivane-Leposlava-Krapin, railway lines and everything that is important for the north of Croatia and the Varazdin County, is in this programme, among other things, in the past term in the area of the Varazdin County... is an investment for 2 billion kuna and this is just a good continuation of that good trend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1342	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1343	Just for a little while, here I can agree with you fellow Strick, so I'm glad that both our colleagues from both the Reformists and the HNS really recognized this programme, and I'm sure in this next period with these 2 billion kunas invested in the north in the past term, we'll be even more, even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1344	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1345	So respected colleagues, fellow MPs, respected vice president, respected prime minister, respected future minister and minister of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I am a longtime member and also a founder of the OPG Association Life, Association Life as the most important strategic branch of future development of Croatia considers agriculture and food production, so it is very important to us what agricultural programmes are and what is the realisation of the current programmes of parties and policy options that have been held by the government. For these reasons, we compared the parts of the HDZ agricultural programme for 2016 and 2020. This clearly shows that HDZ has failed to meet the most important points of its 2016 programme and is mainly repeated in the new programme. I must also point out that there was a similar situation with the SDP government after their term of office. I will now convey the text, one part of the text from word to word from HDZ. So in 2016 we promised us by the end of the term of office of our government all available agricultural areas will be placed in the function of agricultural production. We will enable young farmers to donate unprocessed and abandoned agricultural land with quality defined criteria. In this programme that we have the opportunity to read today, HDZ says the plan is to continue the implementation of land policy with an emphasis on young farmers, OPGs and cattlemen in the work of renting and selling state agricultural land and fair treatment of previous owners and employment. I note that no single hectare is yet to be distributed or any contract has been signed during the four-year HDZ rule when we talk about state land. Then, the use of pastures and pasture areas for cattle in the cow-body system, sheep and goats, will increase to 300,000 ha, they promised us in 2016. In 2020, we are again promised 300,000 ha of agricultural and forest land that will function as livestock and plant production. After 2016, we are talking about the establishment of an effective financial system for investments in rural areas as a prerequisite for a safer realisation of EU funds and, firstly, they are talking about agrarian bank, funding programmes, guarantees and bank guarantees in order to actually say in 2020 that the Croatian peasant is in order to carry out development projects at all uninterrupted and to maintain employment and liquidity in case of disturbances and help and speed up association in the implementation of joint projects, it is necessary to establish specialised financial support in agriculture at HBOR, so we forgot about the long-promised agro bank. Then in 2016, Croatian agriculture, I am talking about the text of the HDZ programme, with an appropriate agricultural policy, we can significantly ensure Croatia's food independence, contribute to Croatia's energy independence and achieve a strong trend in exporting agricultural and food products with added value. They promise us 50,000 modernized agricultural holdings. In 2020 on the same topic, they say we will increase agricultural production from the current 17 billion kuna to 22. I remind you that the value of agricultural production in 2016 was 16.4 billion kuna. After that, they say, we will increase the number of OPG carriers under 40 to 20% by 2020. That's what they promised us in 2016. We will change the criteria of rural measures so that young farmers and entrepreneurs in the rural area have a priority for their business and development. In 2020, we promise to increase the share of young farmers from 13% to 20% again with additional support from the redistribution of direct payments. In 2016 they promised to build 40 irrigation systems on 50,000 agricultural areas and in 2020 we are promised to implement 17 public irrigation projects currently covering agricultural areas for about 7,000 ha and by investing them we are actually trying to expand them to just 14,000 hectares. And one more thing, the consequence of the SDP government when we talk about 2016 and its work is large imports of fruits and vegetables that amount to about 50% of total domestic consumption. Beef about 60%, pork about 40%, and today they promise us that Croatia about 40% replaces its demand for pig meat with meat from imports, we will increase pig meat production by 40%. So much for the OPG Association Life and our reflections Only one sentence [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] I hope you'll make it through your program, I really hope so. [[Intruder: The next individual debate will be respected MPs...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1346	Dear Representative Radoja Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1347	Chairman, members of the future, I hope, Government of the Republic of Croatia. My fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I want to say hello to you all and wish us all a successful 4-year work together. I express my satisfaction, so tonight we are only 10 days after the announcement of the election results on the occasion of discussing the programme of selecting a new Croatian government. From this day-to-day debate, the prime minister's presentations show that Croatia as well as most of the world faces many challenges and that is why it is good to have a chance tonight to choose a Croatian government that will successfully respond to these challenges. As a representative from the 11th electoral unit, I must point out the aspect of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the expectations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we are all witnessing that major changes occur in the globalised world, which unfortunately, Croatians in certain parts of the world lead to a difficult situation. It is enough to see which problems the Croats face in Latin, in some Latin American countries, to the position of Croats in BiH. As someone who comes from BiH, it is his duty to point out everything that has been happening lately, which has been happening in BiH for almost 20 years. Namely, various interventions by the international community, and even more by the abuses of more people in BiH, Croatians have been brought into a difficult constitutional position. Namely, all these attempts have led Croats into an unequal position with one basic goal for Croats in BiH to be completely eliminated as a politically equal constituent people. Of course, these efforts failed completely. They failed first of all, thanks to the strong resistance of the Croats in BiH who are today organised through the HNS that brings together practically all Croatian parties in BiH. But these attempts failed and thanks to Croatia's strong support for BiH Croats to preserve their equality. I use this opportunity to thank the Republic of Croatia, the government of the Republic of Croatia for that support. Of course, these attempts won't stop. At first they were covered up, today they're not. It is clear today in many media outlets that Croats should not be equal or constitutionally or truly or formally. For this reason, I am extremely pleased to mention in the new Croatian government's special section the position of Croats in BiH and the Croatian government's commitment to real equality of Croats in BiH. I am convinced that both Croats in BiH and with the help of the Republic of Croatia will achieve their equality, I am convinced that we will achieve this together because it is not only in the interest of the Croats in BiH. The constitutional equality of Croats is also in the interest of all BiH citizens, all the peoples of BiH, because only such BiH guarantees that it will function stable, will be stable, will be functional and will ensure the progress of all its peoples and all its citizens. The equality of the Croatian people is also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia because only a stable, functional, advanced BiH is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And here at the end, thanks to you for your attention, I wish you every good and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1348	Thank you. The final words follow on behalf of the club of MPs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, a respected representative of Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected candidates for ministers and ministers. Here, although we have received a proposal from the government programme 15 minutes before the session begins, I think we have had a good time in discussions and discussions. It was constructive, and we of the Homeland Movement are grateful for the opportunity to learn something in this way. We were founded as a party on 29 February of this year and as you can see, we quickly ended up as the 3rd party in force in the Croatian Parliament. Don't mind us, especially you who run the sessions, our insolence and ignorance enough of HS Rules of Procedure, and don't blame us if you ever see us wandering around the halls, looking for halls, and we want to get there in time. We tried to be constructive today, we tried to be kind of people who would contribute to the quality of the debate in HS, and I hope that we did it. What I can say at the end on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club is that I am pleased to mention the syntagma of new sovereignty because we hope so too, given that it was a part of which we took great care of in our pre-election talks, to mean more peoples in decision-making and decision-making in the Croatian state. On the other hand, we haven't heard enough about what's going to happen by bringing the ministries together, what's going to happen to these people. It is too small, regardless of the figures that have been presented, whether it might pass as a merger of the state administration, the order of the state administration with the counties, you know that around 150 million kunas were spent there to take care of the people who were leaving for the merger and then the counties were doing additional employment and re-burdening the budget. There have also been cases I've heard about, for example. in the Cries that someone resigned, left, got severance and then went back to work. If I don't too much longer, the hours are late, we all can't wait for this to end, I use the opportunity to congratulate the future elected members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in advance, and we'll promise that we'll be a quality opposition that will support all of your quality proposals, but we won't support this government tonight because everything together is very much like the already seen trade and it would be good, here in the end, we know what other individuals and parties have won except for the post of Deputy Prime Minister for their hands in the air, once again congratulating especially because in a very short time you've found the world-wide similar parties with which you'll form this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1350	We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, finally, respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1351	Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, here's a little more, we'll vote. Today I got a new knowledge, not only do I, but I believe all my colleagues on the left, so I'll assume on this side that we have a new set in the Croatian Assembly that calls itself new sovereigns. So we've had globalists so far, both left and right, and today they're right, they're called new sovereigns, and I have to admit it's very funny because unfortunately on that side of the assembly, I've been four years and in today's debate, I haven't seen either "s" from sovereignty or "s" unfortunately. But one very interesting thing, and here you go in this style, you'll be funny and wider to the Croatian public, as you were funny when you were called Christian Democrats or Democrats. Today I have criticised the future potential government here, I will do so in the future because I believe that most of what has been done and what will currently be done by Prime Minister A. Plenkovic hypocritically and that he has betrayed his electoral body, the original voting body, but here I still have to look a little bit at my fellow political spectrum, some, if we have new sovereigns here, we have some new Yugoslavs here, so I will not give you peace, or Croatian sovereigns will be all the thorns in your eye, and you must know that. So no one thinks we'll ever have any partnership on our part. So there's a big gap here that existed, and it's still going to exist. What I'd like to mention here, a little bit of a specific detail, today I forgot to say in front of the club, writes in the program, and you pointed out here that for the purpose of rationalising the public administration, you're going to set up a new institution for the promotion of the economy and culture abroad, if I'm not mistaken. Did I hear it right and read it? I think I heard right. So here's to all those who didn't hear it when the Prime Minister said it, interestingly, he might want to hear it in the final speech if he decides to come here and answer us, what a new institution for promoting the economy and culture, who will work there, how many employees, which will be salaries, that Croatian taxpayers think they need to know. And finally, another topic that has been mentioned several times today, but here I will mention it once again because it is very, very important and this is the subject of the euro. There are fellow MPs here who are for the euro, they are called new sovereigns or are called on this side something, the neoliberal left, some come on, with nostalgia towards Yugoslavia, all are for the euro, and yet there are those who view the little euro critically. I only want one thing to happen in this House that right argumentable public debate about the euro, so let's see pro and vice versa, let's see what that euro brings us, as far as we're concerned. Then let the Croatian public decide whether it is for the euro and against the euro. And finally, why don't the people directly ask themselves in the referendum what they think of the euro? Why be afraid of the people? I talked to my colleagues about it today, so they told me it would tear down the Constitutional Court. Well, of course it will bring down the Constitutional Court everything that doesn't correspond to A. Plenkovic specifically. And that's what I have to say, a very similar policy and thinking as well as a colleague sitting here on my left, specifically from the SDP, very similar. The nuances share you, I would even dare say that you were no different about any key topic, so no wonder SDP lost because SDP voters voted for whom? And for HDZ. If we take today that this second part, a slightly more sovereign part of the spectrum, that it's got a lot of MPs, only where HDZ could get votes, got in your spectrum part because your policies are similar, left and liberal. So, of course you will not have the support of Croatian sovereigns, we will also wish for the recent fall of this Serbian-Croatian trade coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1352	We are now going to discuss SDP's Club of Representatives, finally, respected colleague Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1353	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, of course the SDP club won't and can't support this government's programme and can't support this government for a whole series of reasons my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about all day. First, the plan is insufficient, the goal exists, no bearer, no deadlines. Today we expected at least a draft recovery plan, a recovery on the trail of the next generation, we were expecting at least a draft of the European semester, so all to make the most of that 22 billion, because one part of it obviously comes at the end of this year and in the spring of next year. So I'm going to repeat my first sentence, Chinese two signs, crisis is the first danger sign and second is an opportunity. For an opportunity they need brave men, for an opportunity they need good will, for an opportunity they need knowledge but for an opportunity there should be a direction. So as far as we're concerned, as far as the SDP is concerned, we've shown in the peak of COVID infection, there's a colleague Beros, that SDP and then in the Parliament were constructive, that we pointed out possible solutions, we didn't point out and we knew, we all knew that Europe has no protective equipment, protective masks, we weren't interested in how you obtained them, we wanted to get them to us, for the sake of Croatia, for the sake of Croatians' health and of course for Croatian economy. So we will be constructive, we may also support some of your good proposals, some good laws, but we also expect this Croatian Parliament to be a switch, to be a shift, that you too support our good laws. We will not insist on the intellectual property of our good laws, we will present them but implement them if necessary and change them, simply implement them for the benefit of all our citizens. Effort and courage are not enough without purpose or direction. This is what I was saying today, and I expect a colleague of the new Minister of European and Regional Development to do as soon as possible a basic roof and strategic document, a national development strategy, without it nothing, without which there is no withdrawal of funds. And you have often accused us of plagiarism, for RESTART but here, let's be honest, you know that, sure Croatia is the only thing you used from the national development strategy. Based on the analysis, based on the polls, you took advantage of the intellectual property of some others and put in your slogan. Okay, it's on your soul. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers who continue your mandate, I wish you every good, I want you to succeed but of course do not repeat the mistakes of the first term. Learn from your mistakes, but better yet, learn from other people's mistakes. None of us here will live 100, 200, 3000 years, maybe someone 100, 110, but I see a few candidates, but 200, 300 absolutely won't, and none of us can live long enough to make all the mistakes on our shoulders, make all the mistakes in our lives. Therefore, dear Prime Minister, you certainly know the world famous “If everyone thinks the same way, then someone doesn’t. ” It's true for everyone, it's true for everyday life, for everyday profession, for everyday politics. So if everyone thinks the same way, then surely someone doesn't think. Those who serve blindly and listen blindly to the party's discipline will be recognized in these words and will surely see who of them does not think, who of them does not want to think and who certainly does not want good for Croatia. The EU's motto is Europe, i.e. "EU-United in Variety", on this trail therefore respected by the Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, I want you to allow Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, today the Vice-President of the Parliament, to be very well guided, so let us be united here in our diversity. Respect the diversity and we will respect all your laws, all your good plans, once again, of course, we will not support because what you have put in our table today, does not give us confidence, does not bring optimism and make the same mistakes, which is why you brought Croatia to such low branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1354	We are now going to the Independent Lists Bridge, final, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1355	Thank you very much. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, respected Croatian peoples, today was a debate on the trust of the Croatian government and its programme. A few minutes before the debate itself, we got this government's program. The Mosta Club has made constructive proposals and remarks and as the most active club in the past term with the most legislative initiatives, proposals, amendments, I hope that this assembly of parliament, regardless of what we decide now on the Government, will accept good initiatives regardless of where they come from, will be in the interest of the Croatian people, whether on the left hand side of the assembly, centre, on the right hand side of the assembly. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. The coronary crisis has exposed all the bad policies in Croatian society. The Croatian village is extinct. We did not protect Croatian peasants and farmers. We didn't protect our agricultural land. Other countries are our neighbouring countries, banned the sale of agricultural land. We weren't role models, we were abandoning our hurricanes. 800,000 ha of agricultural land, the distinguished prime minister is under the weeds. We're not self-sufficient, we're importing 3 billion euros of harmful food from imports through import lobbies, through the ministries. It is not the fault of the Croatian people and our citizens, 300,000 who have gone in the last 4.5 years to Ireland, to process other countries' fields. And of them, the Croatian state has 6% of their GDP and bad policies have sent them. I expect colleagues and colleagues, and from you as prime minister, that you will accept democracy, you are calling as a European politician, that you will never again spit on the referendum initiatives on amending the Election Law, because at least those citizens you have emigrated with poor policies had the right to vote electronically and by letter and certainly would have other results. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Our fields aren't modeled. I hope, Prime Minister, you will respect that. accept that proposal we made as a bridge club, that it will declare an exclusive economic belt and protect our sovereign right on which we have the protection of our fisherman, our sea, our submarine and our high seas. It's a Croatian national interest. I hope you will accept all our proposals on the distribution of agricultural land to our peasant because we need to know that it is never divided to the prime minister again, never to encourage and never to produce less. It's not just Meggle's question in Osijek. The question is, what did we have just a few years ago, 65,000 O.P.G.s dealing with dairy production, now burn below 5,000. The question is the survival of a Croatian man in this area. I hope that we will ban the import of GMOs, sales, trade and planting, hopefully but all of it to encourage domestic production, not to import pasta products the most. From our cereal i.e. from our Slavonia who can feed us all. Only my Dalmatia can feed 11 million people on 200,000 ha of raw land. These are our interests, colleagues and colleagues. It's not under these lights everything. Go, look to those parts where you came from. The people have chosen you. People leave as I have said and repeated both my colleagues and colleagues, we must have the right to preserve and return to the people's referendum, to keep the referendum deciding on important things such as the introduction of the euro and the quenching of the kuna. We must devote ourselves exclusively to the survival of the Croatian man in these areas. I saw Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora. Here's when two billion are mentioned for the Dalmatian Zagora, so at least solve the problem of this 150 million to solve the sewerage. agglomeration, for example in Sinjo, so our feces don't go to our Cetina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1356	We are now going to discuss Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, finally, respected counterpart Tomislav Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1357	Here is the final on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, which was formed yesterday, in which seven MPs and a representative from three parties and an independent representative, we will naturally vote against this government as a club. We believe that the government, as I have already said, is recycled in the sense that it is mostly the same known people with a few refreshments, we believe that this programme is mostly, not in all things, because some things are as progressive and should be praised in this programme if they are actually implemented, but some things are indeed being repeated, such as the Immunological Institute, such as the National Children's Hospital in Blat, as is a low-carbon strategy I've been hearing about for at least 3 years now, means that things that have not been realised and transferred from mandate to mandate, so that we don't expect, even in this sense, to be realised by this government, if they are realised, none happier than we are, none happier than the citizens of this country, because we do not believe, however, that this kind of government will really get caught up with things like the development model of Croatia that should be changed and that are written in the programme but not enough. So I'll repeat, more resistant tourism to external shocks, it won't be a more resilient economy unless the share of tourism in the same economy is reduced. There is no fully resistant tourism, it may become more resilient and more resilient, somewhat less resilient, but we cannot have a situation that almost 20%, almost 1/5 GDP depends on tourism with all these external shocks and threats that will unfortunately be more and more in the 21st century. From that perspective, I would also like to thank all the candidates for ministers and mandates for doing a good part of this parliamentary debate and listening in their seats, perhaps even more than parliamentary representatives at some point. We will, as I said, be an opposition and we will be a fierce opposition and we will wait for who tense come I will not say guns, but we will wait tensely for all the affairs that we believe will be produced by this government because yet I think it is hard to expect that, given the previous experience, but also all the good that will come from the government, we will have our own proposals, our own legislative initiatives, we will give amendments, we will see already in the Law on the restoration of Zagreb and the environment as soon as the bill is proposed, how many of those 400 comments in the public debate will be adopted and put into a new bill that will be found at the next week's first reading, and in that sense we will have a truly constructive dialogue, and in this sense we will not have these incursions and what we have today, stopping parliamentary advocates speaking by the mandates. I can play that game, I'm okay with it if we agree to go into it, I don't think it's if we agree that it's the rules, that it's the rules, I don't think it's unacceptable because today we're saying we're crying for the chairman's protection to protect us, no, what I want to protect the chairman is the rise of this distinguished home and the Croatian Parliament. We are all elected here, we represent different groups of ideological citizens, but we are all here and geographically and ideologically, but we are all given a mandate here and we expect to be respected in that sense. And from that perspective, we, of course, are willing to respect if we see that our respect and, of course, all the ministers in the future government are trusted, and then in that sense, I believe the future prime minister. However, if we see that every opposition proposal will be rejected only because the ruling majority has not remembered it before then you cannot expect us to have dialogue or to be constructive, it takes two sides to dialogue, so the two sides should be for dialogue, if the ruling majority and if the government will really be open to dialogue, but not declaratively. We want to respect voters, and then we see how voters are respected and who have elected MPs to this assembly, but if the works show up, then we will also show it to the works of our side. From that perspective, thank you to everyone who participated in the parliamentary debate, in this debate all day long, thank you to all the candidates once again for listening to all this stuff. The government will obviously be voted on, I have no doubt about it and from that perspective if at least 30% of some good things in this programme, and there are, are implemented I think it will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1358	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Parties with the name and last name, Smart and Glass. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1359	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's to all of us for holding out this long. Today we have therefore commented on the government programme, participated in the debate and in our proposals, with criticism I hope constructive, but we also talked about Croatia's vision as we see it in the near future. We see it as a country where we must give priority to science and expertise, ahead of conspiracy theory, pseudoscience and charlatanism. We see it as a country where innovation, entrepreneurship are given the advantage to spread and create trust and respect between workers and entrepreneurs. Workers and entrepreneurs are not enemies. We must invest everything in the development and creation of new wealth while keeping an eye on the weakest, most needed. That can be done, one doesn't rule out the other. That's how the best countries of the world do it. We need to reform the whole country, and we need to start with education. We need to reform that started focusing on the basic settings of full curricula reforms and awaken the enthusiasm of teachers, parents and society as a whole. We need to cut taxes and taxes to attract young, ambitious and professional people to return to Croatia, bring their friends here and create a new Croatia. We have a lot more to do, but here's what I'm asking you to do. Let's show you by example that we're starting to change, too, so the citizens can see where we're going, to join us. Here on behalf of the club I say we will continue the political centre. We will never stop inviting all good and well-meaning people to join us and build together with us. Croatia will one day become a centre of knowledge, a centre of dialogue, a centre of tolerance, a center of creativity, a centre of healthy food, a centre of pure nature, excellence, a centre of good life for all its citizens. Unfortunately, here's the program, and we don't feel this government, so we don't see that we're going towards that kind of Croatia, and that's why we won't support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1360	And finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club is finally, a respected colleague, Brano Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1361	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to say a few more thoughts on behalf of the club. First of all, I would like to stress that the election cycle is over, that the election campaign is over. That in the July 5th elections, Croatian citizens, Croatian people, Croatian voters trusted Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ for the second time. We are not absolute winners, we are relative winners and together with our coalition partners, for the second time, we form a Croatian government. So I have to say that I find Mr. Tomašević's strange observation that this is just a recycled government. Mr. Tomasevic, that it is the same and that it has not been changed has the legitimacy it confirmed 15 days ago. And I don't know, it'd be weird if she wasn't like this, and if she wasn't like this, it means HDZ didn't win the election, so get along a little bit with your thinking. You stand up to yourself, it can't be a government that's different than it is. It could have been updated with 1, 2 or 3, 4 names, but if it were the same, and not recycled again, it would have a legitimacy that could only be obtained in parliamentary elections. And Mr. Zekanovic is talking about a hypocrite who, for the second time in a row, gets the trust of Croatian citizens. The one who only saw this assembly because HDZ put it on its list, only because of it. That assembly wouldn't have seen it, and the question was he was here today if we hadn't, we, we HDZ four years ago. She didn't put it on her IX list. The electoral unit is not naive to the Croatian people, the voters are not naive. In democracy, voters are the Supreme Arbitrator, and they said they believed HDZ and that all your criticisms, all your lunches, all yours, all your attacks, insults often, were not founded because they were weighing on July 5th between what you say and what we did and what we bear witness first, raised their hand and rounded the HDZ. And I just expected you to admit it today, and today I have testified that Mr. Bauk wants us a brotherly war, and I want you to have the brotherhood and unity of Mr. Bauk because you're going to need it, you've already had a fight, there's already a war in the SDP and you're worried about your concerns, and we're going to have our obligations that we've defined today with this program executed and realised and your mouth is full of chips. The whole day of opposition and Mr. Skoro is saying that this assembly is a Swedish table. And, Mr. Vice President HS, the first chip in this assembly has already happened, you know, not only on this side, but on this side of the left Croatian Parliament. That chip may not be much of a bet, but it's for example to Mrs. Devereaux. Marianne Puljak, Mrs. Poulak. Dalia Oreshkovic, made it possible in the next 4 years. 150 thousand kuna, that's not much, because that transfer from the list is Mrs. Restart's. Anka Mrak-Taritash entered another club and made it possible for Mrs. The puljak becomes president of a new club, and you're looking for the culprits on the right. When we are, when we first look at ourselves and sweep at our doorstep and at our own door, then throw in front of others. We don't mind her being Mrs. Devereaux. Anka Mrak-Taritash went to another club, it's her right, don't mind, but don't tell HDZ now about something that doesn't even come to her mind. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I've been expecting, I have to say, that today there will be more respect for the electoral winner, but [[Intruder: Thank you]] There will be a time to show ourselves how much we truly deserve [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]] the trust of Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1362	We have, we have 3, 3 replicas...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1363	I'm sorry to have to notice that Mr. Hrebak is He was on your list, and he's not at your club. [[Intruder: Ma'am]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1364	Comrade Oreskovic, please sit down, receive a warning and behave rudely and please do not do this, there is order, you could have called as well as other colleagues and colleagues. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1365	The Honorable President of the Assembly, so... 238. Dear counterpart Bačić, you must come up with a new story, a new one because the list I wore, a list, a coalition list of the Croatian National Movement of Sovereigns, won 22,000 votes, I had 5,000 votes and I proved that I could do without HDZ, and you would win zero votes without HDZ, and you know it. So, things are extremely accurate and I congratulate Mr. Milorad once again. And Mr. Andrey at the coalition. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1366	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're aware of that yourself. Let's move on, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1367	I'll risk my warning, Art. 29th, which speaks of clubs, 2 independent representatives from the minority club have moved to the HNS Club and made it possible for Mr. Stromar to get 150 000 kuna, is that the same token? Well, it's possible that Mrs. Devereaux might be too. Dark-Taritash moves either to them or already president of the club, I apologize, whoever he is, someone's the club president. And as for the brother-in-law war, I only said that fighting HDZ corruption is a brother-in-law war. Thank you for your wishes for brotherhood and unity, we don't need unity, we're not a party. One... [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Bauk]] But we need the brotherhood... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Agreement: Comrade Bauk]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1368	Comrade Bauk, please sit down, this has been a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part and you deserve a warning, as an experienced representative you have done very knowingly and deliberately. Now it's time for a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1369	Dear President HS, Mr. Bacic hurt 238, didn't talk about the subject, so the topic was completely different, Mr. Bacic spoke beyond the subject of how he sees or doesn't see anyone. I just want to point out I've been in GLAS and I've been in an ex-con and I've been in this club, and the club I'm going to go to was my will which club I'm going to be in, as well as any other party who's in some kind of party. Therefore, Mr. Bacic [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] You missed [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] All football. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1370	Thank you very much. It wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Vidovic-Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1371	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, you could do it in a far nicer and more normal tone of speech, not yelling at Mrs. MP, it's a demeaning representative of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1372	My colleagues Vidović Kristo, first of all, would like to ask you to put on a mask because all the other representatives have a mask, and that is also the recommendation of the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Croatian Medical Assembly. You asked me this one, and here I was, in the meantime, checking it out, so I saw that the professional and competent services involved recommend wearing a mask in closed spaces because it reduces by 30% the possibility of transferring the disease. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1373	Depending on the expert you're asking, they're different epidemiologists, they're different directions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1374	Don't speak from the scene until I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1375	I'm the one who called in a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1376	Okay, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Your colleague, Fabianic, have you called? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, too. Someone, somebody's got to turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1377	Well, I also think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure because this point was tied to the government's programme, therefore, my colleague Bacic did not consider himself to be a part of the agenda. The election results were who they were, but today is not the topic. But otherwise, when one election is over, the other one starts right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1378	It wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I won't give you a warning, you're new to the Parliament, so we won't. We will now hear from Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who speaks on behalf of the promoter. Here's your honorary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1379	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I've got a 30-minute exposure here, but I'll spare you that. I think it's okay. Appreciated representatives and MPs, primarily those who have given us support during the day, support for the programme and support for people who will be part of the new Croatian government. Thank you also to those who have expressed criticism in their presentations, expressed disagreement, expressed different attitudes, different desires and plans for Croatia's future. I respect that. However, we also respect, and that is clear to all of us who are here and the will of Croatian citizens. On July 5th there were elections for the Croatian Parliament and in these elections we all received a certain degree of support from Croatian voters, some a little more, some a little less. And in the campaign we ran different strategies, said different things tried to present our programs. Some went on or were so bold that they conditioned who would be in some other parties, that is the experience we saw five years ago that led to the collapse of the Government in 2015 and 2016. It is a pity that on the Croatian political scene many actors did not extract certain messages from this poor experience, from the experience that led to the destabilising of the Croatian political scene, caused the only extraordinary elections. We've done everything we can to keep this scenario from happening again, so it doesn't happen again. Now these elections came from actors who wanted to watch such a scenario again, I guess it was their political choice, lack of experience, not knowing how political parties work, leading coalitions, leading parliamentary majority and ultimately respecting authority in political parties. I repeat once again, it's not good, it wouldn't go away, it'll never go through in the future I'm sure because there are some lessons we've learned from such practices and that's where we differ. We have opened the parliamentary majority with the people we are sure to implement the programme we agreed on. Maybe with some of our partners we don't necessarily have all the same world view positions, world view positions, maybe in some theoretical context with some who will be in opposition next year we have some other closeness. But that's not the only criterion, the criterion is rationality, the criteria are messages, the criteria are relations between parties and respecting structures. That's what I'm saying so that there won't be any dilemmas here why the coalition is with those we've worked with, which we know well and respect and with whom I'm sure we'll realize the program that we presented today, whether it's 76 or 150 theoretically. And 76 is enough when there is cohesion, when there is functionality and when there is a desire to work for Croatia. It is a pity that much debate has gone to some abstract theoretical story about some chips, a very ugly name for representatives who have received the trust of Croatian citizens. HDZ hasn't spoken to any of you 75 who will vote against, you know that very well. None of you have spoken to me, and no one else has had a mandate to talk to any of you, and it needs to be publicized, and he needs to know. That some of you leaders of these coalition parties were not prepared to come to even informal coffee after the election, not because we would propose or your support but to say the challenge is the situation in the Republic of Croatia, the economic, financial, political, security, there are many decisions that we will have to make in Croatia, the European dimension of our policy which is also a Croatian policy, we will talk about it in more detail next week, you did not accept it. That surprised me a lot. It didn't surprise me because it hit some of my vanity not to talk about it, but I think that either you didn't understand how we wanted to function or you had a prioritization of exclusive attitudes. Both are possible, and neither is good. In any case, the goal ahead of us is to work on a political programme that is no longer just HDZ, it is a programme for us and our political partners, the entire parliamentary majority, a programme that affects everything that is important for us and important for Croatia for the next four years, important political, important economic, important financial, important development. We have an additional lever that we have fought for, I will remind the Croatian public that after 5 July, so after the election, we had two key moments that are related to our European pathway. One is that we have entered the European Course Mechanism two, I see that for many representatives today there has been a chance that a strategy for introducing the euro as our currency is almost on the agenda. That day will come. We are doing so on the basis of the 2018 strategy, we are doing so on the basis of the Treaty of Accession, on the basis of the referendum on which this Treaty is confirmed, based on the ratification of this Treaty in the Croatian Parliament. And those of you who want a referendum can ask for it, we can discuss it, but legally, things are clear. The parliament ratified it, and Croatian voters confirmed it. The second thing is the EU Council that has been sufficient, I must say, more demanding, more demanding, more intense, more sensitive than our five-day session, which, thanks to our government's efforts, has enabled the financial leverage of 22 billion euros for the next 4th and the next 7 years, respectively. We've made a step that further enhances our maneuvering space in an unprecedented situation. In the situation of Covida-19 which changed the world, Europe and Croatia, in particular in health and economic terms. We have tools to use. We have more experience than we had four years ago. We have people and services in the system that are now more playful, more stalking, who understand priorities and know what to do. We will seek to justify great trust and, as I said on the election night, without any triumphalism, without any desire to assess our success as much greater than the success of all of you who received the mandate from Croatian citizens, but vice versa, to experience this trust as a huge commitment. Obligation and opportunity for us, but for the entire Croatian people and all our citizens, here in Croatia and Croatia outside Croatia to do positive things for our country. We're not taking it out on any previous government. We can only compare the work of our second government to this first one. And that's how we're gonna do it for the next four years. We'll try our best, our best, our best, our best, our best, our best, our best, our best, our best. With that motive with which man is engaged in public work because here each of us is voluntarily. We could all do something else, less exposed, less risky, less putting ourselves on a tray to anyone to tell us whatever he wanted, good or bad. That's what we do because we have some motive. Motive of working for the general good, motive for work for Croatia, which is independent, independent for only 30 years. Motive to repay those who gave everything for Croatia to Croatian defenders, to those who died for Croatian freedom. We're going to mark the 25th anniversary of the military-raid operation Storm in just a few days. Without them, we wouldn't be here. Without them, there may be no free, independent and internationally recognised Croatia. And we will work for them in the years ahead. In this process I expect us to try to seek agreement where we are able to get to it. As Government, we will propose a number of laws. Here, I can say, we'll try to be more open to opposition proposals. Maybe try to create a different methodology, looking for a consensus on important issues. One such law tomorrow will have the government on the agenda at 13 o'clock, it is the Law on the restoration of the city of Zagreb on the devastating earthquake of 22 March. We will try to find funds to restore the city, the capital of Croatia, from the damage of 11.5 billion euros. We've done enough already, we'll need more. It's a process we're going to live with, I hope, a little longer than with Covid-19. In any case, we appreciate the support of Croatian citizens, we appreciate the support of those MPs who will vote in favour of this government tonight. I understand those who won't, we respect it, and our wish is for Croatia to look better in 4 years than it looks today, as it certainly looks better today than it did in 2016. This is the basic motive we have and for which we will work, which is the well-being of all Croatian citizens and all Croats living outside Croatia. I thank you and look forward to working together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1380	We have 7 replicas, the first is the esteemed colleague Tomašević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1381	Yeah, with a mask. So I agree with you that this expression is embarrassing, but you know who called it, who forged it, your coalition partner and in the city of Zagreb and here in the Parliament, and thanks to these chips you held the government in the last term, so much about it. As for coming in in four eyes, I don't know why you were so inflexible that you didn't let the representatives of the opposition be together at one meeting because I don't see what you can tell us and that other colleagues can't hear it and that we have an answer for you, and also that other colleagues in the opposition can't hear it. So there wouldn't be an interpretation of who was speaking at that meeting on the one hand and on the other. As far as respect is concerned, that you did it for the respect of our voters, you showed it today when you interrupted me, you showed it in Pantovack, when you said we were screaming in front of the Croatian Parliament. I wish you'd yelled at Milan Bandic in the last four years. And so did the political points. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Just like we used to collect on the earthquake. [[Invasion: I thank my colleague Tomašević.]] What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1382	Time's up Well, don't make me do it now. [[Intruder: Timed out.]] Shout, come on, please sit down. [[Intruder: Oke.]] You can't talk anymore. [[No, it's okay, so here we go.]] So please, let's stick to order, procedure. Now you're talking about order and procedure and you're breaking it. Please stick to the line. That's all I ask of you, nothing else. Dear fellow Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1383	Prime Minister Plenkovic, you replied this morning that the minimum wage was raised in your term. I asked you a question when you were going to exactly raise the minimum wage, we realized, is, that it would be by the end of this term. I only hope that it is clear that the minimum salary of 4250 kn cannot satisfy anyone at this time in Croatia as some promise in the next 4 years for those who live in these minimum salaries, and even workers in this Chamber who work in the cafeteria and in other jobs, live on that salary from that salary in Croatia cannot live. This whole, this government plan rests on those 22 billion Euros that we stick to as a drunk float, but I hope this government understands that it expects too much of these funds and that not only are they not enough but the conditions of their spending are such that it does not allow us to keep Shipbuilding and other industrial branches. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1384	Thank you. Dear colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1385	Dear current and soon future Prime Minister, I point out that corruption is still the main monster of this country and of our society. It's spreading faster than the crown, and it's more devastating than the earthquake. During today's debate, we have heard nothing about your government's programme to build independent institutions that will be able to exercise effective control of government. I'm sorry that you weren't here when I suggested that the parliamentary majority, together with the opposition, consider my strategy to combat corruption, I'm sorry that you weren't here when I asked you whether you were going to continue to undermine the independence of different state bodies and euthanize them as you did with the commission. When will you provide them with the necessary documentation to determine if there was still conflict interest in the members of your past and obviously the future government? If you're looking for the constructiveity of the opposition, you have nothing to summon them to individual ones. meetings, all discussions must be held in this home. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1386	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1387	Thank you. Here I was also going to comment on these informal coffees, and you said that you wanted to show how you were going to work, but these informal coffees recently got you into a Borg affair, so at the time of the assembly, it was actually inappropriate to call, invite and seek cooperation. But let's just say that we got something wrong, that we got that call wrong, so if you're a man of dialogue, that means that this dialogue can continue, that you're going to listen to some suggestions and some of those ideas from the opposition and accept them, and that's how we expect you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1388	Replication response. Here you go. No, you can't answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1389	Dear Representative Puljak, you see the crisis in Agrokor I look at it slightly different than you do, I look at it in a way that our government at that time saved the Croatian economy, our financial system, our OPGs, employees and the largest company, all its components, all its suppliers. There were no informal coffees where someone here would like to do something for themselves, Agrokor fell to our table without us knowing he would come to us and we found the solution to Europe's largest restructuring then. And that's why I'm going to, I've only answered to resolutely and firmly reject your thesis, which is not just you, but many others. There are independent institutions in Croatia that watch whether something was right or wrong, first of all DORH The DORH said everything about it, and I don't accept that thesis, and I'm going to stand up to you every time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1390	Thank you. Here you go, pal Fabianic. It's your turn. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1391	Dear Prime Minister, I know about you, the offer of these talks very closely. It is generally in politics that when you call on colleagues from other parties to send at least a written invitation, to write a promotion that is wanted to talk about, and afterwards, a statement also goes to the press to agree and declare to the public what we agree or disagree on. It's usually a political oscillator. Of course, it can be different, but then you can expect a different answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1392	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1393	Your Honor, I don't know where you've gone through these protocols to send memos, formal meetings, what you're saying, and what many of you are saying is simply not true. If I want to talk to Emmanuel Macron, I'm not sending him a letter of beauty written in order to be heard, if I'm not sending her a memo like you would expect, don't laugh, no, it's not a fellow Voicer funny, it's funny your thesis, your thesis is funny and sad in fact. Like, who are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? And among other things, I didn't invite you to a meeting. Just called a few of your group leaders who lost the election, all of you who lost the election, I called one by one to talk. Some of you reacted that they would not come and were not invited. So that circus you created was funny to me, unnecessary, I had nothing to hide from you I wanted to consult, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1394	Thank you. My colleague Oreskovic, you look very nice with that stick, but it is no use to you because it is not procedurally possible. So you can't replicate anymore. Comrade Petrov, here you go. Replica, what? My colleague Petrov, you called in the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1395	I noticed that my colleague had contacted me before, so I was.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1396	My colleague can't answer because she cracked her three replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1397	Okay, sorry. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, I am pleased that you respect the will of the voters who went to the elections. I wish you'd respected those who stayed home out of fear, and didn't allow for an electronic and correspondence vote. I guess you know the reasons, but right in front of you, you have four years to do it. Also in your address I noticed certain cognitive discrepancies about 2016 even though you were then the first violin within the HDZ party meeting, remember that one person can't be, the state can't be the hostage of one person, and yet these differences you forgot. And don't be nervous, we'll follow the government's work, we'll be constructive, we'll give you suggestions, we expect you to respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1398	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1399	Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov, we've had the opportunity to cooperate for several months, we've met enough and I suggest you keep your professional approach in your basic profession, in your basic profession, and not in this, especially us. I think we understand each other well and you understand well, and that's a good thing to apologize for because that's very good. As for the election and your cry for those who didn't vote, we all had the same conditions in these elections, we all had the same chances, everyone who went to the elections could have, say, instead of trusting the SDP they could've given you, but they didn't. You got as much as you got. The people said their "Vox Populi, vox dei", we live with this video of the state of mood of Croatian voters on July 5th, make peace with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1400	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1401	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, the President of the Parliament was sexually demeaning the esteemed representative Oreshkovic because he commented that he had a nice look with a stick in his hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1402	If I hurt my colleague Oreshkovic, I apologize to her, but my intentions really weren't sexist. Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1403	Dear President of the Parliament. He's been injured. 238, the distinguished Mr. Plenkovic apparently found himself called around my professional orientation although cognitive dysonance, you know Mr. Plenkovic is also used in the usual speech not only in some offices. But I wouldn't want you to cry. I'm not crying about the election, I think the voter's will should be respected, but also the 46% is not 100%, do 100%, respect the voter's will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1404	My colleague Peter's time is up. So, a colleague of Raspoudic, by which his colleague Petrov broke his Rules of Procedure, since you appear during his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1405	Dear President of the Parliament. He was not violated by his colleague Petrov, he was injured. 231st, at least a dozen MPs on my left are in my class. The 231st interfered with the prominent representative Selak Rapudic while presenting her injury to the Rules of Procedure as they are now distracting me. So, I appreciate you laughing sweetly at the boss's jokes, but that party laugh while the MP exposes something to you. You've shown enough vigilance tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1406	Dear Raspadić, Art. 231. "The President gives representatives a word in order to which they have applied. Regardless of the order, the MP can get his word when he wants to replicate only when he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The speaker can only warn or interrupt the speaker. The president is concerned that the speaker should not be distracted or prevented from speaking."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1407	That one. You can distract her, you can distract her, not this kind of lip smile.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1408	.../Speakers speak at the same time./...at the exact moment something happened, so not later, it can't be done later. Let's move on, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1409	I'm sorry, but you've reached an item that fully justifys my violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you can't apologize to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1410	Well, I'm saying it, but there's been no injury of that kind. So, I've read you what that member says, but these types of injuries were not... /The speakers speak at the same time./... You felt some kind of interference, as far as Madame's representative is concerned, but it didn't happen, it didn't happen. You have there perhaps more pronounced senses of me others. No one else noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1411	No, no, it was a loud distraction of the presentation of the distinguished representative Selak Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1412	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1413	Dear President Jandrokovic, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Stick to the Rules of Procedure, half the assembly laughs, and you clap to them. You are the president of the Croatian Parliament and the opposition and most of it, you only favor the majority here because you have somehow been encouraged. But know, no one's yelling. You allow here... /The speaker is disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1414	Comrade Bull, please sit down. Now let's slowly stand on the ball please let's have more if I'm not mistaken, colleague Zekanovic, you've been in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Right? No, nothing. Then we still have a colleague, Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1415	Well, obviously I look so good with that stick that I've been holding her for half an hour. I would like to say that we have all hurt the Rules of Procedure so much that at one point we began to joke about a topic that is extremely serious. Mr President-in-Office of the Government. Article 23 24. The government law is what you violated when the Borg group happened. There's no informal task force, that's what the DORH interpreted along with the SCOTT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1416	Comrade Oreskovic, look, you're replicating instead of talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and that's a violation of your Rules of Procedure. I've already given you one warning now I won't. Now let's go to the last line, it's a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1417	Dear Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic in Sibenik has a neighborhood called Šubicevic, there are plenty of skyscrapers, in one skyscraper Mr. Milosevic grew up near me. We went to the same school, we were buying food at the same store, we say in the same store, he's playing basketball at the special, I was playing at the black playground and then there's an election law where he can come into the Croatian Parliament and become vice president because he's at some point enrolled as a Serb. It doesn't matter his attitude towards the Homeland War, towards the creation of the Croatian state, and that's the problem, because you were able to seize 85 MPs wherever you wanted. and you have seized national minorities. [[Intruder: I thank Mr. Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1418	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1419	Dear Representative Zekanovic, I've been listening to you for a long time, but today I have to admit that you are going beyond your usual framework. You create your performances an atmosphere that is abnormal for 2020, which is wrong, which shows a fundamental ignorance of contemporary Croatian political history, our Constitution, our legal, our political gains. I understand you politically even though you did not act that way when Ivana Maletic first brought you to the European Parliament for a study visit and we sat together. When we took you into the coalition and you didn't seem as you are now, you evaluated, but you didn't evaluate in the right direction. For you it is not good, for the atmosphere in society is not good, for respecting the rights of minorities and our non-Croatian citizens, and Croatian citizens. I'm appealing to you to stop that. You're sending a bad message. a message that is not during 2020, nor before. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1420	Thank you. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1421	Therefore, Article 238 is obvious. Don't suggest I said something I didn't say. I have nothing against the Serb national minority, regardless of what members of the Serb national minority have destroyed, destroyed Croatia 25 years ago, so I have nothing against it, but I have against the electoral law. That's the problem. And don't put words in my mouth I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1422	My colleague Zekanovic, a colleague of Zekanovic, has now broken the Rules of Procedure again, because this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica and you get a warning and I am concluding the debate now. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to a vote of confidence with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by the majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure have been laid down to vote on the government's trust as a whole. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that most of the votes of all MPs show confidence in the government, 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for the Croatian Parliament to show confidence to the president and members of the government of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Let's move it to another one. Who is it? You counted up well, didn't you? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 135 MPs voted. I find that with 76 votes in favour and 59 votes against the voice of confidence to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, vice presidents, ministers and ministers. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, and wish them successful and effective work. [[Applause.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the president and members of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions have been met for the president and the members of the government to make a solemn oath. Article 120 The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the President pronounces the text of the oath, and afterwards by the name of the members of the Government who are standing up and saying the oath. The text of the oath reads: “I swear that I will be consciously and honorably acting as a member of the Government, respecting the Constitution, laws and legal order, and upholding all progress made by the Republic of Croatia.” Andrej Plenkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1423	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1424	Congratulations. Tomo Medved, Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1425	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1426	Congratulations to Minister Bear. Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1427	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1428	Congratulations to you, too. Zdravko Maric, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1429	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1430	Congratulations. Boris Milosevic, Deputy Prime Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1431	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1432	Congratulations to you, too. Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1433	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1434	Congratulations. Darko Horvat, minister of spatial planning, construction and state property. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1435	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1436	Congratulations. Gordan Grlic Radman, foreign and European affairs minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1437	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1438	Congratulations. - Give it up. - Give it up. Mario Banozic, defence minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1439	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1440	Congratulations. Marija Vukkovic, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1441	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1442	Congratulations. Natasa Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1443	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1444	Congratulations. Tomislav Coric, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1445	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1446	Congratulations. Nikolina Brnjac, Minister of Tourism and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1447	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1448	Congratulations to you, too. Josip Aladrovic, minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1449	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1450	Congratulations. Willy Beros, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1451	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1452	Congratulations. Nina Obuljen Koržinek, Minister of Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1453	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1454	Congratulations. Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1455	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1456	Congratulations to you, too. Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica will swear when conditions are created for this. Once again, I congratulate the Prime Minister and the members of the new government and wish you much success in your future work on the well-being of our country and the entire Croatian people. Thank you very much. Now we'll take a break, please give some more attention to the session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, and the break will take 10 minutes. [[Applause]] It is important because the two deputies who become ministers put their mandate on hold, and we will then vote their replacements, MP Anju Simprag and representative Goran Ivanovic, who will then take the oath. So I'm asking you in 10 minutes, we're all in our seats. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1458	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 2nd session held on 23 July 2020 discussed the written request by MP Boris Milosevic that since 23 July 2020, he had informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of the Deputy Prime Minister who is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision. Nine. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. SDSS pursuant to Article. The 42nd century is 6th century. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Anja Simprag as deputy representative Boris Milosevic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Boris Milosevic's representative mandate as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Anja Simpraga. Following the above mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament by virtue of Article. 9, 11 and 42. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Art. 9th century 2nd and 116th. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of the representative's office and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP. On July 23rd, 2020, the stay of MP Boris Milosevic's term of office begins, and the parliamentary office of 23 July 2020 begins to be held by deputy representative Anja Simprag. The second, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, held at the 2nd session held on 23 July 2020, discussed the written request of representative Natasa Tramišak of 23 July 2020, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the purposes of the conduct of the minister who is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision. Nine. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. HDZ in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. No. 42st century 2. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Mr Goran Ivanovic as deputy representative of Natasa Tramišak. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the commencement of the parliamentary term of Natasa Tramišak as well as the conditions for the start of acting as her deputy, Goran Ivanovic. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 9, 11 and 42. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of acting as deputy MPs, starting on 23 July 2020, the peaceful term of representative Natasa Tramišak, acting on 23 July 2020, starts acting as deputy MPs Mr. Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1459	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and I am voting on the proposal for a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that out of 118 votes 114 for and 4 abstentions, decisions have been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made these decisions, we move on to making an oath of counsel. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. I will read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1460	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1461	Representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1462	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-23-0.u1463	Congratulations to MPs and MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them a lot of success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. We're going to the last thing today, it's the election of the Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee. Since yesterday we did not elect the Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, we will now do so on the basis of an inter-party agreement, a proposal has been submitted to elect MP Bojan Glavasevic as Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and voting on the proposal to elect Bojan Glavasevic as Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the decision made and congratulate the Vice-President of the Board, Bojan Glavasevic, on the election and wish him success in his future work. Just a notice, the government will have a session tomorrow at which one of the laws that will be sent to the Croatian Parliament will be the Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake, and I would like to ask another president of the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning to convene a meeting of the Committee on Monday. ... In two afternoons, well, you will inform members and members, as well as the Legislative Committee to call a session on Monday so that we can discuss that point on Tuesday. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll start work Tuesday at 9:30, of course there'll be free club talk at 1:00. I also ask the Committee on European Affairs to hold a meeting at the latest on Tuesday, and I'm sorry I said wrongly, Tuesday at 9:30, so I apologize that the start of the session is so that the free speech will be at the beginning of the session and then we will go with the law that I mentioned. As for Wednesday, we will therefore be doing reports by the Prime Minister on the meeting of the European Council, so I ask the Committee on European Affairs to hold its session by Tuesday. And I also announced on Thursday there will be a package of finance laws and confirmation of some international contracts, which is the competent Committee on Finance and the state budget which I also ask to hold by Wednesday. That's all. I thank you all for today's work and all the debates, and I'll see you Tuesday. MEETING Interrupted at 11:24 p.m. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. We will begin as every time at the beginning of the working week of the plenary session with free speeches with the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives. I would like to inform you that we had a session of the Presidency, as the most important conclusion is the recommendation of the Bureau unanimous to all MPs and MPs to wear masks during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, since this is how we protect the health of colleagues and colleagues, and I would like to ask that we follow these recommendations from the Presidency. The only exception will be the speech that will go from this pay phone on behalf of the clubs and representatives of the government, for this reason we have also put this protective plexiglas in order to better meet epidemiological standards and adhere to what the profession recommendations are. Now we're going to start discussing and taking the club stand. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Željko Sačić. Here you go.
