ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9669	Now let's go with the free speech. We have four candidates reported. The first is Veljko Kajtazi. We have a free speech. Veliko Kajtazi's statement of view of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. And then after the free speech, it's a break by 2:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9670	Dear colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow for the 11th time in the Republic of Croatia, we mark the World Day of Roma Language, thanks to the Croatian Parliament's institution as the first parliament to support this initiative in 2012. After that, our joint successes on the World Roma Language Day 2015 on our initiative were recognised by UNESCO. Many Roma and not Roma across Europe have been seen in our work, so today the World Roma Day is marked in all countries of Europe with a significant share of Roma in the population in the Western Balkan countries. We use the World Day of Roma Language to celebrate the main point of Roma culture, which is precisely the richness of the Roma language that today is experiencing and numerous changes in exposure to the influence of other languages, and young Roma are increasingly not familiar with the Roma language. In order to strengthen the position of the Roma language, its preservation, but generally the education of Roma and the education of the majority people about the Roma. This year, along with the problem of the coronary virus pandemic, we mark this important date in Zagreb and events in Osijek-Baranja County. A series of events we called Roma Culture Days after the celebration in Zagreb continues the opening of the exhibition 1000 years of Roma immigration at the Ethnological Centre of Baranja Heritage in Bela Manastir. The day after, on November 6th, at 11 p.m., the discovery of sculpture was announced in the park on November 5th in Bela Manastir, and at 17 p.m. the Tribunes on Roma Culture Day and the World Roma Language Day in Belisce. Finally, November 7th promotion of the film And we have defended Croatia, Roma in the Homeland War in Valpovo we are closing this year's programme. I am proud of this for respect and assistance, not only of the Parliament, and fellow parliamentary representatives, government and all of our institutions, but because this initiative has come to life among the Roma people, which is the greatest recognition for what we have done in Croatia. What I am particularly proud of when we talk about the World Day of the Roma language is that my fellow parliamentarians were unanimous when on May 25, 2012, there was a vote on the declaration decision, and a reception was held with the president and vice president of the Parliament. In this context, November 5th is particularly important and part of the reason why Roma in Croatia are no longer mentioned only in the context of social, eczema and problems. When the Roma community is mentioned today, it is meant by language, cultural identity, literary works and art. We are also talking about our parks in the centre of Zagreb, in Belište, Kutina, Belogo Manastir and Ludbreg, the first Roma Roma dictionary from 2011, a graduate study... at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, new... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who recently got out,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the Republic of Croatia, the most beautiful and wealthy in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only in 11 years has the World Roma Language Day entered many institutions, we organized a symposium with a theme such as standardisation and... Roma language, the use of Roma language in information technologies and the position of Roma language within the family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, in 2012, for the first time, a lecture was held in Roma language at the Faculty of Philosophy, and a bilingual record was discovered a year later at the university. Our conclusions and markings were also attended by top state officials, such as the prime ministers, presidents and presidents of the Parliament, ministers, my fellow parliamentarians and heads of institutions, such as the HAZU and vice president of the university. We also award a reward every year for life's work. The events of the World Day of the Roma language are regularly attended by Roma from abroad, including many linguists, writers, sociologists, teachers, historians and helpers in teaching. This year we also made a request to all schools in Croatia to take five minutes of their time tomorrow and introduce students to this topic. I hope that schools, especially those in which there are Roma children, will respond to the call and at least one day a year talk about the Roma language in a positive context. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all Roma, wherever they may be, the World Roma Day and to thank everyone once again for their help and cooperation so far. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9680	The next statement of view is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9681	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday in the course of the current hour, the election in America and the constant crown of the crisis, one tragic news went through under the radar. From the injuries sustained on the night from October 24th to October 25th, a young man died yesterday. That young man's name was Domagoj, the place of Virovitica's shop. My Virovitica-Podrava County. A young man passed away, the most valuable thing society has. The life of 18 years has been extinguished. For what? For beating up your peers. In the center of Virovitica he found himself in a place where some strange young men played their evil game. The game in public is already called a game of death. The reason, there could be any reason. There's no reason to choose today. These games are not new in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County. That's what happened in Slatina, and that's what the media reported, and we were all disgusted. Fortunately then, but fortunately, there was no fatal outcome. Unfortunately beating up, living in nightclubs and outside them, terrorising, it's the new normal behavior of our young people, but Virovitica-Podravska County is not an isolated case. This happened also in the area of Varazdin County, where the young beat up the elderly, where they brutally beat up a parliamentary representative. The last case from Kaštela is a threat to the public. What I'm wondering is, how long are we gonna watch and keep our mouths shut? There was a shooting at the government and the Parliament by a young person and then we wondered why, and no one gets into the very essence of the problem. No one wonders what's going on with our young people. We're losing young people we expect to be the pillar of our society tomorrow. How many more lives must be lost like this, gentlemen? When do we start working with our young? There's already been countless mentions of civic education, but there's no hearing. How long are we gonna watch and keep quiet? Or even more tragic, how long are we gonna turn our heads like that's not our problem? Young people are a mirror of society, look around you, open your eyes and ask yourself what kind of example you give to young people. When society is healthy, our young ones too will have a healthy example of conduct. It's too late for Domagogya, too late, because there'll never be his dates again, his hanging out, he'll never be able to live up to what he was supposed to be. He left without it being his choice. It's too late for him. But it's not too late for the others, because yesterday it was Domagoy, and tomorrow it could be anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9757	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Bakic, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the last two weeks, first in France and then in Austria, there have been terrible terrorist attacks. Scary not only for his cruelty but also for his motives. We are shocked and deeply saddened by these terrorist acts not only because they were injured and brutally injured by innocent citizens but also because they were in fact direct attacks on our fundamental values. It is therefore necessary and important to send from this place and from this speaker a message of solidarity and support to our citizens, the Republic of France, the Republic of Austria, their governments and parliaments, to all their citizens and citizens. The attacks that have actually occurred are attacks on all of us because the target of these attacks were values that are the foundation of our society, which are freedom, equality, respect for diversity, tolerance, the idea of enlightenment, and finally the idea of republicanism. Now as hard as it is to believe that it would be wrong to respond by reducing anyone's freedoms or new hostilities. If we did so, we would move away from these ideals, of these values because without freedom there is no democracy, without, without individual freedom and without freedom of speech there is no democracy, without equality there is no democracy, as without democracy there is no freedom of speech, there is no freedom of individual, there is no equality. And that is what our fellow Polish and Polish citizens, by example, are now teaching us right now at the very other end of Europe, with their own personal example, have, in their courage, risen in defense of their freedoms, and therefore I also want to express my support from this pay phone, my compassion to all citizens, especially the citizens of Poland. Someone may wonder what we can do, what can small Croatia do to defend freedom and equality? We can. We can do much and not only can we do much but we do, because our solidarity and our support is just proof that the ideas that we're behind are ours, authentically ours, so they're universal, that they're common. They're deeper and bigger than differences, than possible differences, they're part of our identity, and that's why our support is sincere and authentic. I would once again like to send a message of solidarity and compassion to the citizens of France and Austria. That solidarity I think is part of the lesson for ourselves. The defense against division, the enmity, the radicalization will not be found in new divisions and new enmities, nor will we find in deepening the old divisions and hostilities. The only defense we will find is precisely in these ideas and values, in the idea of equality, in the idea of freedom, in the idea of tolerance, respect for diversity, protection of minorities, in the idea of enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9821	The following statement of view on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS representative, Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9822	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, colleagues. So on September 16th, the Law of Reconstruction finally entered into force. Today is about 7 and a half months from the earthquake that was in Zagreb and here we received the first programme of measures to rebuild buildings although the Regulation on the content and technical elements of the project documentation was in public debate until 27 October, although it was due to be adopted on 16 October. But what I want to look back on, I want to look back in a few sentences at that first programme of measures in which, unfortunately for me, I'm telling you honestly, we can only conclude one thing. And that's when we pointed out during the adoption of the law that it was going to be delayed indefinitely, that the reconstruction should have already begun and that obviously it wasn't the government's goal to rebuild it quickly and effectively we were right. We were right, obviously, when we claimed that the renovation of public buildings could begin immediately without a special law, that we had law enforcement and that we could do so, that we didn't even need a programme of measures. We were right, because when you read this first programme of measures in detail, then it is clear from it that the reconstruction of the building of public purposes is going on its own, and it is equally clear from it because of 70 and 87 pages of text only the page and half refer to the renovation of public buildings where they only speak in principle because these buildings belong to 4 classes, to the highest class of importance, they will start with what we read in the program immediately. But absolutely what it is, which can be concluded that all of us who claimed it were right, the equipment of public-purpose buildings could already have started. But what I would also like to point out is that this programme mainly refers to multiple, residential, residential, business, business and family buildings, and from 87 pages, pages 33 to 76, so more than half, are listed in the long-term list of documents, excerpts, labs, evaluations, contracts, confirmations and your vast bureaucratic burden that a request for participation in the renewal could be submitted. When you see the part that talks about works on non-constructive elements, that's what the government has announced that it has secured the funds and that it can start immediately and what people have done, but there is also a commitment to designing embossed repairs. I have to admit, I'm very interested in what it's going to look like to do, say, the elaborate repairs of the roof plane replacements, the ticks and, say, the replacement of the gutters, but alive they've been seen. What, by reading this document, can be concluded, which is that all those who were intending to come to a loss of any hope or to give up their first step and do the job on their own, which is what the minister called them on several occasions. And yet I must stress that any costs have been introduced here, such as certified statements by public notaries, court experts' findings, and instead of special laws and programmes of measures serving to facilitate, speed up and simplify procedures, happened exactly the opposite, the procedures are unnecessarily bureaucratic and difficult. And then we come up with an interesting detail, not to say absurd. The deadlines for the renewal application are due by the end of 2030. So, by the end of 2030, The requirements will be submitted, and these requirements will be processed, and decisions will then be made. That means that somewhere in 2040, 2050, we can see some results. What's worse and what I have to say for the end is that we've once again received a document based on the law, and the law is not enforceable without such documents in which there is no V of any vision, or of any idea of looking into the future, creating a new value from a difficult situation. These are all construction procedures, reconstructions in the simplest and simplest sense, from the new development of the city, from the steps forward on these foundations will not and can't be anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9854	Next statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9855	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian public. Here, I did not plan to report for a free speech today, but I was offered cowardly manipulations, lies, insults that just our fellow parliamentary representative Milorad Pupovac sent to the free-minded democratically elected Croatian patriots sitting in this assembly, and, above all, those outside the parliament of Croatia because all of us are fat, well, unfounded, all of us who love and who have sacrificed ourselves for our country, Croatia has declared to the national traitors, confounders, ignorants and actually opposers of democracy in the Republic. Well, I think it's really incomprehensible that we have in 2020 today. one such rhetoric by representatives of the Serb community in Croatia, Milorad Pupovac, with all of his burdens on his back in recent years, with the burdens of his party SDSS that he dares and actually puts himself in his mouth, as well as the right to deal with honest Croatian responsible patriots, although also with those here in the Assembly, in the Croatian Parliament who have received full legitimacy, legitimacy from Croatian citizens who voted for us. So, this same Milorad Pupovac, without any shame, without any relation to the Croatian victim, is today able to say how surprised he is, imagine, with any strange signs in the Straight Kotars that are placed there. Well, Mr. Pupovac, these signs that you call strange, which are excessive to you, are the witnesses of the victims suffered by the Croatian people, by your brothers and sisters and those who rebelled and raised their hands and weapons to the Republic of Croatia, which are witnesses, these are the stones on, on earth, the piety soft country of the East of Kotar, which is soaked with Croatian blood, and these signs mean those crosses of the Croatians that mark the deaths, innocent Croatian people, defenders and civilians who killed criminals, in the great Serbian aggression on the Republic of Serbia. And you don't admit it today. On the contrary, you're saying that you and your party friends from the SDSS are free traditions that adorn you. So what are the freedom traditions? These are the freedom traditions of your co-founder of SDSS Stanimirović Vojislav, Hadzic, you are a free tradition for us to give to the Croatian people for example of freedom and Serbs in Croatia, you can be ashamed of yourself. Put first the free tradition of at least 10,000 Serbs who have fought and died for freedom of the Croatian state, who have indeed witnessed in reality in their lives exactly their belongings, as you say constitutional patriotism of the constitutional but also witnessed with their lives in defense of the constitutional values of all citizens living in the Republic, unlike you, your brothers, the SDSS who raised the rifle against the Republic of Croatia. And you who today say that the capital of Belgrade and you who a year ago, two say that in Croatia, and although you are in power in the Republic of Croatia created "Endehasia", Fascision, Ustashaisation, today you are able to teach Croatian citizens who point to everything that must never be forgotten, which we must never really overwrite from our collective memory, which is that just the great Serb aggressors you worship today, with the Wolf at the head were the inspirers, the persecutors and in fact potentiated all the evil in the great-Serbian aggression and all the victims that measures in tens of thousands have just caused, and in turn nothing has been done, justice is not satisfied But you'd rest easy. [[Intruder: Time.]] We'd be at peace. in a way that you forget your criminal, war-criminal past [[Intruder: Time.]] The people of the SDSS you belong to may be ashamed of you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9916	The next statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Josip Boris. After this presentation, the break is up to 14 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9917	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here are the free themes, I want to say something since today we had a really good topic, a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on our work, which we once wanted to call a report on the state of the nation. And when we look at it in some other countries, we mostly admire what it looks like in some America or perhaps in some other democratic states, and one attempt by our Prime Minister to show what has been done over the past year, which is what this government has been struggling with in some way, which are the problems standing before this government, which has continued its mandate after 5.7 citizens have made it clear that they want the HDZ still at the head of this country to lead it and to implement the programme for the benefit of all these citizens. Unfortunately, one such debate goes quite wrong because it is obvious that individuals do not hesitate or even think too much about what needs to be said if it is in favour of several political points. There are almost no days here that individuals we know absolutely nothing about, we don't even know the structure of their parties, we don't even know what parties they belong to, hours are in one party, hours are in the other party, so in some platforms, some informal groups, surrounded or joined in some clubs, simply, without visible structures, they teach us lessons about democracy. Democracy is, above all, respect for certain rules and rules of political life. We unfortunately have a situation today that is not a problem for an individual, for whom, I say,... Here in the Parliament, he comes here to the pay phone, insults everyone, that he can falsely say anything that comes to his mind and thus create certain political platforms for himself that he would like to see the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's behind it? We simply as politicians in organised parties, I will tell HDZ that an organised party, clear structures, that now, here, we are going through an internal process, we must again and in these times do what the SDP has done recently, means as clear structures. We have people who choose themselves as president in the living room and come here to teach us what democracy it is, which is the right, in which way the DORH, Supreme Court or anyone else should behave. The simple lack of criteria has led to the fact that we have a situation in this House today. Many have asked for the opportunity to appear from all possible parts of this House. They've been given this opportunity, and you can look at the way it looks today. So everything they wanted to do to make it happen that they had the right to replicate, to have the right to speak, unfortunately all these people, I'm looking down at them where we're sitting, unfortunately unemployed, waiting for someone to sit in that space, there's no one there. It means what we want to achieve with certain spoken words or submitted demands. What is the goal of such policies? It's completely incomprehensible to me today, and yet again, here's another story from a colleague of the Sovereign Club I don't understand. Mr. Zekanovic was with us at the beginning of his previous term in 2016. No one. Not Milorad Pupović, not SDSS, not anyone else. He neatly raised his hand to the government where he was part of the majority and left on the first turn when he realized that he clearly no longer needed such a society, that he could accomplish something himself. What's his reason? Maybe he was able to achieve his political ambitions. But what is the benefit of such representatives? He says today he's the one people look at or see a migrant who can create... etc. So a complete avoidance of situations where the legal authorities that need to worry about it get humiliated so that some advocate would raise himself up. For what? To be important? What are we doing with stories like that? That's the question those people have to answer the same question. We have colleagues who, I say, appear several times a day, tell everyone about democracy. They didn't take the first step of basic democracy. That you were elected legally in some body that exists. We do not know of many members of the Croatian Parliament in which the parties are members at all, and we come to parliamentary bodies and plenary sessions, and we teach lessons to responsible people, parties that have clear structures, which are clearly elected, which are clearly conducted by democracy and that are to be discussed Unfortunately, these people are saying all wrong, they're talking about something they don't have, which they don't know and I'm saying we'd like to be very important. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u9918	Here,... At 2:30, we resume the session. [[You don't understand.]] It's a 13-52-hour meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10684	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. Today on daily work: - Annual Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 128. The Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure will orally present the government's Annual Report. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister's speech on the report may take an hour, but there is no replica to the Prime Minister's speech. Only representatives clubs can participate in the debate, the representative of the club can speak for a maximum of 20 minutes. Following the discussion, the Prime Minister submits a final presentation that may take as long as 20 minutes, and no replica is allowed in the debates. I would now ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, to file a report. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10685	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, this is by many special years in which we face unprecedented challenges. The world has hit the biggest pandemic since World War I. This has caused an economic and social crisis that has not been remembered since World War II. With all this, our capital Zagreb and its surroundings have been hit by the most devastating earthquake in the last 140 years, whose damage has been estimated at 86 billion kuna, which is about 60% of the state budget. Because of this, we face the greatest health, social and economic challenges since the Homeland War. Last year, when I was reporting to you about the government's work, there was no such dramatic and demanding course of events and challenges. But before I look back on the present moment and the direction in which we are taking Croatia, to the state of society and to the priorities of the government in the time ahead, let us briefly remind ourselves of the achievements we are building on so far. They are the starting point of projections for a period ahead of us which remains a lot of uncertainty and challenges. The period from the beginning of our first term to the very beginning of this global crisis has been marked by the government's positive economic results. In the first three years, we have significantly raised the level of social security of our fellow citizens. Thanks to the measures we have taken, the average salaries have been raised by 1.147 kuna and 20% respectively, which has significantly increased the purchasing power of citizens and households, almost 6 times as much as in the government's term of office in '11. - '15. when the average salary is increased by 201 kuna. We have increased the minimum minimum by more than 30% and 754 kuna, which is 3 times more than in the mandate of the previous three governments, and in 2 months we will raise it by an additional 150 kuna, which will be in total in 4 years 904 kuna. We've increased salaries in the state service by more than 15%, nurses and doctors by 22% and teachers and teachers by 19%. In agreement, we delayed two increases during this year due to the crisis. In order to improve the living conditions of our pensioners, we raised our pensions on average by 306 kuna and minimum pensions for 223 kuna, which is twice as much as in the mandate of the previous three governments. We announced an average pension increase of 5% by the end of the term of office, and we increased them by 12% and the lowest pension by 15%. We raised parental benefits for 3,000 kunas, and the compensation for the parents of the foster parents for 1,500 kuna, which made life easier for many families. We also increased the income threshold for children by 665 kuna and the personal disability in social care for 250 kuna. We reduced the tax burden by 9 billion kuna, increasing the income available to a number of citizens and disbursing a number of companies. This increased income available has helped many to withstand the initial blow of the crisis. If we were to get cheap, we reduced VAT to basic food supplies from 25% to 13%. We increased the amount of personal deduction by 1,400 kuna, from 2,600 to 4,000 thanks to the increase in wages. We cut the number of people who pay income tax so that almost a million and 900 thousand of our fellow citizens are practically exempt from this tax, or two times as much as before. We have particularly relieved our young people by freeing them from income tax for up to 25 years, and we have cut the tax in half for those 26 to 30 years in order to facilitate their economic independence and creditworthiness. The number of young people employed indefinitely has increased by as much as 78,000, providing them with safer existence and facilitating life in their families. We have abolished professional training without a working relationship and strengthened traineeships, and have increased the minimum student captainship from 15 to more than 25 kuna. We subsidized 13,000 housing loans for a roof over the head and easier start and life for young families. The number of employees reduced by 46,000 from 2011 to 2016 in our first term increased by more than 110,000 thanks to a significant increase in employment rates. The number of blockeds that rose by 135,000 from 2011 to 2016, and their debt that had been previously increased by 30 billion kuna, we decreased by 24 billion kuna. All these measures have contributed to reducing the number of our fellow citizens living on the edge of poverty by an additional 230,000. We also supported significantly the competitiveness of our economy in the past term. By reducing profit tax from 20% to 18% for large and medium-sized enterprises and from 20% to 12% for small businesses, we have increased the competitiveness of the entire economy. By raising the threshold to 7.5 million kuna incomes, we have allowed as many as 112,000 entrepreneurs to pay a lower profit tax rate from now on, and 93%, which is why we have charged them and financially strengthened them. We have returned the investment credit rating and contributed to the reduction of interest on economies and citizens who are now much more favourable. Our economy today therefore makes it easier to attract foreign investors, which contributes to raising standards and speeding up economic growth. We have kept the GDP growth rate to about 3% above the EU average and, after years of decline, our GDP per capita has risen from 61% to 65% of the EU average, these are direct consequences and our efforts, as well as Croatia's EU membership. Despite the low contract of European funds that reached only 9% in three years before our mandate, we raised it to 83% in late 2019, and today it is 105%, and we are here even by agreement among the first 6 EU members. Thanks to this, we have launched numerous investments throughout Croatia which increase the quality of life from investments in the modernisation of water utility networks, recycling yards and digitalisation to hospitals, schools, roads, railways, ports and airports. This also applies to strategic projects, such as the Slavonia project, Pelješko bridge, LNG terminal on Krk, or to the construction of new capacity for the production of clean energy, which strengthens our energy independence and protects our environment. We're conducting a reform of education, we've secured over 40,000 socio-economic and 17,000 STEM scholarships for young people. We have significantly increased investment in science and research, which is now 1.11% of GDP, which was to 0.86. Three record tourist seasons have significantly increased revenues, and by fiscal decentralisation we have strengthened municipalities, cities and counties and developed a structured dialogue with them. At the same time in the past four years, by strengthening our public finances, we have become as a country more resistant to external shocks and crises, which is good for both citizens and businesses. Thanks to the responsible management of public finances and the reduction in the expenditure of the state, we emerged from the excessive budget deficit procedure and removed excessive macroeconomic imbalances. We've reduced public debt from 88.8% to 72.8%, which is why we've disbursed the state budget, and three years in a row we've achieved a surplus, which means we haven't created a new debt. With all this we proudly cherished our valuable and our national unity around the important symbols of our identity, strengthened international reputation and position of Croatia. Deeply aware that without the victim of Croatian defenders there would be no free Croatia we protected the dignity and dignity of the Homeland War and our national symbols and kept the values on which the modern Croatian state was created. We have strengthened and regulated the rights of the defender, by passing the Law on Croatian defenders, and we have passed the Missing Persons Act in the Homeland War in order to intensify the search for 1869 missing persons. We have decided that Statehood Day is re-marked on May 30th and declared on November 18th the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Homeland War. This holiday will be marked for the first time in ten days, unfortunately in changed and extraordinary circumstances due to the epidemic. The town of Vukovar has been named a special homeland pitet, where, with the continued support of the Government, the renovated Vukovar Water Tower is a permanent symbol of Croatian determination and struggle for freedom. We returned the Croatian army to Vukovar, Sinj, Ploče, Varazdin and Pula. On two occasions, we increased the material rights of Croatian soldiers. Continuing the equipment and modernisation we systematically strengthened the Croatian army. We have equipped our police and successfully protected the Croatian border against illegal migration, thanks to which we have met all the conditions for entering the Schengen area and have obtained the green light of the EU Commission. By including all 8 representatives of national minorities in our parliamentary majority, we have made an important contribution to building an advanced and inclusive society that respects the fundamental rights and rights of national minorities. We have strengthened Croatia's position in the EU which has never been more influential thanks to which we can more effectively represent and defend our interests and strengthen the world's reputation. We have successfully prepared the Presidency of the EU Council during which, together with other members, we have faced unprecedented challenges, we have led its coordinated response to the pandemic and we have unblocked accession negotiations for Albania and Northern Macedonia. We also chaired the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on China+17, the Central European Initiative and the Danube Strategy, and Croatia received the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the EU Commission Vice-President. Dear MPs and MPs, a lot more work ahead of us and a lot of questions we may not have been able to deal with as much as we wanted because of unpredictable challenges, such as the restructuring of Agrokor, Petrochemy or shipbuilding. We are aware that our work has also been a failure, of which we do not run away, but we have worked warmly, with a lot of energy and with a sincere desire to make opportunities and life in Croatia much better than we have found them. I believe that's what we've done to a large extent. In this year we entered with solid foundations and the intention to boldly continue in this direction economic and social development of Croatia. Unfortunately, the world and Croatia were hit by an unexpected pandemic that caused an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, and then Zagreb and its surroundings were struck by an earthquake. It's all slowed down our plans. We have welcomed the challenges mentioned above, yet much more readily, thanks to the achievements mentioned earlier, which enable us to cope more successfully today with these difficulties and this uncertainty. If we hadn't increased salaries, pensions and benefits in the past three years, our citizens today would have been more financially difficult. Had we not continuously reduced the tax burden, an even greater number of citizens and businesses would have been more difficult to withstand the burden of pressure from this global crisis. If we hadn't increased employment in the past 3 years and then preserved jobs, today many of our citizens would be socially endangered. If we hadn't reduced the number of blocked and poor, the overall social situation would have been more difficult, and today we find socially fair and sustainable solutions, so that the large number of still blocked ones are gradually returned to economic activity, and this is more important for them than ever, but also for our overall social and economic recovery. If we hadn't run public finances rationally and achieved 3 budget surpluses, we wouldn't be able to take measures today that helped save 630,000 jobs and over 107,000 businesses. If we hadn't reduced the share of public debt in GDP, today it would have been over 100%, which would have been a huge financial and reputation burden for Croatia. If we hadn't returned the investment credit rating, the costs of our borrowing and the burden on our budget would have been significantly higher. If we had not successfully represented national interests at European level, we would not have provided over, in total looking at 180 billion kuna, 24.2 billion euros for the recovery of our economy, its resilience to future crises, for our future development, as well as for the reconstruction of Zagreb. And if we hadn't accelerated the agreement of used European funds and compensated for lost time, we wouldn't be able to use this strong lever to modernise Croatia, for regional development, agriculture, digitisation, green transformation, and all to raise the quality of our people's lives in all parts of Croatia. But we have done all of this, and we are proud of it because we know that it has made life and business much easier for our citizens and businesses. Dear MPs and MPs, when the pandemic hit us, we reacted quickly and effectively in the first wave. We have protected lives, and with targeted measures we have saved hundreds of thousands of jobs and businesses. With the help of our fellow citizens who showed a high degree of responsibility, we were among the most successful in suppressing the spring wave of epidemics and thus created preconditions for the most successful tourist season in Europe. Also, after the earthquake, we immediately hired all the services, took urgent steps to secure the most endangered roof over the head, or to finance the most basic repairs. We worked in parallel with the withdrawal of European money, prepared a quality legal framework for the long-term reconstruction of Zagreb and the environment, a consensus adopted here in HS where the state will finance as much as 60% of the costs of construction reconstruction of damaged buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, the readiness and agility we showed in crisis management enabled us to strengthen our country and economy's resilience today. This is particularly important in the demanding period ahead of us to continue economic recovery until the pre-crisis level, as well as for the future development of Croatia. As we can see today, we did not make a mistake when we decided to hold parliamentary elections in early July because it was the most convenient and safest moment that allowed us to have a successful tourist season and continue fighting the pandemic. Instead of being in our summer as a sign of the election campaign, the government has worked, allowing all activities that were crucial to the economy and to tourism after the elections. In these elections, HDZ with other parliamentary majority parties received the highest support, achieving a historic result, as well as the continuity of the government. The citizens recognized our results and supported the programme to make Croatia a successful and secure country in these conditions as well. We also review the choice of those who have elected other political parties. Such a result has allowed the parliamentary majority to be practically formed 12 hours after the end of the elections with the parties of the liberal centre and representatives of the national minorities. This has created preconditions for continuing to manage the crisis effectively. The stability we have provided has allowed us to implement the government programme and what we have announced only 19 days after the elections. We have 100 days of government work behind us, in which we were first able to provide health, political, financial, economic stability and to rely on the economy and citizens. Despite the fact that the crisis is not eroding, we have achieved quite a number of concrete results. Looking at the government's structures cut the ministries to 16, we rationalise the state administration and contribute to its effectiveness. In our dialogue with the social partners, we extended measures to preserve jobs and gave additional financial support to employers to reduce their working hours, provided support to micro-entrepreneurs, and extended the number of activities covered by the government and graduated them in line with the decline in transport. We have provided strong support to the economy, health and agriculture, and in particular we have supported the most vulnerable and most vulnerable groups of society. By the end of the year, we will pay about 8.1 billion kuna for salaries plus another 3 billion for forgiveness of contributions, thereby preventing more mass loss of jobs. HZZ data on the number of insurance companies show that our measures have been helpful to the private sector. Before the crisis at the end of February, I will remind you, there were a million 542 thousand insurance companies, at the end of October there were more than a million 545 thousand insurance companies, as many as 3200 more than before the crisis began. After the difficult negotiations on the new European budget and the new generation instrument, we provided strong engagement with financial leverages for the recovery, resilience and development of Croatia. We have met all the conditions for Croatia to enter the European Course Mechanism 2 in spite of the macroeconomic emergency and demanding circumstances in July successfully after the implementation of the action plan and thus continue its path towards the euro area. This not only strengthened our financial stability but also strengthened our reputation in international financial markets, which strengthens our position and our business, economy, and especially exporters. We kept an investment credit rating which is the extra wind in our economy's back. Having in mind the priorities of the government programme and the planned reforms, we have prepared a budget rebalance, which we will talk about tomorrow, and a new budget for 2021, which, together with European funds, will be the main instruments for future public debt reduction and hopefully the budget deficit. We're a government that doesn't spoil our promises, but thinks carefully about every kuna we've ever invested. We are constantly ensuring the stability of public finances, pension and health systems, and we are also relying on the economy and citizens in these demanding times. Over the past month, we've been working intensively on a national recovery and resilience plan that needs to help us cope with the crisis. We are also completing the National Development Strategy, which will be a roof document to determine the main directions for Croatia's development for the next 10 years, so by 2030 and which will be launched in public consultation the next days so that the interested public can be involved in its development. In the interest of citizens as you know we have prepared after the adoption of the law and the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund, we have adopted the first programme of measures, we have appointed a professional and quality temporary director of the Fund. The reconstruction of the city since the earthquake is financially demanding, 25000 buildings have been damaged, but you know that there has already been an advance of 89m euros from the European Solidarity Fund, the total amount is 683m euros, we have agreed 200m euros of the World Bank loan, projected additional funding, practically now available for the first year almost a billion euros. As soon as the law is passed, I think we've created every assumption that the city will be like that, that it will be solid, renewed, that its cultural and historical characteristics and its urban identity be preserved. Dear MPs and MPs, we have also shown in these 100 days that by respecting the laws and independence of the institutions, the government will give strong support to the fight against corruption without entering into concrete procedures and decisions in these proceedings. Once again, I want to repeat that there are no untouchables and that when it comes to corruption-related criminal acts, we are not interested in party belongings, not name and last name, nor in a committed duty, and that is not and will not be an obstacle to the work of the DORH and the police. The best evidence of this is procedures that have been conducted by judicial authorities lately completely on their own and independently without political pressures or interference in action. In Croatia, the kind of construction we build needs everyone suspected of engaging in corrupt activities. Under its jurisdiction and in accordance with the regulations, the Government will continue to take measures to combat corruption, work to improve legislative solutions and strengthen the capacity of the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK. Thanks to the policy that we have led over the past 4 years, above all to reduce division and tensions in society and inclusiveness towards minorities, we have built mutual trust, and thus created preconditions for the arrival of SDSS representatives as Deputy Prime Minister to mark the 25th annual military redistribution operation in Knin. It is one of the most important dates of Croatian history. On the day that freedom was secured, we sent messages of pride, piety and reconciliation to build a better future for Croatia. As winners of the imposed, fair and defensive Homeland War, we have shown that we have the courage to show pitetism to all innocent civilian victims because it is also a civilization gesture which is a provision for reconciliation and co-existence. And by going to Grubore and Varivode we have shown that regardless of nationality, all our fellow citizens who have been victims of war crimes for which there can be no justification have the same right to pitet. Unfortunately, just over two weeks ago, we witnessed a terrorist attack on the government, which is an unprecedented act in Croatia. It was subsequently shown that the young perpetrator who committed suicide was obviously radicalized, which is a dangerous trend in our society in which everyone on the political stage must stand common ground and be aware of the echoes of spoken words in public space, especially the effects on young people. In order to counter the tendencies of radicalisation and hate speech, which should not be a place in the Croatian co-ordination society for the Homeland Security System, it has already proposed a concrete list of measures to be discussed at the National Security Council meeting. In order to build a more sustainable and fairer society, our government will consistently continue to fight for the direction we had in the last term to be the direction after recovery and in the years ahead. The Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality and legality of the measures taken by the Civil Protection Staff has confirmed that our Government has dealt properly with all the challenges as well as legally in the context of the spread of the pandemic and the protection of health. I must say that at a time when all the countries around the world are fighting this pandemic by encouraging responsibility and national unity some in Croatia have done exactly the opposite by undermining the confidence of citizens in institutions, science and profession. But the vast majority of our citizens are more responsible than such individuals. After the intense first 100 days of government, we know that there is still a lot of work ahead of us to continue changing Croatia for the better under these demanding circumstances, and to turn the challenges into opportunities and to continue with reforms that have a structural character. Honorable MPs and MPs, as we can see, the pandemic that hit the world doesn't matter, but it is speeding up. The official number of people infected daily is rising by half a million and so far, millions and 200 thousand people have lost their lives because of this virus, each 4 of which is in Europe. Unfortunately, this autumn wave we were expecting has hit Europe in particular, which is currently the biggest hotspot. We see that many countries have been forced to introduce even more stringent measures to limit the movement of people from curfew to total closure. So far, as we discussed yesterday, we are not going in that direction because we believe that the measures they are taking correspond to the proportional threat the epidemic poses to us at the moment. The responsibility of each of our fellow citizens is crucial to defeating this disease together. We introduced new measures at the beginning of last week that further limited public gatherings that we believe are appropriate at this time and we are assessing their impact on the daily basis. Although the number of infected has increased significantly over the past month and even doubled three weeks in a row every 7 days, in the last 10 days we see even though the number of infected continues to increase, that they grow slower and slower. Yesterday we had almost the same number as last Tuesday, and today it's only 4% higher than last Wednesday. We will see, of course, in the coming days whether this trend continues. If that's the case, it'll be great news. Depending on this, we will adopt new measures, where appropriate, that we consider appropriate. But what's certain is that right now no one knows how long this pandemic will last. Whether it will last a few months or much longer and how long this wave will last, whether or not it will strengthen, whether there will be other waves and how much more, these are all issues that bring great uncertainty to any of us who are wondering whether or not there will be serious symptoms, in the family planning of everyday life and the future, among all our citizens who are wondering what will happen to their incomes or pensions or how they will repay credits, with employees who suffer for their jobs, with businesses and other occupations who do not know how they will operate in the coming months. Under such conditions, it is certain that it is not easy for the government to plan the budget and further work, but it is precisely our responsibility that is the greatest. It is up to us to prepare ourselves for all possible scenarios and create all the preconditions to be ready to respond to all the challenges ahead of us because our fellow citizens expect us to do so, our businessmen expect. And so our priorities in the coming period correspond to the moments and needs of the economy and citizens who are suddenly affected by the pandemic and its social and economic consequences. I'll remind you in the basic lines which are the priorities of our program that we presented as Government here in front of you in July. It is our first task to ensure our fellow citizens social security because it is a prerequisite for the development of a modern society in which everyone has the right to quality health care, social solidarity, equality and equal opportunities for everyone. Social cohesion and the reduction of inequality are our goal. The second is our mission to ensure a perspective for our people, especially young people, our entrepreneurs, during the 4th Industrial Revolution. The Croatian economy should be competitive and based on a demographic vital and educational society. The third is our task to strengthen Croatia's economic sovereignty through achieving self-sufficiency in the production of food and energy, as well as to strengthen energy independence and Croatian villages and for the development of the circular economy, as we said yesterday that the EU wants its strategic autonomy. It is our fourth priority to strengthen state institutions because this crisis has shown the importance and irreplaceable role of the state. This means that we will insist on further raising the efficiency of public services and the resilience of public finances in order to build Croatia that will rely on citizens and the economy. It is our 5th task to recognise the global visibility of the country in order to strengthen our international position in the world and Europe, so that we can represent and realise our national interests more effectively. This means preserving our cultural speciality and our people's national identity and security. Dear MPs and MPs, the main two directions of action in the next year, but also longer, will be aimed at reducing uncertainty and strengthening security and health, both social and economic. This relates first of all to strengthening the health system, preserving jobs, reducing inequality, greater social justice, the even development of the entire Croatia so that we can make better use of all our potentials. We listen to the message of citizens to whom we must be reliant, especially the most vulnerable among us. Quality crisis management needs to create preconditions for uncertainty for our citizens and for our economy to be as little as possible. By observing epidemiological measures, we must create a secure social environment for the preservation of human lives and economic activities, the responsibility of the individual is the greatest. We want to get out of this crisis more competitive, stronger, stronger than we've ever been. In the implementation of these reforms and transformations, we will be guided by the already mentioned National Development Strategy, which will be the indicative roof document for Croatia's development in this decade. In the medium term, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan will also play an important role to help us start a significant investment cycle for the next few years. Through it, we will allow Croatia to absorb a total of 6 billion grants from Europe and possibly, if necessary, 3.6 billion very favourable loans. Priority areas i.e. The components of the National Recovery Programme will be the economy, health, labour market and social protection, demographics, public administration and justice, education, science and research, internal security and risk resistance, and we will also try to contribute to the financing of Zagreb's reconstruction through this instrument. The plan is as I said in the draft, not only will we adopt it in the first quarter of next year formally and deliver it to the European Commission as well as to other countries, but we will discuss it with you here at HS. We will raise all our capacities to make use of all these European funds available. We will give priority to those economic branches and industries that will allow us to make the economy more developed, more resilient and competitive tomorrow in line with the green and digital transformation policy and to increase investment in research, investment and innovation. In the next period, respected MPs and MPs will work to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty, to create a social network so that this crisis does not further deepen the social gap. We don't want a social fracture in Croatian society. We will take all measures and help to maintain every job, liquidity of the economy and production because our workers and businesses deserve it because without them there is no Croatian economy and there is no recovery. To this end, we will continue with the policy of tax and administrative discharge. We will ensure the readiness of the public health system in the fight against the pandemic. In time, provide all the equipment to preserve human lives, the health of citizens. We will work on the availability, quality and efficiency of healthcare and the modernisation of the health system. By continuing responsible fiscal policy, we will create preconditions for meeting all the obligations of the state, paying pensions and compensation. Take care of our pensioners, our families, people with disabilities to get through these times as easily as possible. We will pay special attention to our children and young ones whose circumstances are particularly difficult. School and academic years began under special conditions. We've already had a situation last semester where from the concept of normal teaching we've moved on to television classes which are on the online course. I thank all those who have made this possible, but we all know that this is not the same concept of teaching especially in young generations compared to the usual and regular way of education. That is why we must continue to create quality conditions for the education system because it is the key to the Croatian future. We will try to help Croatian citizens at a post-crisis stage in the following areas. To deal with issue number one, the survival of the Croatian people, we will all be conscious when the census of the population is made next spring, and that is the issue of demographic revitalisation. That's when we watch after we enter the post-crisis recovery phase the most important tasks of all of us together. To this end, we will take a number of new measures that will facilitate the decision to start or expand the family and that will raise the quality of our families' lives. We will work to create a prerequisite that will reduce emigration and make it easier for employers to create new jobs and give our citizens adequate salaries. We will invest in transport infrastructure, energy infrastructure, water utility infrastructure in all parts of Croatia in order to step up the policy of equal regional development, and this means modernisation of both railways and roads and hospitals and schools and kindergartens. In order to increase our food self-sufficiency and reduce supply chains which have proved to be extremely important in this crisis, we will significantly increase investments in Croatian agriculture and its modernisation, diversification and irrigation and in strengthening Croatian villages. This will improve the quality of Croatian products but also increase our export of agricultural products, invest in forestry and fisheries. This will certainly help us to grow in European resources. To reduce our energy dependence on imports and protect our environment, we will increase and accelerate our investment in renewable energy sources, especially in the energy of the sun and wind in which Croatia has great potential, but also in new technologies like hydrogen. This will provide citizens and the economy with more accessible, cleaner and cheaper energy, while preserving our agricultural resources. In parallel, we will protect the environment, and we will increasingly convert waste into valuable resources through increasing waste separation and recycling. To this end, we will increase the number of recycling facilities, improve separate collection and treatment of biowaste according to the concept of the circular economy and the European Green Plan. To give our children and young people the best perspective, we will continue to increase investment in education, promote excellence and talent, raise reading, mathematical and natural literacy of students, which are key skills and competences to help them do high-paid jobs, and make the Croatian economy more competitive. As we said yesterday, we will strengthen digitization in education because it is a mode of the future system of education in the way we see it globally. To speed up the development of the Croatian economy through new technologies and increase the competitiveness and added value of its products, we will work on digital transformation of the economy. We will give a strong swing online trade, exchange of goods and services by electronic means, which in this crisis has proved to be the great advantage of all those companies that have gone far the most. This means faster and more accessible Internet in all parts of Croatia. We will encourage the most successful students in the fields of information, computerism and robotics. We want Croatia to be recognised as a country of innovation in the future, and the IT sector to be developed as a strategic branch of the Croatian industry with a view to overcoming its share in GDP 10%. To build a fairer, more solid and inclusive society, we will strengthen state institutions. In particular, the effectiveness of the state, public administration and the judiciary in order to respond more effectively to the needs of citizens, to provide better quality and faster services and to ensure legal certainty and procedure within reasonable deadlines. We will continue to promote a more tolerated atmosphere in a society where different opinions are respected. Continue, as I said about this particular case, suppressing hate speech, false news that promotes discrimination, intolerance, radicalisation, and ultimately leads to violence. This also means the continuation of the policy of reconciliation, co-existence and culture of memory, as well as the giving of pies to all victims of a fair and defensive Homeland War. In order to be successful in today's globalised world in which nearly 200 countries compete, we will strengthen our position within the EU, work to achieve two main specifics, so 2 priorities in the coming years are the Schengen area and the euro area, continue our more intensive engagement in the European Economic Co-operation and Development Organisation, which is practically the only other organisation in which Croatia has the potential to enter. We will continue to help our neighbouring countries through the EU enlargement policy. Also aware of all geopolitical instability, we will strengthen the defence capabilities of HV as a guarantee of the security of our citizens. To be a reliable partner to NATO allies. We will also develop relations with the world's most influential countries, and strengthen relations with neighbours. To strengthen the position of the Croatian people outside Croatia, we will be a constant support for Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries, especially Croats in BiH who are an equal constituent people there, in achieving their constitutional rights and strengthen relations with this neighbouring and friendly country whose European path we support. We will strengthen the unity of Croatian country and evicted Croatia, build a partnership to preserve the Croatian identity of young generations in Croatian emigration and create conditions for their return to their homeland. Especially this new generation that uses freedom of movement within the EU. Respected MPs and MPs, we have faced a large number of crises in the past term, including this far greater of all, we have shown that we know how to deal with these crises with cold heads, firmly and resolutely lead the country through turbulent and difficult times. We have made bold decisions, shown that Croatia has a guideline with other countries, which has made sound decisions without panic, which have provided the necessary stability for the preservation and health and jobs and the functioning of the economy and the state. Months ahead of us will be difficult and full of new challenges, but I am convinced that we will successfully overcome all difficulties together to find ways for Croatia to cope with these challenges better than some other larger and richer countries. In this context I would like to thank especially today here in HS all healthcare professionals who are still on the front line today and exhibit their own health in order to save the lives of others. I also thank our workers who go to work every day and maintain the Croatian economy under difficult working conditions. I also thank entrepreneurs who have also been forced under more difficult circumstances to fight for the preservation of their business and maintenance of each job. This is the time of responsibility of each of us because irresponsibility would be devastating. This is a time of sacrifice for each and every one of us because by keeping each other together, we contribute to our mutual success. This is the time of solidarity of the entire nation because instead of harmful divisions, we need unity. I am convinced that Croatia will still show today that it has strength, ability and people, thanks to which we will all succeed together and these difficulties. It is up to us to learn from these challenges useful lessons for the future, to put the common good ahead of particular interests, to come out of this temptation stronger, more resilient and more ready to build more developed Croatia. This is the direction in which in the years ahead and with the trust of Croatian citizens we will lead the country self-aware and determined to benefit all of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10686	I thank the Prime Minister. Now I'm going to open up a club debate, speak only clubs, the first is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the Honorable colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10687	Dear Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Under normal circumstances, it would be ungrateful to ask any Prime Minister to submit an annual report just 100 days after taking the responsibility. However, as Mr Plenkovic pointed out, this is the government of continuity and Mr Plenkovic is today speaking not only these 100 days of the last government of the Republic of Croatia but also the last year where he was headed by the previous government. And that's why it's perfectly legitimate for us here to talk about this government of continuity about the continuity of the bad things that the government has done. The Prime Minister spoke today about the achievements and it is justified and every Prime Minister has the right to do so. However, the Prime Minister, except in one sentence, has not looked back almost at one thing, we can say that he has avoided talking about everything that has been bad in the last year, was done in the wrong way or in some segments has not been done at all. Yes, it was, last year this year, first of all, marked the crown at the world, European, global level, and with us at our Croatian level and the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb just over 7 months ago. The global event of the corona or Covid-19 disease is something everyone feels every day. However, the consequences of each of the world’s states are eliminated in a better or worse way. We unfortunately belong to those who have chosen a worse path without strategies, a path without a plan, a path without vision, a path ad hoc answers to the daily situation, and then what we will do is react. The consequence of this is that today the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Beroš, speaks of the tsunami of patients facing a health system and, in general, besides offering his resignation, does not offer a real answer to how Croatia will face the health consequences of the Covid crisis. There is no response strategy, there is no clearly prepared operational programme that would prescribe steps, which would prescribe control points and predefine the actions that Croatia will take when the number of infected crosses or falls below a certain level. On the other hand, there is an escape from the government of the Republic of Croatia from responsibility, there is a hiding behind the headquarters and there is actually one attempt to throw fog into the public's eyes that in Croatia we are in a better situation than we are, and the mayors from individual counties have been speaking publicly for days now about their hospitals that are in their jurisdiction already today or tomorrow will not be able to receive patients and will not be able to provide them with room on respirators. The government was hiding behind the headquarters, and I still have something to greet, which is a statement issued yesterday by the President of the Croatian Parliament, which represents a turn in action to respond to the coronary crisis. The president of the Croatian Parliament finally announced yesterday that any decisions on lockdown and the curfew I am convinced that we all want never to happen will be made by the Croatian Parliament. And that's good. And this shows that what is happening in recent days is that the increase in the number of infected and alerts that I have received from the opposition, but the entire Croatian public is constantly telling the Croatian authorities that there has been someone's ears. So once again, Prime Minister, when you talk about community, when you talk about a common response to the challenges, it would be your turn to do something about it. We invited you to talk, organize them and let us try to agree on the measures that are necessary to avoid our society what no one wants, which is lockdown and not just any one of them, but one in which we crash without any control, plan and goal, and that if we continue to hit us in the head with unsightly consequences, from mental health of people to the Croatian economy. However, this is not the only health system crisis Croatia faces. The second is the direct responsibility of this government and, above all, Minister Beros. Of course, we can have an understanding for the minister who took over this duty at the time of the worst pandemic since World War I, but it is totally unacceptable that Minister Beroš has not been involved in the debt of the health system in the past year until the wholesalers have threatened to stop the delivery of drugs to Croatian hospitals, and in some cases they have done so. We can't wait for the wall to hit us, we can't, it's not policymaking, it's solving problems from today to tomorrow without thinking about how we're going to avoid getting into these problems at all. Health care is in a debt crisis, and we're not talking about it. First we offer 300 million kunas, we bargain, we pray moratories, at the same time we tell citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia that debts must be paid, and the Government is not responsible for its own. For this there is a huge responsibility of the minister and we will closely monitor his work and intervene if necessary in the same way as we will do these days in the case of Mr. Coric. Once again, health workers have every honor, hat to floor and affection for what they do, but those who run the health system from the minister to the lower, because in this crisis they have proved simply incapable of what was in front of them. However, health problems and health problems are not the only crisis that Covid-19 and Corona have caused. Unfortunately, as with the health situation, we do not have a strategic one long-term, comprehensive and thoughtful response to the crisis. While other countries of Spain or Canada even the IMF recommends something similar, leaving the crown crisis or economic recovery is based on the introduction of taxes for the richest in society, we in Croatia are doing quite the opposite. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was just talking about social security, talking about reducing inequality. However, this tax reform you've been announcing for months is going in the opposite direction. On the one hand, there will be an increase in inequality between the richest who will receive more and the poorest in society through tax reform, and JLS, on the other hand, who are in charge of implementing social programmes, are deprived of the funds. How can you talk about social security when you deny funds for their work to care for this social security and primary health care? You speak one thing and the other you do, and the consequences for Croatian society will be bad. The growing inequality and inability of the entire state apparatus from the least public to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with the economic consequences of the crisis that are not only helping the economy but also helping those who are going to lose their jobs because of the crisis. Unfortunately, from unemployment benefits to other forms of social assistance, heating, etc. We in the SDP have proposed energy vouchers, let's talk about it, let's at least provide in these winter months families that don't have the funds, money for heating, at least that. You are talking about your strategy, or that the measures the government took to get out of the crisis were almost perfect and almost perfect. It would be wrong to criticize, so to say that they were bad, that they were catastrophic, that there were none. Yes, there were and the SDP supported most of them. But the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was not enough. And that's only one piece of information. The decline in GDP in the second quarter was over 15% and we were the last in the EU. This suggests how inadequate our response to other Member States was after all. We suggest a series of measures. Today, I'm going to single out only two, two of which are related directly to the standard of citizens. We have already proposed one thing together with our colleagues from the Green-Left Coalition, we have referred to the procedure of proper laws to extend the moratorium to its effect. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to consider this, I ask you to introduce it because I fear the opposite will be won by the blockade of many of our citizens who are out of work. You said debts should be paid. Yes, but as these are extraordinary circumstances for countries, there are also extraordinary circumstances for our citizens, and they can be much more difficult to deal with in order to overcome this crisis period than the Republic of Croatia can. And the second is very closely connected to this, the moratorium on loans. The moratorium was indeed introduced, it lasted 6 months, but the moratorium on loans did not. You left it to the banks to negotiate with their debtors whether to give them a moratorium or not. Unlike us, Slovenia introduced it by law. For this reason, although you have already rejected the SDP proposal, in the next few days, we will re-route the Moratorium Law on loans to encourage you to finally do something about it. Another event that marked this year is our Croatian earthquake. It was too late to pass the law, we all know that, but what's there is and it's a minor problem. A much bigger problem is that even after the law is passed, it is late for renewal. And we have to keep warning you about that. It's been more than seven months since the earthquake, and clear indications that anything concrete is being done on the restoration we can't see. That is why I call on you from this place to do something about it, and it is certainly not the appointment of a member of the Fund for the Reconstruction of Zagreb as a person acting at the same time as the chairman of the Supervisory Board in one large company and a member of the Supervisory Board in the other. And imagine that now in the insurance company, and he, as the fund manager, is supposed to charge tomorrow for the damages that the owners of the apartments under the Restitution Act will leave to the fund. It's a respected colleague and fellow conflict of interest. That is why in the procedure we have sent a law proposing that the Director of the City of Zagreb's Reconstruction Fund also be brought into the control of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. We think it's important not only because of the person who was proposed as fund manager but also to ensure that someone who will lead a 10 billion kuna project is controlled. Without it, there are no guarantees that corrupt actions will not take place. When we talk about corrupt actions, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has only mentioned the power to fight corruption. However, as always so far and so far, only the consequences or the struggle with consequences have been mentioned, only the action of a repressive state apparatus, DORH, police, etc., on prevention of anything. That is why I will warn you about what we are constantly warning you from the opposition, but what the Government has also warned the European Commission about, which is that prevention, early detection mechanisms through access to information and preventing corruption through a system of conflict prevention of interest. Unfortunately, the government is not doing anything, information is being kept secret, and the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest has continued to take place in this 2020. The clips are planted and his work is obstructed. Investigators in the tax administration and police are not provided with material and other working conditions, and then I don't think anyone should be surprised that Croatia keeps falling on the corruption scale. On the Transparency International map for 2019, it was published this year, we have 47 out of 100 points, so we are below half and we are among the countries with a serious problem of corruption. For years, we've been pulling ourselves out of this, coming to power every year by one or two points on a continuous basis, so we're probably going to do this. And this is evident from the fact that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia did not mention in his speech any corruption affair that has shaken Croatia in the past year, or even that of his minister, Coric, in the Vetroelectrica affair. But we won't keep our mouths shut about it, and that's why we've initiated the impeachment procedure for Minister Coric and we'll talk about everything he's done illegally from this place. The public will hear about it. In his speech, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia pointed out the problem of hate speech in Croatia, the problem of violence that stems from this speech and extremism, and I am glad he spoke of it. And I am glad that he pointed out what happened in Knin and Varivod this summer and I think that Croatia has taken a step forward. What is sad is that it is for the government of the Republic of Croatia to take seriously the hate speech and the violence that comes from it that someone should come to Mark's square with an automatic rifle and shoot down the building of the government and parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, hate speech isn't since yesterday, it hasn't been happening in the last few weeks, it's been there for years and you haven't done anything about it. And even today, you're talking about the consequences and the consequences and not the causes of hate speech. Do not talk about an educational system that, for example, through a civil education system should prevent such behavior and teach our children about the harmfulness of hate speech and the importance of tolerance. I agree with you, Mr Plenkovic, that we must create conditions for improving the education system and that we must invest in it, but I have not heard a single concrete measure of how to do so from you in this hour. You didn't say anything about civic education, you didn't say anything about continued curricula reform, you talked a little bit about STEM, but respected Mr. Plenkovic's education isn't just STEM, education isn't just for the needs of work, education should create people capable of critical thinking, education should build society you didn't talk about, and that's important. And that's the best measure to prevent corruption and prevent hate speech, and that's long-term, and that's the strategic thinking that you and this speech that you've presented today, which is a partial reference for the last year, but also the announcement of the future moves of this government is missing. You lack visions, you lack strategic and critical thinking. For example, you have not said a word about the pressure on the media that the European Commission warns us about, and perhaps it is best reflected in Mrs Shuice's statements when she calls herself the godfather of a television show. The report on the rule of law for Croatia states that journalists face threats of physical security, harassment and intimidation, which is not what you are talking about. On the other hand, you are talking about energy sovereignty and that's good, but at the same time your government, Minister Coric, is doing the opposite of their actions. Energy extracted in Croatia is exported beyond the limit of the Republic of Croatia for processing. So where is sovereignty? She's gone. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are also talking about digital transformation, and we are at the bottom of the EU at digital competitiveness. The system of e-Citizens in five years has almost not been promoted. In the spring we saw during the crown of the crisis how when we get to the wall we can react quickly, we introduced e-passes in just a few days they have functioned and have shown how useful digital transformation is for citizens and citizens of this country. The lockdown stopped digital transformation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this government has shown that there is no vision, that there is no plan, that there is no patience, has shown that ad hoc works. If we want to move forward, we have to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10688	Thank you. And I owe it to the public to say something, given that you quoted me as well. I didn't say HS would decide on a lockdown and a curfew, I said it wasn't an option and I said HS was making laws that we all have to adhere to, and the Constitutional Court is deciding on complaints and we all have to stick to its decisions. So I'm asking you to understand that I had to say this since you interpreted something that wasn't my thought. Let's move on, now it's the National Movement Representatives' Club Stephen Nikola Bartulic's turn. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10689	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. Fellow MPs and MPs. Here would be the happiest if I could praise this report today and in that spirit maintain this exposure, but I'm going to have to be something more critical today. On the trail of what was said yesterday I'm just going to say intro that we're not here to delight or disappoint each other, there's too much responsibility on our part to be fair, and I'd say I'd be responsible for going on assignments, and there's a lot of them. As far as the crown of the crisis is concerned, and what's costing us all is certainly not the government responsible for the pandemic. The whole world is dealing with this situation and the circumstances are what they are. However, I will look back on what we can and what is in our ability to determine and here I would say that now comes at the expense of years and years of inaction, non-implementation, what Croatia needs and that is why we are more vulnerable than we should necessarily be at this moment. Mr. Prime Minister, you said it was a good decision, a wise decision being held in the 7th month. You have certainly benefited from that decision, however, the question arises which would be that the elections after what we are looking at now in the fall, that doctors and medical staff protest outside the Dubrava hospital, the situation can no longer be hidden and the big question is what the result would have been if it had been a different term, but about that later. We stand certainly against the new locksown. Croatia, I will remind you, after last recession in 2008, which was not as deep as this crisis, it took us seven full years to get back to the previous situation. We simply can't afford it, we have to do everything to avoid it, we're aware of what conditions our entrepreneurs are doing, it's a very difficult situation. What they have been paid in terms of job conservation is one necessary measure, but short-term, does not solve the problem. And what we need to study, because how to actually make business easier for them to have new jobs in Croatia, rather than abroad. It's actually the best indicator of whether these measures you've taken have an effect or not. Whether our people stay in Croatia, whether they can prosper here, find happiness for themselves and their family or seek it abroad. Unfortunately, I'm saying again, unfortunately, that balance isn't good. Those who return to Croatia come at the end of the working century to spend the last years of their lives in Croatia, and that vital population, the working-age population, unfortunately, is leaving Croatia, and we are afraid that a new censorship will confirm the new census. That no matter what it seems, the effect is too modest and we must always keep in mind that we are in a competitive environment. So what is said to be done to make Croatia more competitive is obviously not enough because others work better. On all the scales, we are at the bottom of EU member states. So we can and we have to do better and it's our condition that we just all have to be aware of that. I will repeat myself to see this stability and security that you often point out as false. So we still have, unfortunately, one clienteleist governance model that rewards those who are well-connected to politics. It is carried out through various ways, but it is visible at all levels, especially in public institutions. I will just remind you of a conversation between Minister Beros and a doctor about the leading place in a hospital in Zagreb. This creates one cynicism in the Croatian public, why even apply to public competitions if everything is agreed in the HDZ. So, in some ways, when you're looking at public tendering, if you're not a member of the ruling structures, so HDZ or their partners, then you're a second-class citizen. There's little chance of you finding a place through these procedures. And what do we see? That the health system is actually collapsing. Why? Well, I can't blame so much Minister Beros, he's a neurosurgeon, a good expert, for many years he's invested in that education, and now he's actually got to deal with the management of a huge system where there's neither professional competence nor experience in it, where are the health management managers? Wouldn't it make more sense if they ran a system like that, where, I repeat, the state has a monopoly. Monopoly. So the state is responsible for that condition, no one else. Court decisions are not respected. I'll remind you of the decision to pay extra doctor's watches, the government hasn't respected it yet. What kind of example is that to others? Why should citizens respect court decisions if the government doesn't respect them? We can see that this dissatisfaction is getting more and more pronounced, to the surface. People are unhappy. But I suggest once again that the reform of this system be carried out because every monopoly is necessarily mismanaged, not doing the service it is required to provide. That goes for HZZO, too. In addition to 25 billion kuna contributions that we are forced to pay, so every employee, every employee has no choice where that part of the gross salary will go, 16.5% of gross wages, we have no choice but to go all the way to HZZO and besides 25 billion is not enough. Under these extraordinary circumstances, you're looking for donations from citizens. They're citizens ahead of the show, they're hard to pay for the directors, but the big money is being allocated for health funding and it's still not enough, then obviously something's wrong, and it's not the crown crisis excuse for inaction, you've had time to get ready in the right way for, for what we're facing today. Also, the pension system, Minister Maric points out that this difficult pension situation is not at stake, but should explain to citizens that much of the pension payments are coming from VAT. The peace system as such has already gone bankrupt and it has been that way for years. It's missing somewhere between 15 and 18 billion kunas every year to pay off pensions. What's been done here? So again, we see that too few people work and create in Croatia, that is a key problem. So we're going back to a demographic state that's very difficult and it's getting harder. Official law, I mentioned the executions. So, the executive law is what it is, I think we need to change it urgently. I'll mention the case in Slovenia where five judges deal with 60 employees. The public records, lawyers who have their own interest in maintaining this condition, are not included in these procedures, this status quo. So you can do it another way where we won't have examples like this where from a debt of 100 to 200 kuna rises to a thousand and more. It is possible, there are other models not far from us, here in neighbouring Slovenia. As far as clientelism is concerned, I must say that this phrase that this government is fighting corruption is actually a sad fact that the government itself is through public companies and everything it manages is actually often a source of corruption, a source of corruption. Janaf may be the most picturesque example of this, and I am sorry that the investigative committee was not set up in the assembly, which you finally refused with the argument that the assembly already has mechanisms and ways to discuss all issues, but unfortunately we are still waiting for the agenda of this House to come to the Court and State Attorney's Office report. Why do you keep putting it off when it's obviously prime issues? So once again, that cynicism is awakened, most leverage is abused for such purposes, and we will always warn of it. We always have to take care of the general good, which is in the interest of all people regardless of the particular party interests. Something about European funds, they won't save us. It is a good thing that 22 billion EUR is available to Croatia by 2027, that's good. However, the big question is ultimately how much of it we will withdraw and how it will be spent. That's a big question. We know in advance what our contribution to this joint budget is, and we're going to have to pay it. However, the way these funds are used shows that they are not always good. I'll remind you of the case with the wind power plants and Krsh-Paden, it's one big scandal, I'd say where it's been during the 14th year. due to the mandatory energy price on the back of the consumer, it places more than 2 billion kunas over 14 years. and we will insist through both interpretation and other ways that the responsible really ultimately respond, including Minister Coric, who obviously cannot hide and defend himself from these criticisms anymore. As for new sovereignty, it was about when the new government was represented in the 7th month, to one of my questions about relations with communist China you yourself admitted that it wasn't, if it hadn't been for cooperation with China our hospital wouldn't have the necessary medical equipment. Is this new sovereignty that we depend on relations with such a country to this end? The whole world resets relations to China because it's more than clear that it has too many levers of power and can even blackmail would say much of the world. It is certainly not in Croatia's interest, any dependence on any country is not good and I appeal for it to be seen in this way. I still don't get it. It's a country that violates fundamental human rights every day, the whole world knows it. All our people have suffered under the same ideology, but it seems to me that this government would rather trade with the Chinese than with America, unfortunately. Dear MPs and MPs, from this point on, it should be concluded that where the government has to do more, say, in the judiciary, in the work of non-good courts and people are rightly dissatisfied, does not do what they should, and where they should do less in the economy, there is too much politics present. So things are actually upside down, we need a smaller state, less about running an economy, too many governments are determining winners and losers on the market. One clear lever for this is HBOR, a state bank, which is the same institution that promotes this clientelistic way of managing. These well-netted entrepreneurs can count on favourable loans, the rest of them not, the others can't. So we must be realistic and ultimately strive towards the equality of all citizens. That's what you said and we agree, in principle we all need to be equal, but unfortunately we're not. I would even say that the main division in Croatia is not so left-right, it is that we disagree on many issues, it is certain, but I would say the main division is between those who are well networked and well-lived and do not need to look for happiness in Germany or California or Australia and those who are not, who actually have no other way but to look for work together with their families outside Croatia. That's what we should be worried about. And here I will come up on a very important topic on the trail of this tragic event two weeks ago in St. Mark where a police officer was wounded and eventually the perpetrator himself killed himself. I see a new attempt unfortunately to use such a tragedy for political purposes, which is not good. We share responsibility for this country, each one is responsible for his spoken word in public, and we certainly need to be very responsible, even cautious in what we say. But if we're going to talk about hate speech, then we're asking to be consistent. For example, if the weekly News that this government finances has countless examples of headlines from these newspapers whether it is hate speech or a speech of love, I would like to hear the answer to that question. To the constant provocation and ridicule of what is sacred in the Croatian people whether it is a hate speech or a speech of love, the worst of all being financed by taxpayers. Let them go to the market and let people buy it if they want to read it, why would they finance it. After all, it has to do with the identity of the Serb community in Croatia. It's heavy ideological bickering, unfortunately. I would like to remind you that last year's report, intelligence services made it clear that it was not, that there is no radicalisation in Croatian society, at least the services whose job it has not yet been discovered, such a trend, if there is a need to be therefore clearly supported. We are deeply hoping that this tragic incident in the upper city is an isolated incident and will not happen again. However, we see in other European cities of another kind of radicalisation, and it seems to me that the EU has not yet found an adequate answer. Again and again, the European public is shocked, expressing condolences to innocent victims, convicted, but we still have no solution for what is threatening us. You said Mr. Prime Minister the same in the report that the government is listening to the voice of citizens, that you care about what voters and people think, but it seems to me again in a selective way. When it came to initiatives for a fairer electoral system and for the abolition or non-ratification of the Istanbul Convention, you had no hearing of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of citizens who organized themselves on a volunteer basis and handed over a large number of signatures. There was no hearing, there was no saying consistent listening to their will, but more ignoring and rejecting. And I wonder why, why are we afraid of our own people? It's not good and it will create still great tensions in society. And we agree that we should reduce them wherever we can, that's where we agree, and you'll always have an ally in me for that matter, but we need to be consistent and do what we say. And in the end I will say that what citizens know should actually judge our work by what we do, by our actions, and less what we say because we've already heard nice phrases, I'd say repeat clichés, some of them are more skilled at it than others, but the works are what are at the end of the day and what will determine the fate of our people. Here, I wish you every good, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10690	Let's move on now. We will now listen to the Party Representatives' Club with the name and last name, Smart and Glass. Two MPs, respected colleague Mrak Taritas and respected colleague Oreskovic will speak, and after that we will take a break of 10 minutes to air a large council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10691	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues, we had the opportunity to hear the speech of our Prime Minister who spoke about the Continuity Government, said that it would be, that we would have a difficult and challenging time, that he would make sure that there was a reduction of uncertainty to offer security and that he would do it on his own, those are the words the prime minister said. And after he said that we really live in one, I never use a new time sentence, I think this is a time that will last for a short while and that's how we should think. Both on behalf of the club and on behalf of the Voice Party and I will speak personally about several topics. The first topic I really want to say about a few words is health care. All those nice words and praises that our prime minister regularly resorted to in the case of Croatian healthcare in recent days fell into the water. In front of the public and all of us, it's very visible. In the Croatian government, when it comes to health care, the power went out, and generators are afraid to work respected prime minister. The most modern Croatian hospital has been turned still for unclear reasons exclusively into a Covid hospital. It's a hospital that has the most modern emergency, operational block and everything else, which one serious hospital must have, and it also covers a vast and densely populated area, now that this hospital is for all those who have no crown closed and unreachable. Why? What kind of decision is that? You said yesterday that you were behind that decision because all such decisions go through your office, and then that wasn't enough either. When that questionable decision began to be implemented in the classic style of your government and your party badly. In front of the Croatian public, the terrible testimony of employees and patients of KB Dubrava and other hospitals in Croatia were exchanged. No food, no medication, no staff, no appliances. Double lines of command that don't communicate with each other. What have you been doing to the Honorable Prime Minister since spring, you and your Minister of Health? We know exactly what you've been telling us, we've got a hard fall ahead of us, we've got to prepare ourselves, you won't be able to work normally, you're going to normally get together, life is going to be in some bad science fiction movie, but what's a shame that you didn't listen to yourself, so you're getting a little bit prepared yourself. The time to paint in the media the health minister found, for interviews and statements in the election campaign there were no problems, and even shooting with the stars. The argument with doctors and their associations was not complained about by time or energy. Of course, then there was no time to check if the generators in KB Dubrava were working, so that people on the respirators wouldn't be out of air when the fuses were out. After in their letters, Dubrava’s employees informed the public about the system’s collapse in the end, they stopped at the hospital and protested some week ago, and, for God’s sake, yesterday. Which suggests chaos. Health care when we need it most has reached the point of firing. And we're not naive to know that it's not about the crown for the simple reason that even before the crown was not in perfect condition to avoid confusion. But the amount of amateurism and cremation this time still goes beyond what we've seen. And speaking of amateurism and schlamperai, there is another chaos in health care that you've produced. For months, but it's literally been talking about it for months and people are being called on to vaccinate against the flu. It's the blackest scenario in which if the flu and the crown and the question of what's going to happen and what happens then. People are in a frenzy waiting in what's-his-name. virtual vaccination lines, but we find that only 600,000 doses of vaccines have been secured. It's just not how you do it. It's reckless and dangerous. And that's why real life is really like I said yesterday behind this assembly, outside of the Ban Courts, real life is somewhere else and in real life all these ways, all of this schlamper is reflected in the growing anxiety and unrest among our citizens. Another topic I'm going to be about, and there's going to be a chance that we're talking about in some other conditions, which is the earthquake that hit our country's capital and two neighboring counties and that's certainly leaving a trail in all of us, whether we were in our beds at the moment of the earthquake, because it was in the early morning hours or it was an opportunity to see somewhere else that really left a trail and that's something that happened to us with the crown that really happened for the whole world. And then how do we treat the earthquake? So, on September 16th, the law came into force, and then we warned that the law was not directly enforceable, so that the law could be implemented and there must be a series of sublegal acts. The condition for these, the main of these acts was October 16th, we all know that today is November 4th, one of the regulations is just finished public debate and we expect it to be adopted, and the first programme of measures is published also with delay but is published. I'm kind of always hoping for the best possible scenario, and when I read that first measure program, then I felt like someone in that one movie when someone said, "e Danice, Danice, but you're naive." When I read this first programme of measures only then I saw that a lot of our fellow citizens would absolutely have a problem to apply at all because we have to solve property-legislative relations, have to continue, introduce public notebooks in the whole process, introduce judicial experts, as if we don't really want to, or want to make it as difficult to apply, and that the harder it has to be realized, and then we can see that the demands will be made by 2030. So, apparently all of those 10, 20, 30, 40 years you've been talking about refurbishing is going to be so necessary. Several times from this pay phone, and otherwise we warned that the reconstruction of public purposes would not be necessary for this law, that it could go according to existing laws and that it should run a team more than there is an 18-month deadline in which we should use the funds that have been received and obtained mainly for public purposes buildings. In this program that I have already mentioned about public purpose buildings there are pages and a half, the program has 87 pages. So you could've already run it and you could've done it. Why didn't you, you know that well, but what I heard carefully from your speech was that you actually advocated and that you wanted a firm Zagreb, and what we advocated, what we pointed out was one systematic, complete reconstruction of Zagreb, block by block according to certain conditions. What we see from this first programme is that really rebuilding it will be to make buildings as firm as possible. So what was the idea that from this bad situation that hit this area to turn bad into good, to be a new swing and step forward, a new swing in the development of the city. Unfortunately, even when I read that first programme of measures, I'm afraid there's no way. And what characterizes the HDZ government, which is that they are unable to restore even what has been ruined, let alone achieve some new momentum or development. The next topic that I really want to say a few words about is the judiciary. Because of the crown and caused by the crisis, the subject of the judiciary has somehow fallen into another plan, but that does not mean that the problems have been reduced or gone. Croatia, and this is no news, nor secret, has a serious problem with the judiciary, both with its functioning and with the impression that citizens have about it, and from that impression, trust arises, or mistrust in the judiciary of their own state. And that trust in the judiciary of our own country is disastrous. According to a regular annual survey by the European Commission on the state of justice of the Member States, we are also not among the bad but are the worst of the impressions that citizens have of judicial independence this year. So not among the bad, but the worst, the very worst. Our citizens don't trust their own judiciary, and that's just the way it is. In Croatia we have lower affairs, we have spectacular arrests, and at the end of it all turns out to be one big nothing. The process has been delayed for years and decades, since the fight against corruption in Croatia there is no K, and P. The public plays are not a struggle and they are a serious business. And it becomes quite obvious that one of our key obstacles is on our way to a serious state of justice. The government doesn't do anything about it. She is not even willing to listen, nor to give opportunity to those among us who have made constructive suggestions so that the situation may begin to change. Both my party GLAS and many other opposition parties in the assembly have made proposals that would have been tried by the judiciary, I stress that it will try to improve, but we have always received the same answer, the proposal is rejected because the government will give its better course. These government proposals, we're still waiting and we can't wait. In the EU, we are 2nd in the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, at the expense of the judiciary and the share of GDP, so we have the most judges, we spend the most, and the results are devastating. Is the problem just judges, their work, the organisation of courts? Is the problem the law? Are the problems of a skilled lawyer that the courts and the state's attorneys can't handle? Is there a problem with political pressure and corruption? Probably, as it usually is, the answer to all these questions is yes. There's a little bit of everything there, but we all put up with it. Neither the state with such a judiciary can be completed, nor the citizens can protect their rights and achieve equality against laws, and therefore neither investors can trust that the Croatian state is the country in which they want to invest money and create jobs and therefore do not invest. In its report on the rule of law, the European Commission has counted nicely. The perception of the independence of the judiciary between citizens and companies is the lowest in Europe because of the pressure of politics and economic and other stakeholders. We're also at the bottom of modern technologies. The State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council and the State's Attorney's Office are also limited in other ways. And of course, by the number of pending cases and length of proceedings, we're also the worst students, and the government has no need to do anything about it, and I'm going to stop there, and I'm going to stop there. Oreshkovic, I think he's here somewhere that he can go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10692	Thank you. Just please wipe, just a second, thank you. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10693	Dear President HS, fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I listened very carefully to your speech, I must admit that I was upset by the words when you said that you would continue to advocate a more just society and that you would continue the direction you started in your previous term. Well, I hope you change that direction because your direction is bad. Unfortunately, however, it continues, everything that continues in a decent and democratically regulated state in which there is a rule of law must not happen, which is that there is undermining the rule of law, undermining the rule of law and the execution of independent state bodies, and you are their executioner, the Honorable Prime Minister. The state of law died the day this body was brought by the so-called HS. The law on Agrokor, the moment we allowed a group called the Borg, and the competent state bodies such as the state's attorney's office to call it an informal task force, came up with a law on which it mostly profited itself, more than a company allegedly saved by more than a Croatian citizen. Since there is a government law that your government and you and Mr. Andrej Plenkovic have violated, I will only mention what is actually in the article. Article 23 Article 24 23 says that in order to determine the situation, to develop strategic development plans and analysis and to question the permanent or occasional nature of the importance of acting as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister may appoint advisers, special advisers or set up advice and appoint members of the council. A.k.a. 24 says the Government can establish permanent or occasional working bodies to make proposals, opinions, expert explanations, etc. There is no informal group, Your Honor, Prime Minister. And the moment the State's Attorney's Office accepted this kind of interpretation for which there is no foothold in the Croatian legal order, the rule of law died for centuries as long as there is a government and a government of the HDZ, amen. You say, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, that you will change Croatia for the better. So how will you change the state in which all righteousness has died, and what it takes to be allowed to rule over what is not lawful to mortals and citizens? How will you focus on reforms that have a structural character when you are unable to implement the minimum that already exists in the laws? There can be no excuse for the pandemic, there can be no cover behind which we will hide behind, behind which we will deny that Croatia will part at every step, and bear witness to this torment, institutional torment. This state is not in a position to put public interests above the public interest because there is no institution that can consistently implement its laws in the work of politically powerful officials. The affairs are falling from day to day, but we never see their epilogue. They are suppressed from public space, suppressed from the media, suppressed dialogue, at first I thought it was because of their number, and then I realized that it was a psychological effect, that it was an escape from reality. Citizens who in a different way cannot simply deal with this reality and their impotence forget what is actually happening in this country. And why are the institutions weak? Well, because of you, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. You've done more for their destruction than all your predecessors combined. I'll just say something about the Committee of Decisions on conflict of interest. In 2017, when I led this body, this Croatian Assembly through reports, and also to the government's competent authorities, we referred the thesis to amend the law. It's been three years, it's done absolutely nothing. If any of these proposals had been accepted, it would not have happened that your Minister Tolusic could achieve an incentive of 2.5 million kuna from the Agriculture Payment Agency. If any of the Commission's thesis and proposals had been accepted, then Goran Maric could not have obtained a position of advisor in the Croatian Road Company after the ministerial office had ceased. There could not be much that has actually shown that the HDZ political caste significantly more privileged even than members of other political parties. I'll say something about the judge's property cards and the state's attorneys. For two years, we haven't been able to conduct their public publication or link them to other state bodies' databases. We write some incomparable explanations to the EU Commission and their bodies that this coordination with GDPR is the reason, so it is all false. I've been working on networking the property card of us tax officials and everyone else. When there's political will, it can be carried out in the blink of an eye. Someone mentioned why HS has not been discussing the Commission's decision-making report on conflict of interest for two years now, the President of the Supreme Court, as well as the State's Attorney General's report. Well, it's because they're writing things that responsibility for the state of affairs are very much transferring to you, Mr. Andre Plenkovic and to your government. It shows all the unwillingness of the state to do anything to improve the anti-corruption system. The state's attorney's office has been warning for years that the short deadlines for securing the seized property of the defendants are too short, and we know how long our criminal proceedings are going on. What is it, anyway, with the proceedings against Eve Sanader? Will we ever see an epilogue? What will actually return from alienated property into our legal system? For the end, for the end, I'll just say, so I don't expect you to do anything useful It would mean it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] End for you, just to finish the sentence [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Please, I'm appealing to you. [[Intruder: Please, time is up.]] Prime Minister, [[It's been seven seconds.]] that your parliamentary majority is not working [[Agreement: colleagues Oreshković.]] a new strategy to combat.../ [[Intruder: I beg you, time is up.]] Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10694	Comrade Oreskovic, time is up and I ask you to finish your presentation, like everyone else, stick to the deadlines. Comrade Zekanovic, you will speak after the break, as I have announced, e. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10695	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Oreshkovic insults and demeans the MPs, and I would even say that he insults the common sense of our representatives. I would say to her that the cost of advisors in Agrokor, or advisor of the extraordinary administration, was approved by the creditors who thus kept their property and they appointed them and appointed them, not the Government, not the Parliament and not Mr Plenkovic. But I'm not surprised. That you don't know the laws because you don't know [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Bačić.]] no Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bačić.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10696	Thank you very much, you are aware that you have sinned now about the Rules of Procedure and that this was a replica, so I give you a warning. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10697	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues were injured by an article. 238, because he demeans all of us MPs regularly every time he has a chance. The fact of the matter is that Mrs. Devereaux... simply after choosing as president in the living room, it is obvious that she has received the stage to insult us all and to tell us about democracy. If democracy is to charge the rulebook and some story about the GDPR about some public enterprise of 70 thousand kuna, which is the biggest tariff anyone could not pay for one such job, otherwise it's officers for a few thousand kunas in every smallest municipality, then it's a disgrace to all of us together...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10698	I thank my colleague, Boric, the same thing as my colleague Bacic. It was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're gonna take a break by 11 o'clock and 50 minutes. Let me tell you, then she'll be talking to four clubs, so it'll be about 13 hours, then we'll have a free speech. After the free speech, we'll take another ten to fifteen minutes off and then we'll move on. So we move on at 11:50. It's 11:38 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:50 A.M.]] Your colleague Zekanovic will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, Zekanovic and his colleague Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10700	The Honorable President of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, Vice-President Medved. Here we have been listening to the report for almost an hour, it sounded nice for our Prime Minister to know it in a very nice way to present it and it seems that the situation in Croatia is much better than it is objectively. And I'm going to try to be as objective here as possible even though I have my position, so as soon as I speak, of course, I'm subjective, but here I'm going to try and say that the objective situation is not easy, and that even this government, when it came, is a bad situation of economics, so I listened yesterday, a few days ago to Minister Marić who said that we would only come to 2019 in 2023, and that in 2008, we came, sorry 2019, we just achieved the result in 2008. So in 2023 we will be as we were in 2008 which sounds a little bit pessimistic, which is the key, exact information that we should talk about that is not good in Croatia and that Croatia has been stagnating for 12 years as regards economic development of GDP, and that things are stagnating and being in regression for a minimum of three years. When I listened to you, I'd say that you boasted of some sort of measure like when. Captain Titanic would boast that it is a beautiful fence on Titanic, that the lodgers have good new suits, that the ship is full of coal and that it can sail the route of the United States, that would sound so because the most important data does not tell us that it is wonderful in Croatia. In your speech for an hour I only heard 30 seconds of self-criticism, here you have said one word, there have been failures in one word, but we have tenderly advocated progressive progress in the same sentence, so there are these self-critics I have not seen, and even that corruption which has certainly shaken Croatian society here lately you have mentioned almost no such authority at all. The key problem of the Croatian state today is not the crown because the crown will pass, this crisis that we have will I am sure in 2021 end in one way or another and we will talk about it in such a way, but I won't say with the seed, but here we will mention with such due caution and here in 2020. The key problem is the demographic problem. Unfortunately, you didn't talk about him enough even though at one point you were quite honest, so you said that this list of the population in 2021 would show where we were. Croatia has not moved anywhere in this sense, you have given some measures, but there are figures quite exact. Croatia means it has only 36 or 35,000 newborns annually. This number of declines, there were years of a little better, a little bit of bad but it's falling, and we have a continuous high natural decline that is depending on the year to year 16,000, 15,000 means it's spinning there, so we don't see a single trend that's changing and that's the key problem. I will excuse you here, however, it is not only the problem of Croatia that is the problem of the entire EU, the entire Western civilization, but from this place of this pay phone regardless of what you do not support it must be said. And that problem, even when it wasn't a crisis, wasn't put into focus as much as it was supposed to be. And I am responsibly saying that all the demographic measures that have been implemented have not yielded a result because we have an equally high, equally great natural decline as we had in the previous period. You mentioned fighting the crown, fighting the crown successfully. Here are the data from a few minutes ago 2480 new infected, 1221 in the hospital, 118 on the respirator and unfortunately 26 people died, so these figures are still high, not growing because Croatia simply doesn't have 100 million people. There are 4 million people and this is the maximum Croatia can have. And we won't go much more than these numbers, but these numbers are horrible to us every day from the consequences of the crown, 30 people die. The Crown will pass, but not because of the Civil Protection Command or the government's merit because it simply has a certain course and I'm sure when the little population is immuneized that it will simply end. I know that you will share this credit to yourself, but there will be a crown in all countries of the world at the same time, and Croatia will be no exception, I hope there will be no exception. You also mentioned migrations along the way, migrations are a problem that will come to us in the next period, we must bear in mind when the crown is passed and will very much be talking about illegal migrations that have not stopped. Today, the crown does not talk about them, people from Gorski Kotar, Kordun, like report that migrants, illegal migrants break into the cottages and Croatia has a huge problem with the migrations they are not talking about. You were also talking about radicalization, when we talk about radicalization one of the most radical behaviors I've seen in the Croatian Parliament was your behavior past the term here when you ran to face, to face, perhaps to sweat with your colleague Grumo. In addition to this behavior, I have not seen any radical behaviour, more radical behaviour by Croatian politicians. So, when we talk about radicalisation, we always have to look at ourselves a little bit and talk about ourselves, and when someone thinks that radicalization is responsible for the current coalition, which is how you said it was made up of the liberal centre and national minorities, so the Roma national minority, the Italian national minority and the Serb national minority, means representatives of the SDSS, I'll say what I said yesterday and it's legitimate and it's your right to choose a partner, you chose him as well as some previous governments in that part of the political spectrum among minorities, and there's no problem here because you, who chooses to co-operate with and choose your partner, and that's fine. However, what I see as a problem is that we have the advantage of MPs who have been elected under special law. These people did not come to the Croatian Parliament in the same way that you would finally come and you were chosen and I and all of my colleagues here who were not on minority lists, but under a special law, and they are given special rights and that is the problem. You mentioned as a major step towards the departure of Mr Milosevic as Deputy Prime Minister from the Serbian national minority in Knin. That was commended by a colleague of the coat of arms. I don't know if he went there, if it was some kind of political blackmail and what's the reason for his departure, but what I would say here is, it's no problem if someone's going to go tomorrow here to Milorad Pupovac in Vukovar, the problem is that these people, representatives of the Serb national minority, once finally have to say forgive for all that our national minority, their people, made our homeland of Croatia. And why do we point that out, '90s. A year and you say she was far away, '91. The year was far away, and certainly that year and this Homeland War left a mark here, and we still don't have that satisfaction either from your colleague Vukic that he eventually confessed to confessing to the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, a colleague of Sacic asked you nicely what's going on here? You said it was working. I will say deeply doubt that anything is done and even here I will bet you won't do anything about it during your term that you are not even there because it is also his character, his decision, we won't hear a confession, let alone war damage or anything like that. Finally, there's another thing you haven't talked about, and I wish you'd said, and that's the protection of the life I often talk about. You owe it to the Constitutional Court to pass a new law, so bring it. Respect the Constitutional Court's decision. I could do this for a very long time about your report, but I'll leave it here in a minute to my colleague Sacic who also wants to say something. But I would conclude from this place here with one topic that is current, you didn't mention it in your report, and it's very important to me, and perhaps most important today, and it's about the Presidential elections in the United States. This way I'm going to prejudge a little bit here we're all following it, I'm sure you're following, I'm going to congratulate the former president of the United States of America Donald Trump on winning, and we Croatian sovereigns didn't have any dilemma of who to support or who to root for and cheer for Trump and we're glad to make that victory happen. And I have to say that that piece that was on TV yesterday, the Croatian documentary about Trump is embarrassing. So, if Croatia is television and under your direct political control, I would ask myself which editors can and in what way do they put such acts that are very discrediting a presidential candidate especially in the context that this presidential candidate will soon be the president of the most powerful country in the world again. It's ultimately, I'll say no wisely if nothing else. At least you kept your mouth shut, you didn't say your position about anything, but your state television, our state television is acting like I'm going to say embarrassingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10701	Just a second to overwrite the pay phone and then we'll move on. We have prior to that a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but at the end of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've reached out to your colleague, Boris, okay. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10702	I welcome you, too, Mr. President and Minister, so, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to hear a comprehensively comprehensive report on the work of this 100-day government of the Republic of Croatia, where it is clearly indicated all, all the evils that have struck us in these, in this year and they are there, objectively extremely fatal, from the crown to this earthquake and there is nothing to add and we can only take away some general grades to suffer, to suffer great damages due to these problems. But what should certainly be critically considered is what should be pointed out in this report, which was referred by Mr. Prime Minister to certain segments that were not related to these objective circumstances and preventative, and were intrigued by the Croatian public and by our parliamentary representatives. Let's say one of these security borders, illegal migration, other corruption, the third facing the past, especially in the spirit of the resolutions of the European, European, European Parliament, and finally the issues of the Homeland War that you mentioned. For example, we from the Croatian Sovereignists have long pointed to the execution of the policy you have chosen, Mr. Plenkovic, by going to Marrakesh and one quasi-liberal position, have practically opened the borders for all those who, in one illegal, illegal way, try to penetrate or penetrate the EU area or the Republic, while we as a responsible member of the EU as well as, above all, all the citizens of the Republic, expect to respect the basic decisions and provisions of both the Republic Constitution and all the laws and it is incomprehensible for us to be under... One humanitarian issue actually puts all this together, one important security issue that has very important implications, both for other EU countries, and so we now see in the area of the Republic of Croatia that our citizens are clearly suffering certain damages due to such a mild state and maintenance still, unfortunately, of the so-called principle. soft limits, because what else to say, if you're still standing on the stand that our border police are enough to protect the border, so long, so divorced, thousands of miles away where, if someone could figure it out more clearly, we can say by now, our border guards for a mile, one policeman around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we share it in shifts, with a few drones or I don't know what. On the other hand, the opposite of us is upward at this point, at least according to recognition of what our colleagues from BIH, Serbia, are doing, more than 20,000 desperate young people who have this status of some migrants, not refugees, but migrants. And now, what is the effectiveness of our protection? Enough speaks the fact once again published 2, 3 months ago by our fellow police officers in Slovenia, where they enormously, recorded an enormous increase in the arrest of illegal migrants, on their border, which is normally guarded by barbed wire and natural fortifications, rivers, even certain units of their Slovenian army and for, in physical terms, they have arrested about 8,000 of these unfortunate young people who have passed naturally through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We didn't arrest, we didn't stop it, but to make it worse, and the Italians, the Trstian police gave a report during that period where they arrested 800 such people who even went through Slovenia. Now, what am I saying? With this brief illustration, we must strengthen that safety belt with our neighbouring countries. You were a witness yourself, in front of your eyes are columns ready from the Bihać area, when you were at Plešivica, we had the opportunity to see it, Minister of the Interior, Mr Bozinović led you there, so you practically saw at your feet how to prepare columns of 20, 30 illegals in Croatia, and the thing is that we are already having a problem at a personal security level, not only from burglaries, but you can see that our citizens have to defend themselves from such attacks, overcoming the necessary defence, using weapons, having problems with Croatian laws. What's that for? Some police are not the only ones enough to do their job but, with the police, finally assume their role, and has a constitutional basis for that, both legal and part of the Croatian Army. Let this be taken seriously, sometimes discussed with our neighbouring countries, colleagues, who worry about security in BiH because they are not working enough on these issues, the Montenegrins put the army at the border between Albania and Montenegro and prevented certain waves, but Serbia is effectively defending itself with both the military and those wires it has put there, however, we Croats rely on some goodness, in Samaritanism, we highlight this humanitarian aspect, at the same time forget the absolute and enormous security problems which, behold, the epilogue we see in Nice, we see in all the EU countries where these same people who have run over the territory of BiH and Croatia, Slovenia, and... have status and what they are able to do and it is one of the larger, stronger tasks that you have to commit to and we suggest... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to finally get the Croatian military able to function in the protection of security, national security of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The corruption you spoke of as the success of your government, i.e. the executive authorities in one part and other repressive systems, is only a partial display and of course we cannot accept it to be satisfied with this situation because, first of all, for the past 10 years, we have not had the elemental organisational forms to fight corruption in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the face of the State's attorney and criminal police and other services that are not united, means that it would fight... means the setting up to fight the mafia and organised crime in the Republic is the generality and unification of the system against this most serious form of crime, and unfortunately you did not provide it. Tax administration has its own USKOK, State Inspectorate of its own, CRIME POLICE USKOK is doing its job, DORH will see it very soon in a few days absolutely unprepared logistics towards equipment for this difficult struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10703	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first reported by a colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10704	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238nd colleague Zekanovic always deviates from the general rules of conduct because he tries to teach coalitions on a daily basis here. I will remind Croatian builders that he voted in favour of the 2016 coalition where they were members of national minorities, but he obviously forgot it. When we needed his help he left us on the first turn, simply reminded himself that he did not want to be any more part of it. And what if he's a college center for migrants I think it's a cast-off call let the citizens call the police they're the ones who are dealing with the issue of migrants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10705	Thank you very much. You're aware that this is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up again, this is a second warning. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10706	In 238, of course, my colleague Boric deliberately twists my words. I said it was a legitimate coalition. And it's okay that Andrej Plenkovic had the right to choose whoever he wanted and invite both SDP and anyone, but he invited whoever he called and I don't have that problem with it, there is obviously no Andrej Plenkovic, so he chooses his partners and this time he chooses... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10707	You and your colleague Zekanovic have done the same thing as your colleague, Boric. Comrade Reiner, please, you have now come forward for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10708	I'm aware that I'm likely to get a warning, but I have to say that here again, there's simply been untrueness, especially in connection with the Marrakech Agreement, as far as I know, the Prime Minister wasn't there at all. On the other hand, it is a document that allows each UN Member State to choose measures to determine its migration policy. So at all, it dictates nothing at all, let alone that it allows illegal migration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10709	Thank you very much. This was a beautiful replica that really referred to what it is, but it's a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. My colleague Bulj, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10710	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd say to my colleague Reiner. In 238 and that he was not Prime Minister Plenkovic, but he was the Deputy Prime Minister in Marrakesh and that only HS in the EU who did not discuss the compact, even the Bundestag debated whatever Angela Merkel imposed on us the Marrakech Agreement. So HS and we undemocraticly accepted the Marrakech compact, you're partly right, it's in the case... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10711	Thanks, buddy Bull. The time has gone, and you have received a warning very simply, clearly and logically. Let's move on. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10712	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the report by the Prime Minister, the annual report by the Prime Minister, as provided for by Article. 128. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, but which, unlike the previous reports submitted by the Prime Minister in HS, I would say on two terms, to mandate 13. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, chaired by Andrej Plenkovic and this 14th. Government of the In that sense, I, too, will look first at the part relating to the 13th government, and what period can we come up with or spend until the beginning of the panedemia, regardless of what the government has continued to lead Croatia further, but that second part will then look more at this government. This part of this annual report, which we can observe by February 25th, when the first infected coronary virus in Croatia was established, when Croatia and the world were affected by an epidemic or the pandemic of the coronary virus, was the period during which the government continued its policies of a very successful policy, which eventually led to support in the July 5th elections, and which makes the policy aware of the success triangle of financial consolidation, structural reform and investment promotion. When we talk about this financial consolidation, then thanks to this financial consolidation we had spent from 2016 until 2020, we were able to support the Croatian economy this strongly, stand behind the Croatian economy, behind Croatian entrepreneurs, because that was not the way it was, that our public debt was at the level of which we inherited in 2016, then we would not be able to be as strong and strong as the state to provide the economy and to preserve jobs, the liquidity of entrepreneurs and their business activities. And this period that we can observe until the conclusion of last year, so by the end of 2019, you remember the period during which we grew about 3% of GDP at the annual level, which marked the unmarked surplus of the state budget in the three years that included wage growth, pension growth, growth of social benefits, reduction of the tax press and tax burden on Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. What is important as a result of the fact that both international and credit agencies have recognised in the Croatian government and in the Croatian state that implements its obligations neatly, which knows how to manage its finances, and as a result, we have very quickly established an investment credit rating. As this credit investment rating means, Croatia may have shown the best February of this year, and we forget today that in February of this year, the Croatian government issued bonds on 15 billion kuna, and that one yearly transaction saved 716 million kuna, and that until that day, only part of the public debt of 15 billion paid 900, 826 million kuna interest, and after that transaction, only 109 million kuna. We forget it today dragged into these political often times games that we witness today during a statement on behalf of clubs about this year's government report, but what is important we forget. And that's that we made it to the 3rd year. Make the state a neat, orderly one, that we have reduced our obligations to the citizens, that we have reduced the tax press, and on the other hand increased the wages, increased all those cuts from the state budget. So today when I hear that only 100 days after this government has been appointed we're talking about a catastrophic state, we're talking about almost an emergency in the state, I'm wondering where, where is it, where is it being recognized? Although our legal and constitutional system of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the concept of "an emergency", even "a curfew", we can, we can recognise what it means in a substantive sense. This means that at this time, Croatia is organised as a state, so there is no word about any state of emergency, that the Croatian health system, the administration system, the judicial system, the pension system, the welfare system, the executive power, local self-government, the judicial authority, works without any problem despite the fact that we are in one, in one crisis as we often say without precedent and in a health and economic crisis. And in such conditions, we have proven that as a state, we know how to deal with this great challenge and that this government and the previous one, and this government know how to manage this crisis, they know how to manage it. When Croatia was showered like other European countries, including other countries of the world with a wave of epidemics, we in the Croatian government and in the ruling majority then made ourselves very serious towards overcoming or finding a solution to overcome the crisis. And I would say it right here right now, that in the ruling majority, we were thinking back then about whether to carry out measures against this great crisis of epidemics and pandemics to rely on an article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or of the Republic of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and then we, and it turns out that we were right, determined according to the implementation of the Article. The 16th Croatian Constitution, which says that certain freedoms and rights of Croatian citizens can be limited by law in certain circumstances when it comes above all to the health of the nation, the health of society. And here at HS we have passed two basic laws that were the basis for the Croatian government, the civil protection headquarters, so that it can deal effectively with these challenges, which I say, until then was unmarked. And we have passed two of the most important laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Protection System Act, in which, in which we have laid down the work and way of working of the National Civil Protection Staff in agreement and cooperation with the regional civil protection headquarters and the other law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in which we have again prescribed what these are and what are the provisions and powers and powers and the Staff and the Minister of Health, but above all what is done under, under the supervision of the Croatian, Croatian, Croatian government. And we found that in this way we could have done what was most important in times of crisis like this health crisis, these epidemics, these infectious, one infectious disease, we had in our hands instruments, tools that we could quickly and promptly solve. That by any chance we relyed on an article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where this assembly or the one prior to the sea was a measure, and how so. 17th Croatian Constitution predicts, bringing in a two-thirds majority, you can think of which speed we could react, for example, to take certain measures on an island, in some place, in a municipality, in a city, etc., etc. and thus we have, and thus we have made clear how and how we will fight the crisis despite the fact that a large part of the opposition, including the President of the Republic, has disputed such a way of working. There has been a debate in the constitutional court that has made it clear that the legislator, in this case HS, is the one to determine whether Croatia will lead its fight against corruption through Article. 16 or 17. That's when we set ourselves up. 17. and the same would be in line with the constitution, only the question of being this effective, and in the fight against disease efficiency, the speed of taking measures is, is crucial and we are and that is and that is, and this is what he said the story behind us in that sense about the ambiguity of the constitutional position of the civil protection headquarters that works under the control of the government. And what was the second strategic definition, I would like to say to those who say that the Croatian government has no strategy, our second strategic definition was, thanks to the government's work, to allow a number of measures, which we brought to HS during March and April 61 measures to enable the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs, which allowed us to preserve jobs and continue, to continue business activities. And that, and that 61 measures are seen in the state budget. We will have here tomorrow at the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget where we will see that in this way only in recent support we have exposed ourselves as a state to private entrepreneurs, which so far has not even been recorded in Croatia over 8 billion kunas of funds sent to over 600,000 private sector employees, in the private sector of 600 000 private sector employees or over 107 000 entrepreneurs, through whom these funds have been delivered to preserve jobs. And today we don't have 400,000 unemployed what the SDP then did in April and March here from this same pay phone suggested that because of such poor, wrong measures, illegal, anti-constitutional measures of the Croatian government, we will be counting 400,000 employees at the end of the summer. Look, look at today, what's the number of non-employees. See today the number of unemployed persons in Croatia, 250 000 less than the number that the black prognosis here predicts, predicted, predicted the opposition. So, we have, we have had both a vision and a strategy how and in what way to act when it comes to fighting crowns both against and against in health and economic terms. Tomorrow, the rebalancing of the state budget will show that this crisis is a major economic crisis which has hit everything and more strongly in the economic and financial sense of the state from the Republic of Croatia, that it will cost us about 30 billion kuna on the one hand, which, on the other hand, by reducing the revenues of the state budget, so for this year, the deficit of the state budget will be around 30 billion kuna and 8% of GDP, as in this year, as we will see and hear tomorrow, will be the decline of GDP in 2020, but that is still less than what we ourselves projected in March when, in April of the month when we did the first rebalance of the state budget for this year, when we said that it would be 9.4%. And we were aware then before the summer that awaits us in the fall, and that here in this assembly we spoke many times, and the opposition was against it. We talked and hinted and assumed that in the autumn of the 10th, at the 11th month there would be a new wave of epidemic, and we rightly took advantage of that time when we recorded 2, 3, 5, 10 new ones at the daily level, when we calmed down then we were an epidemic in Croatia, we used that time to spend, we spent the elections in the Republic at the best time and during the summer of that election and since then, until today, from the elections, so to this day, it was 102-3 days, I don't know now exactly, 100 days since the government of the Republic was formed. And in those 100 days, at the time of the biggest crisis in the last 100 years. Instead of the government that proved effective in that period that preceded the crisis, as in every democratic state there are 100 days, I would say, peace or 100 days of support, so if you want a binco support. What are we witnessing? We are witnessing that in 100 days we already have one impel on government work, that in 100 days we have the formation of an investigative commission going back to, to, to determine that the government does not know, incompetent or even encourages corruption and announced this morning two, two requests for ministers' recall in 100 days of government. It is an opposition in Croatia. And someone has already said about the actions, I think Mr. Bartula said that you should recognize someone by their actions. I only know that from day to day in this assembly, from this left hand side of the assembly, I hear great heavy words about the connective tissue of corruption that connects HDZ, about the criminal organisation, about the Titans of corruption in Croatia. It's coming from this side of the pay phone. Gentlemen, you're a giant word, but you're liputants of action. I do not see your deeds, I do not recognize them, not only do I not recognize them, but they are not recognized by Croatian voters. Because if, instead of those words, if you'd shown yourself to giant deeds, then July 5th would have looked different, you wouldn't have looked, unfortunately, at your side, the way it looks. And we in those 100 days that have been unmarked very quickly resolved and the government issue, we have appointed a government, we have established a coalition on election night, we have brought along, I have not mentioned, we have passed a law that will permanently mark not only this mandate in which we are now located but probably that mandate behind, the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, and we have shown that even during that time when we were in the elections we worked to make this law, a programme of measures was adopted and a fund was established, the fund director was appointed, assumptions were created to go seriously, in the serious renewal of the City of Zagreb and its surroundings. Despite the fact that we have shown in this normative work how we can manage in all crisis situations and when it comes to pandemics and when it comes to rebuilding the City of Zagreb and its surroundings, we have provided financial resources despite or despite all those who oppose the membership of the Croatian EU, which, for whom membership is a loss of sovereignty, etc. etc. It is secured 107, over 170 billion kuna in just 2-3 months through the adoption of a more, multi-annual financial framework, which, by the way, we have not mentioned today that during the whole time the biggest crisis we have been and chaired by the EU Council and addressed the issue of deblock negotiations with, with Macedonia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, etc. etc. while we were winning the elections, while we were struggling with the health crisis, while we were struggling with the economic crisis, we did almost the EU presidency on the way. And we are told of the ability and incompetence of those who, behind whom I do not see works other than words, except words. I say, it's easy not to see it, but to see it, not to see it, not to see it. And what's ahead of us is the message the Prime Minister said this morning in his opening part. Tomorrow we will already have a rebalancing for this year which is better than the one we assumed at the beginning of the year when, when we went into crisis, and thanks to the great work done in these frameworks of the tourist season which then made it possible and better to charge the state budget, so thanks to that. There's a second, second week's budget for next year that predicts 5% growth, and I'm sure it'll be bigger because it's never been in these last 4 years. At the end of the year, we have not recorded fewer declines than those of which GDP growth is lower than the one we plotted a year ago. Therefore, I am convinced that this growth of GDP in the next year of 5% will be achieved, that in 2022 as shown there we will have a growth of 3.4% and that we will already be in 2022. be at the level of 2019, which is our goal. And that the strategy of this government has the best words and the fact that it is already now, already in February, and because of the pandemic, we have extended the adoption of a national development strategy and that we will be able to discuss it very quickly, and that the government will already be preparing it, already in the draft and almost plan of recovery and resilience where we will be able to use over nearly EUR 10 billion to resuscitate, resuscitate everything that this epidemic of the coronary, the coronary virus has done in Croatia. And on that one, I say, on that one, on those examples that I just said, we're saying, we can see what the ability of this and the former government is. And with that I will conclude that fighting corruption, but the way we do it. And as far as I've heard, except for the attacks on HDZ and on the government that label us, muds and libels with different labels, I've heard nothing but that the prime minister and the opposition, including the president of the state, should be familiar with all the reconnaissances in Croatia. And then we talk about the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the judicial authority, the independence of the acts of persecution. We are very clear, zero-rate tolerance to corruption, no untouchable regardless of which stranger or citizen The Republic of [[Intruder: Thank you]] Here in this sense we will support this report by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10713	Thank you very much. Let's move on, please. Let's just get the phone first. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, two MPs, counterparts Miletic and Bulj, will also speak first to counterpart Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10714	Dear President HS, Mr Jandrokovic, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, who seems to have come out to me, Mr Plenkovic, respected members of the government, respected Mr Bukarica, respected colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. So today's topic has been over the years of government work. Where do you start? The most accurate and fairest would be to say that the government's work in the last year marked an unreal catalogue of crises and elementary disasters. If someone asked me to present the most comprehensively in the last year, it could only be expressed in three words, viruses, earthquakes, corruption affairs. I'd dare say we're all tired of the state we live in, the state of the permanent crisis, and in particular I'd say we're most tired of covid. That disease has become the only thing we're talking about, the only thing we're dealing with, the only thing we're thinking about, the only one responsible for all the problems, the excuses for all the mess, or I could afford to say no to work. Such an approach to intimidation resulted in the creation of an atmosphere of fear among citizens and a constant sense of threat. We've been bombarded daily with information about this disease and from that forest like no one sees a tree anymore. In the atmosphere of fear, we organised parliamentary elections where the winners promised safety. Can we ask ourselves today where this promised security went? You feel it? Citizens feel it? I'd rather avoid completely talking about covid because I've had enough of it already, and I trust many citizens, but covid wanted or didn't want to hit our lives, so he decided the government's work. Our citizens responded to the circumstances of the epidemic with extraordinaryness, with dignity, discipline, followed the recommendations of the profession, and many people showed incredible solidarity and willingness to help those who needed help most. Spring lockdown Croatia has suffered relatively well and we were all convinced that by respecting the recommendations and rules we will defeat the virus, the spread of the virus through strict measures has managed to temporarily stop it. However, as time has shown, the spread of the virus has only delayed. The virus remained among us waiting for more favourable circumstances to spread and welcomed them with the arrival of autumn. In addition to the health problems of the coronary virus, the virus has also raised a number of other issues and created numerous challenges, social, social, economic in the first place. In a special way, he exposed all the shortcomings and irrationalities of our state planning and the way the state institutions function. It's not hard to remember a total lockdown where we could cross the municipal and city borders just by the passes. Sudden cases such as the one where a man is punished for going to his field in a neighboring municipality have shown all the senselessness of the existing territorial structure because such municipalities as their residents have no mail, no doctor or gas station, or when old and powerless citizens in a lockdown were forced to go to a shop 2.5 km away. Do you know why dear colleagues and colleagues? Because that store is in their area, and the store that's 60 meters away, I'm talking about Spinčići Street in Kastav, that store is located in another municipality, and then the old and the impotence of people de facto and deiure walked 2.5 km in the rain, in the wind because they were in violation if they went to a store that was on the territory of their municipality. They were terrible pictures of the police, who literally legitimized the pensioners outside the store, making them go to the other one I was just talking about. It's not right, it's not fair, it's not Croatia we want. As an example, we can also take citizens' communication with state institutions that have been organised in just a few weeks so that most of our citizens' demands could be resolved by electronic communication, by simple mail, while before the covid for some things it was necessary to pay homage, I would almost say, by countless counters and collect paper. The fact that in such a short time, we managed to organize ourselves in a solid way and functioned has brought us some optimism. To encourage this optimism and sense of social solidarity, the public, the media, and also the political scene lively discussed how this crisis will change us better, how such necessary reforms will finally begin, and how when we overcome the crisis we will live much better in a decent and orderly society. Now we see such debates died after the elections, they were overshadowed by corruption affairs, political quarrels and bickering, and an impenetrable covid. I want to believe we haven't missed the last train for change yet, for reform. If nothing, after the local elections in May 2021. We have a favourable longer period without a choice and this period will also be the biggest test of the government's reform capabilities and potential. Today, our health system suffers enormous pressure and its capacities have already been stretched to the extreme limits, and what is difficult to see if the government has any concrete plan or is going to leave the epidemic with all its consequences to the verse? In doing so, the question arises as a dilemma whether the government will win the virus or lose the battle? Unfortunately, here I am if I had some decree I would give it out of an opposition truly open heart. If some government decree could overwrite the virus and it's gone, but winning the virus isn't the government's job. The government's task is to ensure that life takes place under the conditions of an epidemic as effective as possible without unnecessary intimidation of citizens, raising panic or threatening unnecessary repression. In this sense, we at MOST offered the government to draft and deliver a report on the work of the civil protection headquarters, to see what was well done and to praise it, what measures were unsuccessful, and that perhaps we are criticising it, and that we all share our thoughts, suggestions and measures on how to proceed. So far, we have not received any response from the ruling majority to this initiative. We respect the right of the majority to ignore our demands, to demand opposition, but then don't come to the assembly asking us to give you a binco cover for what you do or what you failed to do. Then, the Honorable Prime Minister who you are not here right now will be transferred to you, you can't call for a consensus like you did here yesterday on the topical. Democracy shouldn't work like that. Nowhere in the democratic world has there been a case for a parliament to transfer its powers to the government or to any other body such as the headquarters without any control mechanisms. We don't have that anywhere. The past months, but next year too, will be a major test for the Croatian economy. The prime minister said the same thing, he's deeply aware of it. Public finances, and thus also for the existence of Croatian citizens, and the negative consequences on the economy will be far and deep and certainly longer than what different analysts initially announced. Covid-19 has in the same way as in public and state systems revealed most of the weaknesses of our economy based on tourism and service activities of relatively low value, the Croatian economy suffered a major blow and a greater decline than the average of Central Europe with which we can at least compare somewhat. So-called In a curve that involves a sharp and a major downturn of the economy, and then a sharp and quick recovery in a short time after a few months, they showed things as a clack or a good unfulfilled wish that we would all want to happen, but they won't. The recovery will, however, be slower and longer-term and not because of the lack of measures to combat the consequences of the crisis but simply because the Croatian economy in its structure and performance is nowhere near developed and stable economies. Tourism has suffered a major decline, exports have fallen, and foreign foreign exchange accounts have fallen, and after summer, we also record a higher drop in unemployment, and these are objective circumstances in which our economy is located. In this situation, everyone, including the government, has turned their eyes on the EU and Brussels and not only Croatia, should be open, and some other EU member states have very openly requested EU assistance, asking that public debts in this crisis are in some way solidarity and that some form of more favourable joint borrowing is allowed. Otherwise, the principle of solidarity in contractual law when borrowing in a particular way connects debtors because each of the solidarity debtors is responsible for the obligations of the other that all these facts will reflect on the issue of further EU integration remains to be seen, but surely the links between the Member States will not weaken. In this story, Croatia shares the fate of other less developed EU countries, which, due to the need for fresh money, have in fact very narrowed elections. Recalling the events of the previous period, especially all of us have been cut apart by the unloved images of the earthquake and the destroyed Zagreb. The Zagrebers suffered damage and fear, and unfortunately we lost a young life. Even today, some people have not been able to return to their homes, and many live in fear of every little more powerful tremor. After the elections here in the assembly, a special Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties was passed. These days we see the first major activities in order to put the provisions of this law into office and bring life to life. Is it possible to predict how this law will work in practice? At this point, let's be honest, hard. But we need to be aware that the experience of passing specific laws that are passed over a single event and which have limited application in every respect teaches us that such laws are regularly burdened by the subsequent knowledge that they have served more benefits than the citizens. It is not the first time that the government and parliament react to a greater character threat by passing ad hoc laws in which many have found some benefit that does not belong to them under regular circumstances. That's why we're in opposition, I'm going to use it, here's the picture I'm going to express myself, keep my eyes open. And here we come to the inevitable constant of Croatian politics, corruption. It is difficult not to notice that this new government was welcomed immediately after the elections by the numerous tails of the previous government, it is difficult to take the impression that even the appointments of state secretaries in the ministries have been difficult until it is seen which names will come up in some current investigations, do not underestimate the Croatian public or someone might say you can, but until we see it. And then, like the crown of everything, like a bomb, Pam, the Janaf affair exploded. Another story that has all the elements of a good criminal, some dark, Norse tradition, and has eventually revealed the system by which the state currently operates. The affair was followed by a bile fight at the political summit. But when this fog of bickering moves, we are left with the knowledge that we live in a country where there is no idea what the state summit should or should not know, in which we are wondering without an answer what the impact of politics on the DORH, the judiciary, and ultimately there is no idea what the state protocol is on the cemetery. When I look at the events of the past few weeks, I wonder what message our citizens can get out of everything? Has anyone ever wondered what they think about this, corruption, political disputes? Has anyone ever wondered what's bothering people, what are their real problems while fighting and fighting? What irritates people? How can we help them? If we could all shut up together and listen to people, we'd hear that injustices piss them off, feeling like we're not all equal in front of the law, in front of courts or in public administration. It upsets them because they see that not everyone in Croatia has equal rights for a good life. I often hear people say the state is a mother to some, others a wicked stepmother. It shouldn't be like that. It pisses them off even when the state and its institutions for which the entire nation fought is being identified with any party, MOST, if you will, any, because the state belongs to all its citizens, not any party, not any group of people. If we haven't figured that out by now, then we haven't learned anything because everyone more directed is clearly party, the regimes are passing, the state should be the one to stay. Let me have the digression, everything passes except for the dear God. People are upset and when they are convinced that something green is actually red, when politicians say without blinking in the eye of the camera "Croatia is an example of fighting corruption". People want to be free and responsible, but free. Severe social crises, exceptional circumstances such as this pandemic put first the question of the freedom of every individual in society and of the most difficult issues such as listening to citizens, controlling movement, some imposition, we need to talk here in this honorable home and here to reach consensus. It's possible and I really believe it, it's possible. Everything can be much better. It would be good, at least it's my great desire to see in the next report of this respected Prime Minister, how all of us, despite our differences, can still be a little bit more respected and when we should have put our backs all together to make our people better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10715	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian citizens, folks, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Medved, I'm sorry he's not here as prime minister. In one part, I will briefly, I don't need much time, he mentioned radicalism and extremism in Croatia. That individual cases will judge them, but never will Prime Minister Plenkovic to you from most of your coalition partners, I will not agree to impose on the Croatian people extremism and radicalism whether the Croatian people are neither extreme nor radical, and in continuity this is imposed, and even genocide is going on. Of course, I'll mention the safety of citizens who are very important here. We must note that the Croatian government has adopted the Marrakesh Agreement without discussion in HS, through a non-democracy procedure because it has imposed and accepted and now we have a huge problem when we see what happened in France, what happened in Austria we have extremism, Islam and we see what is happening. Who's going to take over and who's going to answer to what's now crossing our border of people, migrants without any control? For years, we have been looking for, since we came to this assembly, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, to assist the Croatian police in protecting the Croatian border in accordance with the law. He mentioned the prime minister of renewable resources. Yes, renewable sources are the source from which Croatian citizens are being robbed, from the greatest resources and potential, from hydropower alone, 100 times I mentioned, only the river Cetina gives 40% of the hydropower, Krš-Padjane, so look what Krš-Padjane is, so those people who live on that part know how they live, very hard. These areas are exclusively exploitation fields. When we talk about the earthquake that was here in Zagreb and it is difficult to experience the earthquake and this crisis that happened. However, in 2/3 of Croatia it is much worse than in Zagreb after the earthquake. Trust me, devastated, devastated and nobody cares about those 2/3 of Croatia. What about those ends? Only in my Cetina region from last year to this we have 42 children less entered in kindergarten, Croatia was destroyed. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10716	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10717	Mr. Vice-President HS, the Honorable Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. A report submitted by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to this home this morning, as far as the SDSS Representatives' Club is concerned, is comprehensive and balanced. Comprehensive in content and balanced in expression. It represents the country's strategic objectives in economics in the consolidation of the state in its international position and at the same time represents the way the state intends to approach it, how government policy intends to approach it. The good part of those years that this report refers to is the political consolidation that has been carried out in our country. An extremely important process that has not really been completed yet, but a good part of this process has been done. At one point, the country leaned too far towards extreme policies, adventure policies,... Better say it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And lately, in the past four years. The country has been centered in this respect and politics, the leading policy has been centered in the right centre, but also on the poles of both right and left center, and this is in the opinion of the party I run and the club to which I belong well for this country. In this regard, the government has chosen the policy of the right centre with partners who lead and the policies that are the left center or centre and that's good. The fact that some here call it the Croatian-Serbian coalition is people who don't understand anything. They do not understand what is happening before their eyes and what is actually happening in Croatia, and they do not know what is the Croatian-Serbian coalition because if they knew with respect they would talk about it, but when the second time comes I will read some quotes from the time of key actors and the coalition that meant Croatian freedom, unity, independence and for Serbs who did so together with the Croats. We forgot that, and here some people are doing it lightly in an offensive way, inciting hatred for members of the Serb community and for a government that doesn't deserve it. Had there been no time to spend on this kind of political consolidation, Croatia could have been more consolidated both as a state and as an economy, but it should have spent that time. And I hope that we have learned that returning to non-consolidated politics in the country, political adventure in the country would be another extremely dangerous process. This was the first wave of the covid epidemic, the earthquake came in Zagreb and the Zagreb area that did not calm down, as the second one came out of covida. In such circumstances, lead the government and politics, lead this assembly and discuss it requires responsible policy and responsible people, not those who will be silent, not those who will not notice what can be done better and what is bad, but also this government as well as any other Croatian or any other need opposition, but what we have been through by 2016 does not need to be spread hate, there is no need to promote radicalism, there is no need for pseudo-sovereignism as we have already had in Croatia in the history of no sovereignty but was actually a betrayal of Croatia, and I will talk about it at some other time. I would like to say a few words on the economy, an extremely important topic and what the prime minister was talking about and what is an important topic in the government's programme. I will focus on what I think we have to be committed and focused on except what some like colleagues of Bulja have rightly pointed out, balanced regional development in our country for which we pay a high price of non-integrated, non-connection and risk of further disintegration and still weak links because certain parts of Baranja, Slavonia, Western Slavonia, Bania, Korduna, Like, Dalmatia, as if they are not part of Croatia, and then Dalmatia and all other parts that unfortunately cannot be long-term because tourism cannot and cannot be a long story, nor enough story, can they be sufficiently connected to Slavonia, with Zagreb, with other parts and that is our problem. And I'm sure the government at the head of the prime minister knows that and that it is necessary for these weaknesses to prevail. Where we see as a party the necessary step, the necessary breakthrough is the area of agriculture. I was in my homeland in Ravni Kotari and the Vran region of Pakostane, Biograd, Zadar, Benkovec the day before the Sištites. I know what Slavonia looks like, I know what other parts look like, we don't use our country. We have surplus signs and symbols that should no longer be in that space, and we have a lack of work with the country and dedication, a country that we should not only love by drilling into the chest but by working, working, and we will probably have to change a lot of things in the policy of incentives and in the policy of priorities. The same goes for energy. There's room in the energy especially for the sun, for solar energy. The wind energy needs to be seen whether we are using it in the best way, and certainly we need to use alternative energy sources as add-ons to basic sources because we have space, we have opportunities and we increase our security as a country, while at the same time increasing the ecological quality of space in our country. As for the third key, I think probably the most demanding stories in economic development, these are new technologies and new industries. There's a lot of space devoted to digitalization, digital technologies in the government program. It will take a lot of time and space to figure out what good examples there are, but there are few in our country that I don't mention them here now because some of them might not mention them, that they're multiplying because we can't rebuild what happened until the '90s, that kind of technology, that kind of industry we can't even have in Bakru anymore, but we can't have around Zagreb, but we can have new industries and we need new industries based on new technologies. Although we colleagues and colleagues here in the assembly should have a consensus. Of course, an industry that will be followed by socially responsible, unionally developed types of culture. As far as the state is concerned, we're still colleagues and colleagues, especially some of us, I'm not saying it as a reproach, but I'm finding it a fact, we're still trapped in a romantic notion of the state instead of in functional understanding of the state. We still have nationalist patriotism more important than constitutional patriotism. We still care more about nationalist charge than how much legality we have in this country and how much we don't have. And if the government is focused on paying attention to constitutional patriotism in different segments as assumptions of the functioning of different segments of the state, then some people appear, so you're betraying the state. So that kind of patriotism they're talking about, it takes in the first half of the year or five years at most when the state is being created. Today we need a state, a commitment to the Constitution of her and her law and the persecution of every one, ugly, false view of who wrongs the law, and who deserves more, of course, the judicial process and the penalties. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we have long been saying that we want a professional, ethical, efficient and judicial which will be respected by the citizens and we always return to the fact that we do not have it yet. We don't have any colleagues and colleagues today either. We do not have a sufficiently harmonised relationship between us here in the legislative body, civil society, academic community and judicial institutions. If we had more harmonisation in this regard, and less lobbying influences, were those of capital, were those of political elitism or of the judiciary, we would have a better judiciary. But I don't want to talk about it anymore. There are people here who are more invited to speak on the subject. As for the administration, we're not a big country even though we have many units of local self-government. But that's not the biggest problem either. The biggest problem is that we are burdening our administration on one side, unnecessary employment, and on the other hand, what we have deadened our administration. Professionalism in the administration does not mean death, but commitment to work and modernisation in doing business. And we don't have it yet. As far as politics is concerned, the Prime Minister was talking about tolerance. That's right. I have been in Croatia's political life for 30 years, if we don't count the short period of struggle for, participation in democratic processes until the first elections. It is indeed time that after 30 years we talk more about strengthening tolerance than strengthening war and war policies. This is important for our mutual political relations, it is important how we as citizens view each other, regardless of which political, religious or national beliefs and feelings we may have. That's the 17th century when fathers of democracy write about it. As for the work of trust in the country, we have been and will remain committed to it, however anyone looks here in this hall. And tried to characterize it however anyone wants, whoever thinks it was easy for Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic and the party to whom it belongs to to make a decision to go to Knin in the way he went with full consciousness and pride, so that today someone here might be demeaning and saying it's nothing. That someone needs to be told I'm sorry. That one doesn't understand the language and the messages that are being sent, which we haven't sent since yesterday, maybe it's someone from yesterday in the Parliament. But I'm not, we're not. We've been doing it since '96. Since '95. when the Erdutic Agreement was signed, whose 25th anniversary we are marking today, when President Tudjman first invited me to take part in the council he formed without even knowing what would follow. And he followed a grand plan to create peace in Croatia. Trust and good relations with neighbors. Now there are those who are bigger than Tudjman. They're not bigger, they're not even up to their ankles, except they don't know it. Finally, some talk about what the Serbian community should do and what it is. And if it didn't contain some kind of petty relevance to answer that, I wouldn't answer that. So someone thinks that the identity of Serbs in Croatia should be reduced to traditional culture, probably to Orthodox or Cyrillic, but where they say it is possible, you understand nothing. And I'm afraid that's how they don't understand Croatian identity, and that's how they'd bring down and want consciousness and Croatian national identity. It's like the Croats don't have political identity. It's like they don't have a long history of freedom without which there's no identity. My colleagues and colleagues, and for Serbs in Croatia there are 3 important components of their identity, freedom. The freedom tradition, which we from the SDSS share, I continue and we know that we shared with our fellow citizens and with us the nearest people of Croatia, but also that with others. Constitutional patriotism is not nationalism. Since the moment I took any role in leading the Serbian community, constitutional patriotism has been first. National feelings were feelings that were important, but constitutional patriotism must be an important part of the identity of each of us, including Serbs in Croatia. Antifascism, someone will say it means nothing anymore. So it's pretty good. Whoever doesn't see it doesn't know what's waiting for us tomorrow. Anyone who wants to be some people in Perusic, or some in Grazac or elsewhere move anti-fascist monuments with crypts and remains do not understand what they are doing to their country. Contributions from persons of Serbian nationality, individuals of Serbian nationality in different parts of Croatia and activities from politics, science, culture, education, medicine, art is huge but we don't know that. In schools children learn eventually something about Tesla whose monument is still waiting for a place in Gospić, and in 2004, it was also built in 2005 or 2006. Are we asking someone to apologize to us for that? No, I don't. We know what it is. We know that this is the creation of a different Croatia and a better place for Serbs in Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will accept this report and support the government's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10718	Dear representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10719	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I request a break from the Sovereignist Club for 10 minutes to further consult the Government Report of the Republic of Croatia. But here I must point out that it was amazing for me to listen to a member of the ruling coalition and to experience it at representatives in the Croatian Parliament where he, among other things, said his party colleague, Boris Milosevic, was extremely difficult to go to Knin. That day, all those who are patriots, who love you, you said patriots and loved your country with joy go to Knin because that day was defeated by the SAO Krajina. The day was defeated by the Chetniks who destroyed, destroyed the Croatian state, and that day we celebrate as the day of victory, a victory over the SAO Krajina, a victory over the rebel armed Chetnik. And if Boris Milosevic is hard to go to Knin that day, don't go. If that's hard for you to admit, say it loud and clear. And let's never forget one thing, that members of your national minority took guns in 91st year and destroyed and destroyed Croatia. If you and your partner Andrej Plenkovic are bothered that I call your coalition Croatian-Serbian or Serbian-Croatian trade coalition, there was such a coalition in the past that from 906 to 918 if I am not mistaken, what is the problem? What's the matter with you? Are you from the Serbian Democratic Party or Independent Democratic Serb Party? Is he from the Croatian Democratic Community? Well, I think it's a simple equation that it's a Croatian-Serbian or Serb-Croatian coalition. If I added another small addition to the trade, I think the Croats and Croats understand me very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10720	Yeah, I think yours, you gave the speech and you didn't ask for a break. But if you agree, we wouldn't give a break because we have a free speech right now. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you accept? ... We have a free speech later, and I'm saying you used this to give a speech, not a request for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: What's the problem?]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 2.30 A.M.]] The next is Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10722	First of all, I don't really see anyone here as proposing. Maybe I'm wrong? So we're discussing the government's report that none of the members of the government are present in the Parliament, so I don't know how common it is. Well, here we can wait for them in that sense. Because I mean who do I tell about the government report if there's no one from the government? I mean, what's the point of that? I mean, the Prime Minister has been so far. But if anything, there were a few vice presidents, I don't see anyone now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10723	We'll see who's here from the government and we'll... Here you go, Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10724	Okay. Here's a vice president of the government, so I'll continue my speech. Since this was the government's annual report and what kind of speech this was, it was good, it described this country so well that at one point I thought I was in the Danish Parliament and listening to the Danish prime minister describe the situation in his country, like a parallel state. It's as if we're not in a state, as if we're not living in a country where young people flee to other countries because they don't see any perspective here if they don't have a HDZ party card, here's how the prime minister described the state of the nation or the state of this state while he runs this government. But, of course, that's not the case. Not a single problem, but absolutely no problem has the prime minister listed in this country. There's no mention of any problems in the context of saying here are some challenges, we'll work more here, we'll work more there, we haven't been successful enough here. It's not gonna happen. You're doing it all by yourself. Honey and milk flow through this country and everything is perfect according to the report submitted by the Prime Minister. I can only agree with him when he says the mandate of this HDZ government has marked the crisis. They are because when HDZ rules this country, Croatia is automatically in crisis. I'm going to comment on some of the Prime Minister's statements from this opening statement. The prime minister says, "We have raised the level of social security of citizens." I don't see citizens seeing it and feeling it on their living conditions, on their wallet, and I don't see how Croatia is being realised as a social state, which is also a constitutional category, where it is a righteous redistribution between the rich and the poor. I will remind some information that Croatia is at the bottom of the European Union according to the share of taxes on high and higher wages and wealth. For example, Denmark, mentioned at the outset, has 31% of its share of high- and higher-paying GDP, 31%. Do you know how many Croatia has? 6.6%. We are the third member state down by how much we tax the rich to make a transfer to the poor. So, this government is constantly represented as a socially sensitive government, as the government that Robin Hood is government, which out of the rich gives to the poor, and in fact the facts are being denied and we could call this government the Robin Poor government and in this direction the Robin Poor is being announced and tax reform of which will benefit only those who have the highest wages in this country. He says the prime minister will treat waste as a valuable resource and improve waste separation. Nothing, but nothing has been done in this country since the end of January when the Constitutional Court suspended the application of an amendment to the Community Waste Management Regulation. The Constitutional Court suspended the application of the Waste Regulation because it failed to comply with the objective of environmental protection, which, as far as I know, and I am engaged in long-term environmental protection has never happened. It means that the law means that the environmental regulation does not meet the objectives of environmental protection. It therefore suspended the constitutional court of objections, the application of the Waste Management Regulation, and that there is no new waste collection system in a way that will stimulate separate collection of waste in the household for recycling and composting. So nothing has been done since January when the disastrous regulation, fortunately suspended by the constitutional court. Energy. The prime minister says we will increase investment in wind energy. If you're going to increase investment like that. in the winds of Krsh-Paden, you better not, you better not if that's how you plan to increase investment in wind energy. So because of the profit adjustment, the unwarranted earnings from the state budget that is being paid, more than 2 billion kunas to the selected investor through HDZ ties, means more than 2 billion kunas will be lost from the state budget. To put it in some context, in the light of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and the environment, it says that the costs of the renovation will be around 42 billion kuna. So 20 projects such as Krš-Paden earnings that we have provided from the budget for the furnished project is enough to restore Zagreb and its surroundings according to the costs as defined in the law itself, 20 projects such and we have all the money for this reconstruction phase that does not strengthen resilience, but gives some first... How many more of these projects are there that we still don't know about them until they leak like those who are related to the Joseph Rimac affair. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaking of earthquakes, the Rehabilitation Act said the prime minister that we were protesting, that we were protesting because we were not satisfied with how quickly that law was passed. If we hadn't protested it would probably have been later adopted, we were dissatisfied and I can't believe that the country couldn't be found, faster to react and find more adequate accommodation for just 500 people whose homes were destroyed in an earthquake in Zagreb. They were first placed, there is responsibility, co-responsibility and the City of Zagreb, they were first placed in a student centre, eventually moved to a hostel. Measures to help financial people rent apartments did not help many because they could not find an apartment. Why? Because it's an unregulated housing market, because we don't have a housing policy, because they couldn't find an apartment that apartment owners would like to rent to them because they're saving their apartments for... and a short-term lease because they hope that when this crisis is over, they will still rent their apartments more expensive and more luxuriantly to tourists, not to the inhabitants of Zagreb who are affected by the earthquake. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this government's housing policy has been reduced to subsidising housing loans, housing loans that the vast majority of young people cannot afford, are not, are not even available to them because Croatia is at the very top in the form of overwork and many young people are not at all creditworthy, and we are not building public apartments for renting other countries and therefore Croatia has about 2% of public apartments for rent, and the EU average is 14%. If we are not building public apartments for rent in what way we can actually influence the fact that young people in this country are leaving the parent home in the EU for over 30 years. age on average leaves the parent home because they can't afford to afford housing in any way, or buy it because they often can't raise a loan, and then these subsidy measures are not available to them, or to rent an apartment with a tax system that, where 10 times you have to pay a bigger tax to rent an apartment to city residents, means a domestic population compared to tourists. Well, that's our tax system. As far as education is concerned, says the prime minister, we have implemented reforms in education. I don't know what reforms? You are not a complete curricula reform because these are reforms that solved the problem that we still have cases of hungry children in schools in the 21st century today. So we haven't provided our children, our children in all schools with a hot meal, there's no money for it, but there's money for military planes, and you see in the studies of public change what people think about how much money in this situation is spent on military planes, and for hot meals in schools is still not solved. A surrogate called “The School of Life ” has been introduced instead of so much of the necessary civic training. Time was lost in the summer to prepare the educational system for the epidemic, who, the repeat government, waited for the last moment to determine any scenarios of how school and academic years would be spent. Nothing has been done to extend these preschool and school capacities, to make public and accessible education more accessible because it remains unreachable to many citizens, especially preschool education, and even in cities. Higher education left to itself. We have situations where we have the will of individual university rectors. You know very well, Prime Minister, I suppose you know what he does and hides behind the autonomy of the University of Zagreb. How he behaves, who, as an autocrat, one who chooses who will be the dean of individual members of the university. It means university autonomy, but the autonomy of the university's constituents can be violated by the rector. Nothing changes there. As far as health care is concerned, one of the most important sectors, and probably one of the most neglected and no nail can change that. About this, more colleagues Bencic will also talk about debts which and about the oligo... The major drug industry and the situation of not making changes that would then make the health system much more resistant and galloping privatisation of the health care that former health minister Kujundzic has initiated, etc. etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Justice, 6. Lasts the procedure for Milan Bandic since he was arrested, 6th year. for the Agram affair. Not that there's no wrongful verdict, not that there's no rightful one, there's no wrongful judgment. For 10 years it lasted, the proceedings lasted for Tommy Horvatincic, as many repeated trials and ultimately, a man was sentenced to more than 4 years in prison, however, did not execute the prison sentence. So political and economic powers are not equal under the law. Citizens know very well when they are persecuted by the state for how long such judicial proceedings take, for example, how long they need to be carried out. Corruption, the prime minister says, has no untouchable corruption, but HDZ continues to block the parliamentary investigative commission, and there is no untouchable. 76% of citizens, according to the latest opinion survey, believe the government will not win the fight against corruption. So how's he gonna get when a dozen ministers had to leave the government for corruption charges? How will they get when HDZ leads this government, and HDZ is on charges of corruption in the FIMI MEDIA affair trial for 10 years. It's been 10 years. My colleague will go on about other topics, I'll just finish. Croatia needs a complete developmental turn, needs a generation shift, needs a new, more modern view of the challenges of the 21st century and needs an unfettered fight against corruption, against inequality and against injustice. With this government, Croatia is unfortunately not going to get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10725	I thank the Honorable Vice President, Prime Minister, in my part of the speech, for what is actually a burning problem for all citizens, and that is this Covid crisis. The prime minister today said in the context of the general crisis, as well as the Covid crisis, that the greatest responsibility is on the individual. I must say, I do not agree with this claim for a very simple reason that this country is not a crowd of individuals but a society. Transferring responsibility to an individual is one paradigm actually of this government, actually, maybe good that we heard it today and here. The Covid crisis is managed so that they are citizens. The issue of execution, blames citizens, social and other problems, blames citizens, environmental protection, let citizens take responsibility. But I repeat, we are not a bunch of individuals, we are a society, and society has values and there are standards that individuals must also have economic and social personal prosperity. The way in which we set these values and based them, norms, greatly determines the possibility of each individual and his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/it. Covid is managed in a way that this responsibility is transferred, citizens themselves are guilty, citizens have to respect the measures and the truth is that each of us must make it as possible to protect himself and others, but the state must create a framework in which these risks are minimised, and in the event of citizen disease, they must be guaranteed the highest possible degree of health care. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Croatia right now. However, in order to do so, in order to achieve this goal, the crisis must be managed, the health system should be managed, not in the way we normally do, which has just been exposed in this Covid crisis as fragmented, not to say feudal, but by applying health system management plans in crisis situations. To illustrate, for days we've been hearing problems from healthcare professionals in KB Dubrava, we're talking about lack of food supply for patients, lack of medication, lack of electricity, lack of staff or equipment for the treatment of Covid patients, we hear there's a lack of respirator. Yesterday we heard an example that fully illustrates to me that we lost, or that Minister Beros lost control of the health system. So yesterday, there were talk of nurses from Rebra who self-organized and went to Covid Hospital in Dubrav for help. That's where nurses were supposed to take them in and integrate them. It's not about their media conflict, it's about how we manage the crisis when healthcare professionals have to self-organize and offer each other help? Is that how we understand health care crisis management? Furthermore, do we know what we're doing and if we have this plan B when the crisis occurs, we stop the way we've had our health management in the normal situation, we move on to plan B of the crisis. Then, in that case, not every hospital for itself, every department for itself, every doctor for itself and every nurse for itself, can make decisions. Decisions should be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder who it is that should make decisions on the schedule of people and equipment at the level of Croatia. Are those sisters and doctors? Who is it that needs to know how much and where there is a respirator, where there is excess and where there is shortages and how to manage it? Who should know? Technicians, hospital directors? Who is it that should determine at this point what are the priority health services and care that can not be delayed or put on hold at the time of the pandemic, which are secondary, which are possibly possible so that citizens know what they can count on, where and under what conditions? Should that be determined by the nurses and doctors themselves, every department for themselves? Who's the one who should determine objective criteria for the number of patients, and the number... Please don't make a phone call while we're talking in the conference room, it's really not very polite to make a phone call. So who is it that should determine objective criteria of the number of patients and the number of patients hospitalized in relation to hospital facilities and say, no, irresponsiblely say we will not introduce lockdown or we will introduce lockdown, but when, under what conditions go what measures. We still haven't defined it and citizens still don't know it, entrepreneurs don't know it. The craftsmen don't know, but every day they watch on TV what headquarters will say about tomorrow. So is that a normal situation? It's not a crisis management that's proactive, it's a reactive crisis management, and we don't need that. The key problem we have inside the headquarters is the inseparability of the epidemiological profession and the political level of decision-making and for this reason we are asking for measures to be proposed in the form of recommendations by epidemiologists. However, that decision is taken by the Government, and in the event that the proposed measures limit the constitutional rights of the citizens of Parliament by 2/3 of the majority in accordance with Article 17. The Constitution. Why? Because it must be clear who it is that has political responsibility for decisions. It is clear to us and reasonable and acceptable that not every epidemiological recommendation can become a decision for itself, that there are other interests and that the government must put them in some proportion. But then the Government, or this Parliament, must make that decision in order to know who is responsible, not to take responsibility for a body that has neither political responsibility nor political legitimacy. I'll go back to something you said, Mr. Bacic. You told me we passed the law. We passed the law and thus constitutionally regulated the situation because the law prescribed that the headquarters could take measures. You see, not according to the European Court of Human Rights, his practice is not the law that is called by law, but must have a certain quality. Two basic qualities are clarity and predictability. Predictability means that everyone must be clear in the letter of the laws which are permitted and which are prohibited. If we adopt such measures from day to day they do not stand by the law, they do not have the quality of the law and we cannot say that we are in line with constitutional requirements and constitutional situations. So, we ask from all of these, that this Parliament and we will put in the procedure a conclusion that will change the model of crisis management, implement these five requirements, coordinate the work of civil protection headquarters with the Constitution and create assumptions that we have the trust of citizens again, work out and implement the existing health system management plan in an emergency not in a way that has been done but centralised at Croatia level, ensure predictability from the introduction of epidemiological measures and link to the projections of the number of hospitalized, ensure investment in hospital facilities and increase the number of people in critical wards in hospitals Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10726	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First respected representative Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10727	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 18, which states that a parliamentary representative can ask for all the professional help he will receive if he does not know something and should know more about it. It's really degutant to listen to these meals that we've heard here without any reasonable facts and distortions as the facts that are now in place, and so are those that prejudge the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10728	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you not to abuse it. And the fact that someone isn't telling the truth, that he's lying, that he's making things up here in the House is going to his soul, but it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking you not to abuse it and I'm warning you about it. The next one was the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. And forgive me, the First Honored Representative is Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10729	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague injured Article 238. So he's talking about nurses here as a group of disorganized people, or that they themselves organized to go to the hospital for help. They have their employer and they, if they will go to Dubrava, will get a warrant from their legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10730	My colleague Simičević is also worth what I said, and his colleagues are not injured by the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to think hard about the rest of them. My colleague Bačić and Tomašević will receive warnings because it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure in this House, unfortunately, and I am not the one who can assess and want to assess whether anyone here is lying, inventing or telling the truth. Therefore, I ask you nicely not to use instead of a replica of which of course no one has the right when speaking clubs, the Institute of Abuse, the Institute of Replication of this violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I have to give you a warning, too. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238. A Rules of Procedure in which Mrs Bencic demeans and insults other MPs. She called me personally, so I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure so I don't know what the law is. I know that you are Mrs. Bencic and a constitutional expert, that you are a health manager, that you are a doctor only that no one in this country sees it, so here we are now and we noticed that all of this that you are here is unfounded, that it is false, that it deceives the public and that things stand completely different because Mrs. Bencic's Croatian health system is great at dealing with this crisis but you don't see it as yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10732	Thank you very much. Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse it. Here you go, pal Tomašević. Don't abuse yourself, please. In advance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10733	Yeah, yeah. So first of all, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will first state what is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 236 is injured. And when a representative reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he is obliged to immediately quote the article, which is the first colleague to report, the first colleague did not make it. Also, according to Article 238, if the representative, during the hearing, means if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure and starts talking about another topic...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10734	Thank you very much. You still haven't been able to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10735	...that he'll get a warning. I didn't say anything else. You could answer that, but I won't. I didn't say anything else, and I'm just asking that my colleagues be reminded...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10736	....Reiner Intruder: And I'm giving you a warning and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10737	... because it violates the Rules of Procedure and abuses the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10738	The next Club of Representatives is the IDS on behalf of whom the respected representative Marin Lerotić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10739	Thank you, Vice President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The year at the end was completely marked by the pandemic. The crisis caused by the coronary virus, the health and economic crisis remains in full swing and the months ahead will be marked by the fight against the virus, but also by the negative economic consequences due to reduced economic activity. The crisis has once again pointed to a number of problems that this government is unable to solve. 3 key problems, health, education, economy. From year to year, problems are growing, and their resolution is constantly delayed. The illogicalities and absurdities in the functioning of the state are growing and just piling up. The health system has been brought to the brink of collapse, not just because of the coronary virus, but because of the inaction and non-implementation of reforms. For years in health care, there has been a chronic lack of doctors and nurses, and the fact that we are withdrawing doctors from retirement is also said in the time of the medical collapse. That's not a problem that came up six months ago. That's the problem we've known for years. At the same time, the state blocks the establishment of a Medical Faculty in Istria where future doctors should be educated, although the university has met all the necessary conditions and received a positive assessment by the Science and Higher Education Agency. Let a man wonder who's crazy here. What has the government done in the last four years to put the health system on sound ground, to be as prepared as possible for crisis situations? We're the country where the state pays for the drugs after we're threatened with not delivering them. I think that's more than enough talking about our system. All this tells us that the government doesn't have a serious vision of health care or a plan to improve the system but to manage the crisis by who knows which way... exclusively for the enthusiasm and sacrifice of health workers whom I would like to thank this time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is still at the bottom when we talk about investing in education, and the Bologna process in colleges has still not lived in the right way. The best example of wandering in educational reform is students of professional studies. Unlike students in professional studies in the EU who know clearly what their opportunities and options are after their studies are, in Croatia, we have several dozen thousand students of professional studies who do not know whether their diploma will be worth their diploma and what opportunities they have to continue studying, and these same students can continue their education in EU universities, but not in their country. And to make the situation more absurd, we allow students of professional studies from EU countries to continue their normal studies in Croatia, but not to our students. Such a chauvinistic approach towards its own students, towards its own citizens it is unprecedented in developed countries and then we wonder why young people leave. The situation in the economy too, alarming. The decline in GDP is huge and we are beginning to feel the negative consequences of our economy's dependence on tourism. tourism needs to be developed, it needs to be in the direction of quality development, strengthening added value, but we have a systemic problem of insufficient rapid development of other sectors that must be the cornerstone of economic development, such as modern industrial production, creative industry, IT sector, domestic food production. Instead of development, we have state-owned assets that are not put into operation, and to make the absurd thing even bigger, the state takes away the same country to local communities and stops the investment. Croatia has capable and hardworking people, only needs to give them a chance. Create for them conditions and let them work and earn, just as they have been made possible by the countries in which they go. The digitisation of the public administration must be one of the priorities of the government, not something that happens along the way and partially implements the pandemics of the coronaryvirus and the need to reduce physical contact. I will also touch the money from the EU because it is obvious that the government is based on the future development of Croatia almost exclusively on the 22 billion euros we have opportunities to withdraw, hoping that we will again avoid the necessary and essential reforms of the Croatian economy. We must certainly withdraw these money and spend it in the best quality and most effective way, but our success in withdrawing money from the EU or EU funds speaks sufficiently of Croatia falling to the last place in the EU in terms of paid money from the 2014-20 budget., only 39% of the total contracted funds were paid to end-users in Croatia. For example, in Finland, end-users received 77% of contracted funds, in Ireland 70%, etc. Obviously, the system of withdrawing money from EU funds in Croatia is not working properly, so it is unclear how the government thinks about building economic growth on that money if we are not able and able to attract it even 40%. It is an amazing fact that at a time of crisis when we must in all ways encourage economic activity, we are reducing the budget of the Ministry of Economy by nearly 430 million kuna and the Ministry of Defence for twice as much. That a man wonders if we will solve the economic and health crisis through weapons. Unfortunately, this government has no long-term vision of how to reverse trends, start a Croatian economy. The same applies to all other important segments of the state, health care, education, social policy. No serious reform has been carried out that would long-term mean a certain shift and progress, and if it continues, it is a matter of time before the system starts shooting at seams as it currently shoots at health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10740	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS and the independent representatives on behalf of whom Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10741	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I guess we'll all agree that in 2020, she set before us challenges that are unprecedented in modern history. The pandemic covid-19, a devastating earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area and the dramatic radicalisation of Croatian society that resulted in an armed attack on the institutions of the Croatian state makes a context that we must understand this year's government report. The most important challenge facing the Croatian government was to find a formula to ensure a balance between the protection and health of citizens and the economic and financial stability of the state. A team has been placed before the Croatian government a kind of crisis management role that it is successfully performing. The government has invested 8.1 billion kunas in preserving jobs and thus enabled the recovery of a large part of the private sector, while ensuring everyone in the state and public sector pays and pensions. Despite all the unfavourable circumstances, we managed to provide relatively satisfactory results during the tourist season. The government managed to provide financial resources from the European Solidarity Fund for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County and the recovery of the damages caused as a result of the devastating earthquake. To this end, a special law has also been adopted setting out a regulatory framework for effective renewal. Ensuring European funds, this government successfully faces a number of social, economic challenges with all efforts to preserve the existing level of business activities and thus prevents the Croatian Government from entering the economic recession and the armed attack on St. Mark. This attack is a kind of climate campaign for irresponsible individuals who radicalise Croatia's social and political scene with their performances. The fight against hate speech and all forms of intolerance is a common task for all of us and we must give full support to the Croatian Government. There are a number of challenges ahead of this government as well as before everyone where there are even more than enough space to be more efficient, more quality and efficient. As a result of all the above mentioned club of HNS and independent representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this year's report as it is realistic, life- and optimal what the Government could have done in this difficult year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10742	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers, and will speak on behalf of the club respected representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10743	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, respected and respected Croatian government presidents, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is also today in the debates of most clubs we could hear really apocalyptic predictions from the ranks of opposition to the collapse of the Croatian economy, about the collapse of Croatian health, about the collapse of the political system, all the worst that will happen with Croatia in these exceptional and challenging times. It's legitimate of course by the opposition that there's just this kind of political narrative, of course we're going to deny it, we're part of the ruling majority, just like it was legitimately from the opposition that she announced three months ago that we shouldn't have elections when we had them, that we're going to have 400,000 unemployed in the fall, that we're going to have thousands of dead, that we're going to have an unprepared health system, the sowing of panic in terms of the economy, the breakdown of the state budget, the collapse of the tourist season, so it's all legitimate. It's one of the communiqués that the opposition can afford, it's one of the narratives that they've decided to use, and we, as the ruling majority, understand, accept, but we also have the right to look at the situation. After all, Croatian citizens are always those who assess who was right about it. For the spoken word, there is never a responsibility except in the highest possible court, and these are always elections. 100 days behind us, I am pleased that this majority of the 76 representatives of the ruling majority, HDZ MPs, liberals and representatives of national minorities that we are the very dam, although the thin majority that we are the dam of all the surging types of extremism, pulsism, which, in these turbulent times, obviously comes upon fertile soil. But also in these turbulent times, it is my humble opinion that it is well managed by the state. It is not easy, it is not easy to make decisions and I know myself as the person responsible for the field of certain work as it is every day to deal with certain pressures, with all those problems that are not only on the health plan but also on economic, cultural, sociological, on all those problems that our citizens feel is not easy to make good and quality decisions. We are like the ruling majority, which is thin but solid and secure, clearly drawn the direction we want to go from the corner of the liberal message that was in Knin, Varivoda, the Grubors are messages that I will surely support, a direction that we will surely support, and will agree that even the opposition that it has not really been easy for the last 100 days under such pressure to function with a thin but firm ruling majority, and we have had such a fiery baptism immediately. So it's not the same majority, it's not the same ruling majority, and the government eventually changed completely, it's not the same ministers, it's not all the same as it's trying to impose in this debate today. Although the apocalyptic forecasts continue in my personal opinion to deal well with the crisis, I will try to testify further from my liberal angle. So, the measures we've taken, the measures are well affected, just as we personally calm down, we think it's good halfway between the Swedish model in which most of us liberals swear, I personally think he has certain shortcomings, but also halfway to what I don't think is good and good that we've escaped that part, which is that panic, one panic reaction, and I'd say radical measures that are visible today in the Czech Republic, Spain, Ireland or Germany. You know, I sometimes listen to certain exhibitions in this tall, high home, in this assembly I feel like we're an island, as if the crown exists only with us, when I listen to opposition criticism, you're not this, you don't need it like this, you need it like this, and the Socialists are also in power in the EU in certain countries. And so are the Democrats, so when you look at it more or less, they're the same moves, so so are our own moves, our ruling majority here are the same, and on the other hand we get from the same opposition where their members of their European parties are doing similar things in their countries. I personally think that the opposition should go with constructive proposals at the moment not only with criticism of what is not good, but perhaps too much about it. But let's go a little bit about what's ahead of us, let's let go of these problems now, I believe the Prime Minister will find together, with his fellow government associates, a way to keep this whole complex situation under control. We're going a little bit towards what's going to happen to us in the next few months or a year. Of course, we have a new tax discharge package ahead of us, and we support it as a club because we are aware that no matter how difficult it is in a budget that will still be very difficult to do, but we will vote it out, it will not be easy, so we believe that this tax discharge will contribute in the long run to making the economy much easier than anything it has been going through. The budget, as I said, will be significantly reduced from the revenue side, and even in the following year, although we are quite conservative by estimates, we are all of course optimistic that it will still be slightly better, but what is good, it is good that we will try to stimulate a certain economic activity of that same budget, complement exactly what I'm talking about, and that is European money for recovery, and of course I personally hope in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. At this point we know little about him, we heard yesterday and in a report by the Prime Minister on everything that has been said on, in the European Commission. We have great hope for this very national plan, we have heard that the resistors are preparing for him. In the first place, I personally believe that these funds can and must be used for what we have heard from many colleagues, whether from opposition or ruling lines, that we need to invest huge funds in the digitisation of the public sector, these are projects that are ready to be applied very quickly to raise the natural quality of public service, because ultimately, it will bring about the automaticism in the long term and what we are all talking about, and that is not going to happen, and that is a reduction in our state bureaucracy. Of course, here I must point out what I particularly stand for as part of our ruling coalition, which is a pleasure that yesterday by talking to Minister Malenic that he will soon be on our parliamentary benches and new, new amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government where, among other things, we will make further changes in order to have transparent funding from the mayor, mayor and mayor. I've seen a certain bill of law, at this point I'm satisfied, but I believe we'll fix it right here in this high house if it's necessary. Citizens will finally be able to see what their money is spent on, and we will, of course, get a mechanism that will be one big step in preventing and fighting corruption at local level. Once again, I stress this National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and I hope that the prime minister will further explain it to us. I personally believe that we should focus on it for the coming months precisely because we are preparing all those projects that will be very quickly available for funding next year. Somehow I have the impression, the feeling that a huge flow of money will come, and I'm not yet sure at this point whether we're ready to deal with it, whether as a state administration, we're going to prepare all these projects that are ready for funding already in the next year because as you know most of these projects have to start funding or starting in, but in the following year. I hope that we will also use this plan, the National Recovery Plan for what is very important, which is building new schools, investing in education, investing in science. Building new schools, of course, will then automatically enable the introduction of a one-way course, which will raise the standard of education in Croatia, which we really have in the next 5 years, we think should be our priority. We all know that investing in science and education will in the long run bring several times more so large multi, multiplying the effect on building a new modern Croatian economy of the 21st century. The first 100 days are behind us, they were extremely difficult, but I'm almost sure the next 1,000 days will be even harder, but we're used to it from the beginning, and in the past, it's also not the whole whole term that I would say smooth, but really every day some new problems have jumped out, but what's good, good to face them, and that within the ruling majority we have really good communication and that we respond and welcome such problems prepared, with this kind of approach of inclusiveness, tax discharges and what is most important to me as a liberal, a common fight against all forms of hatred and intolerance. Mr. Prime Minister, you will have our support and we will vote positively for this report. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10744	Before the day's word to the Prime Minister again in the final statement we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10745	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I would, man. He was injured in 238. Namely, he would warn and ask his colleague, Hrebak, if he lists coalition partners in the ruling majority, when the liberals say, to specify what liberal parties they are. Because it's true that liberal parties are in opposition like IDS, GLAS and Smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10746	Comrade Demetlik, this is a reminder, you know that yourself, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I can only warn you, and you can solve these problems at press conferences or in agreement with Mr. Hrebac, but this really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We will now go to the final presentation of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Please, President, for final address, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10747	Thank you, well-respected President HS, respected MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you for your presentations and for your comments on this morning's report on the government's work. I will try these 20 minutes to focus on several topics that the representatives of individual clubs have mentioned or have tried to make certain criticisms about government work in the past year and in these first 100 days, in the past term, and ultimately about what we are planning to do in the future. First, about our activities regarding the crown crisis. You will remember that in January as a government, on January 8th, we recognized the problem that developed in China's Wuhan, January 8. That's when we first started talking inside the government. On January 28th, when I resolved Mr. Kujundzic's former health minister and suggested HS Minister Beros, the opposition laughed, it rivaled the Covid-19 issue, which is facts, long before Mr. Zekanovic whose trade mark marked HDZ's cooperation, minority parties and liberal parties as the Serb-Croatian trade coalition, long before he realized that the coronary virus was not the same as the coronary beer. It's very important to keep in mind. As for our activities and these cry from Mr. Grbin, Bencic, Mr. Tomašević and others about the programme plan. I don't know if you're monitoring government meetings? Since 6 February, the Croatian government has been discussing and listening to the report by the Minister of Health and Home Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister on the weekly state of the crisis, the weekly state of the open session, the public, transparent, very clear what the headquarters is doing, what measures have been taken, what is the situation with the epidemic. Let's just say I don't know if I wasn't the Prime Minister or if I didn't see it right and I didn't hear it, you'd think the opposition was living somewhere in Latin America, so they didn't follow what the Croatian government was doing about Covid-19. Public delusions like volunteering sisters from one KBC to the other you are. Bencice, I think, you said otherwise. So, you want to make an impression to the Croatian public that should mean approximately the following that the Minister of Health does not know how many respirators there are, that the Minister of Health does not know whether one of these respirators is currently being treated for another disease, how many patients are on respirators due to Covid-19, how many respirators are free and how many respirators may not work for some technical reason. So you want to make your appearance impression that the Minister of Health doesn't know that. He knows up to one, he has a specific schedule, I said it in public, this is what I'm saying to you not to deceive the public that the Ministry of Health knows what a pulse respirator is if it is available and in coordination with hospital directors very ready, it can skillfully distribute a single apparatus where it needs to be distributed. Yesterday in Varazdin or so far a series of respirators that ended up in KB Dubrava. This public must know, so there is no improvisation, there is only an attempt to deceive those who are sorry they didn't win the 5 July election, that's the whole point, so the whole cry, the whole cry for you and Mr. Grbina comes down to it, and the facts are the opposite. Allegations against the government that we don't have a strategy against the crown, that we don't have a strategy maybe to find medical equipment. There was Mr. Bartulica who said that we probably have a tendency to communist China because, at that point, we couldn't find any health equipment anywhere else, so that's what the Home Movement representative, otherwise known as the adviser to the former SDP president of the Republic of Josipovic, is Mr. Bartulica, who is now speaking on behalf of Mr. Škore's party. This same Mr. Bartulica thinks that at the time we would miss buying masks and protective equipment, for example in Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, France, Germany or the United States, we wouldn't remember, we don't know the phone, we don't know how to send the order. But dear Mr. Bartulica, there was no, there wasn't at that time, no country sold protective equipment or had it or kept it for itself. The protection equipment in these quantities was produced only in China and thanks to our good relations with communist China, we succeeded in Croatian doctors, sisters, workers in homes for the elderly, police, civil protection to secure equipment in time, transparently at a quality price just because we are good with communist China, according to former Mr. Josipovic's adviser. These are facts, it can be my friend from elementary school Mr. Dretar confirms. As far as your corruption charges are concerned, which comes first and foremost with an attempt to re-write the same scenario, so the same scenario as 2016 to 2020. In the last term, the main ambition was to bring down the Minister of Science and Education because of a fusic note in one article in one magazine, it was the first impact needle of the opposition in Croatia in the past term, a mandate that we had completed until the end which was so much better by all the data I had said than in the time of the SDP's mandate so that we could write about it another 10 reports of an hour. Now you are moving again, announcing the initiative for mistrust of Minister Ćorić as much as I choose Minister Beros's interpretation, there was particularly a vocal gentleman adviser to President Josipovic about the CEMP of Krs-Padjene. So tell me explicitly what it's all about, tell me whose government is the day before the change in tariffs of 31.12.2013. some day's preferential price? Is it in my government or was it Mrs. from Nova Gradiška in the government of Zoran Milanovic? I mean Mrs Ahmetovic, say it, it doesn't say it in the interpretation. So, you're going to interpellate with the government today for what's the measurement of things from 2013, let's just say it to the end that the public hears it. As for Mrs. Oreshkovic, who has said so much in essence that she is not worthy of comment, is not worthy of comment because these are not arguments, it is labelling, it is throwing mud at the government, on me personally in a way that is below my level. As for Mrs. Dark Taritash, health care, earthquake, justice, corruption. As far as the earthquake is concerned, not only is the law good, not only have we had two readings, not only have we adopted it by consensus, not only have we made a quality agreement with the two counties and the city about the City Reconstruction Fund, that we have brought a quality programme of measures that I have today from the professional public who has been extremely divided all these months I have not heard the word of the objection. The architects don't complain, the builders don't complain, the conservatives don't complain, the engineers don't complain, no smokers complain, no one complains. The programme of measures is here, but Mrs. Mrak Taritas, this programme of measures has been taken not to restore Zagreb, I guess that's the point. The point is that we've been listening to criticism from you for months that we're not working on the law, we don't want to help the citizens, and all the accommodation temporarily paid for the citizens paid for by the government at the Student House for Flower Village, all the accommodation paid for by the government as well. Dentists, elevators, basic repairs, roofs paid for by the government, condensation boilers paid for by the government. 683m euros were found by the Government of the European Commission, $200m from the World Bank found by the Government, found no one from the opposition, and you didn't even as a party prove anything here that you donated, something small in the end donated by city councils in the City of Zagreb Assembly, which is the most often confused here earlier, Mr Maras, and now others. I guess that's all wrong. We don't have a strategy about economics and we don't have a vision. So there is no government strategy that has managed to secure jobs and wages in the private sector in the last 100 years, the government has no strategy, no vision of Mr Miletic, no vision, no vision, no 400,000 unemployed who were spoken of by previous Greeks. Those 400,000 aren't on HZZ right now, they're working. They work in the state section, in the public section, in the private part. Why are they working? So because someone hiding has made a decision to pay people in the private sector, to pay for 630,000 people hiding behind headquarters, that 107,000 Croatian entrepreneurs can overcome the crisis. We were doing it hiding somewhere under the table, so you didn't see us as well as in the government's open sessions, we weren't anywhere. We were also hiding when we secretly talked to Christine Lagarde and agreed to swap lines and allowed a single small announcement not even to the government but to the CNB to disappear the pressure on the exchange rate, no, gone, such a small statement. All our media dealing with the economy and the business world stopped, no more, the topic disappeared, only one little fonzall was supposed to,... One felt like Prime Minister Lee having the same conversation just so we know how much we're hiding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were also hiding when we found funds in domestic financial markets in due time to fill the budget gap due to lack of budget income at good interest, with the active role of the CNB, with a good deal with pension funds. We were also hiding when we went to international financial markets in due time and found a particularly favourable interest for the debts that were important to us at the moment and we were still hiding in the talks with Credit Rating agencies because we secretly stayed on the investment credit rating. So we have also been hiding in the European Course Mechanism for 2 5 days after winning the elections, all of us doing this by running away from responsibility. We don't know where our hospitals are, who tells our sisters that they're going from one hospital to another, who tells doctors to go from this hospital to another, that's what we do in secret somewhere in some club. We actually do it at the club. Okay? At the club. I say come on, let's go to the club, and we'll talk about it at the club. Okay? So much for the theme of hiding. So, the topic of radicalization, the subject of the obvious non-acceptance of one part of the political parties to which a sanitary cordon should be built because of the 25th. After the Homeland War, after the liberating operations of Storm and Flash, 22. After a peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunnova, they are unable to accept that the Croatian gains of our constitutional order are 8 minority deputies of which are 3 Serbian representatives and who have been in coalition with all Croatian governments in the last 14 years. in sequence. So, to those who today are intolerable to see that there is a vice-president of the SDSS government that was also not disputed in 2007, then it wasn't a problem, and then we were a little closer to wartime, a little closer. Today's the problem. And today, because the parties that went to this election campaign, I am now thinking of the Most and the Homeland Movement, the parties that had the agenda to blackmail HDZ 2020, as MOST 2015 did, so the only agenda was blackmailing capacity. That's what you got and you chose Milanovic as president, it was your only agenda, no matter what we went to the same school, no, you have to know that you're my friend from the elementary school, dear Mr. Dretar, it was the only agenda. The agenda was not to elect Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and you were successful, so you wanted to repeat it again, so you failed, so now you're a little angry, you're a little nervous. Like the SDP is nervous that it has to be 8 years old. The point in opposition is that you're nervous, too, is, is, is. And that's not good because your political rhetoric, by using your media outlets, is part of those who are with you, are sizzling and spreading hate, is spreading hatred. And it's not the same to listen to a hate speech on the Internet, read it in a weekly named Croatian or listen on some local TV and watch how hate is transformed in an attempt to kill a Croatian police officer through a terrorist act in the Banski Courts here, it's not the same. There's that difference, that's where we crossed the line, that's where we crossed the border, that's what it is and we won't talk about it, we won't talk about it. That wasn't definitely caused by communist China. I don't think there was that outside influence. It's important that we take care of it. As far as migration policy is concerned, we have the re-calling of the HV on Croatian borders. We have opened the topic several times as well as the themes of Marrakesh, the themes of the Istanbul Convention and so on. Stealing a referendum. As far as the Croatian border is concerned, it is protected by Croatian police officers, protected effectively, protected by the way we move towards the Schengen area, protected by Croatian laws. When, in any circumstances, there is a need to engage HV, it will be decided by those who are competent, not by some crying in the media or here at the pay phone. As for the thesis on the theft of the referendum, Bacic, the president of the club, explained to you what happened, and it is truly amazing that so long since the clearly established fact that there was not enough signature of the thesis on some theft of the plasirate further. That thesis about stealing, that's what I'm telling you, Mr. Miletic from MOST, is only intended to re-steal people against the government and the HDZ. For what? Because this here SDP who has failed to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Family and Women from Violence because they did not have what, money, had no time, had no courage,... Ratified to strengthen defence against the phenomenon of domestic violence and violence against women here in the whole term than to wait for HDZ to come and say that we will ratify it because we are against violence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're also certainly against violence. And as I don't know how many governments and countries in Europe and these democratic governments that don't have a problem with that text. And look wonders after all that time in force that convention has no zombies, no zombies, no, no, I don't see zombies, if you find zombies, you let me know, there's no zombies. We need to remind the public here's the minister of former Murganic laughing, the zombie's gone, they're gone. Isn't that right, Mrs. Boric? Now, that's good. Mostly we'll be doing our job like we've done it before. The last message I called you after the election, we haven't formed a government yet, for dialogue, you've all refused. You must have been ashamed to come to the government, and now you're yelling for dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10748	We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I thank the Prime Minister. Let's go in turn, the first is the representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10749	Dear Prime Minister, I see you following my Facebook, and then take a little detour until February 5th where I first spoke in my assembly about the danger of the crown epidemic while your HDZs were a little different attitude and even you personally. I won't make fun of you and make fun of you for example. The president of the state and talk about croissants, but you're not a hotshot, you weren't even a hotshot when you ran after the bush here in the assembly, so much about tolerance and.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10750	My colleague Zekanovic, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was not a matter of what you get, and you get a warning. Now it's time, just a little bit, now it's time for colleague Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10751	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 of the 5th indent has been injured, in the words that I have labeled and placed mud on you and on your government, you have humiliated me as a representative. The thing is, you don't actually have any arguments about what I said. Just because you have a euthanized DORH doesn't mean that we people who know how to read don't know what it says in Article 23, 24. The government law, and I'll just ask you what will happen when Ivica Todoric announces what he is...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10752	Comrade Oreshkovic, you are being warned, please take a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10753	...gets a lawsuit against the Republic...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10754	You're getting a warning this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure this was also some kind of replica. It is now up to counterpart Ahmetovic, as well as to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10755	President of the Assembly, the prime minister has injured Article 238 of paragraph 5 by demeaning and insulting MPs, Prime Minister you are a guest here, and MPs have the right to ask questions. You don't need to give us a lecture, otherwise I'm not from Nova Gradiška, but from Omis where LNG terminal is you still don't dare come and explain to the residents why they need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10756	My colleague Ahmetovic, I do not know what your practice with guests is, but here is a guest who has come being treated by individual hosts very uglyly. Well, I was taught at home to be nice to the guest, and it's logical that if the host offends him, he will respond with the same measure. And another thing, the Prime Minister is also hosting because he was elected also to the Croatian Parliament, but since he won he went to the government. So you have a lot, you have a lot of this hole in what you said, and besides that wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure either. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10758	Then to welcome our guest to the Croatian Parliament, this is Mr. Jandrokovic who has been a great host for years to be Mr. Plenkovic or someone else, so on your quality, thank you, 238, let me point out, however, without any need for increased tones to yet a kind of demeaning representative and representative of the Homeland Movement because none of us radicalises the Croatian public. What you noticed, what you're Trying to produce it was a reaction, not a radicalization. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Dretar.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder: Comrade Dretar.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10759	I find it very unusual, so I have heard very harsh words addressed to the Prime Minister, to certain ministers, words that were certainly offensive and which were not appropriate, we have not responded, neither I nor the other chairman. Now you who are those words, not you personally, but your colleagues, would now expect me to, for the same reasons I did not warn you to warn the government and to hurt the Rules of Procedure. It just doesn't work that way. You're a little delicate, a little bit you have to accept the edge of the debate and what you're doing alone will come back to you that's logical and clear. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10760	Thank you very much. The prime minister injured Article 238, and we welcome the Prime Minister, and I am pleased first of all that he always remembers MOST and that he has some kind of quiet suffering towards the Most, but the fact is that the prime minister is behind everything he's done and what he's really been saying is the undertaker of the referendum initiatives. And he's one of those who's brought democracy down to the lowest level since the '90s to this day. It's a fact, it's in the name of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10761	You know, you've earned a warning. You're getting a warning. My colleague Miletić, please sit down. Now it's time for my colleague Pavić, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10762	Thank you very much. He did not mind when he was on the HDZ list that he was in the coalition and with minority representatives, it did not bother him, what the Deputy Prime Minister was in Knin is the Day of Victory and Homeland Gratitude, but we gave him a drink to all the victims and here I congratulate both the Prime Minister and him on that courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10763	Comrade Pavić, this was also not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, and you deserve a warning. My colleague Vesna Bedeković, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article two hundred...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10765	Here's my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10766	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that Article 238(6) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, where a large number of MPs, by their conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the assembly, raising voice, inappropriate words, inappropriate expressions of insult not only to the Prime Minister who submits a report on the 100-day success of this government, use inappropriate expressions such as the term gravediggers...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10767	I thank my colleagues, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10768	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10769	As a result, they received injuries to the Rules of Procedure, or warnings. Now it's time for my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10770	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, indent 5, while the prime minister here specifically insulted me and my colleagues from the Green-Left bloc for the proposed measures to improve the management of the covid crisis, at the same time 6 medical organisations also issued a request for the identical measures they needed to continue to operate and survive this system. Will you tell them that they don't know what they're talking about, will you tell them that you have everything under control and that they're wrong, and you're right? You want some?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10771	My colleague Bencic is out of time, you get a warning because you did what everyone else did, this was a replica. And I don't think the Prime Minister said anything more harsh than it was directed to him. So when you say that he insulted someone and you insulted him and not only him but also numerous representatives of the government, numerous colleagues and colleagues and they did not react, you are now reacting, it's a little hypocritical. I don't take anyone for protection, but it's funny for you who speak very harshly, you speak very harshly, you're often on the verge of an insult, you don't get a warning, and then you ask others to warn you when they return in the same way, it's not correct. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10772	I'm glad there's this fire in our Prime Minister and he's a bit of an argument in HS, so go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10773	Okay. And my colleague Bulj. ‘Zucker Komt Zuletzt’. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10774	Well, here's my colleague, Bedekovic, who broke the article. 238, because I don't know what you're whining about, you're crying when the prime minister is told something. So you know everything the Prime Minister said to me, for example, I want to name it, I want to list it for you? It doesn't matter that I'm a Croatian defender, if I were in HDZ, I shouldn't say that if he shares the defenders who are in HDZ, regardless of what I founded that party, it doesn't matter. But for him I was a chop, a log I was all... (Speakers speaking at the same time.)...what you weren't then in the trench... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10775	Take a seat, fellow Bull. No one was whining about their opinions. You've been looking for damages to the Rules of Procedure, they've been looking for colleagues from the ruling majority, and this is what we've come to the end of the debate on this point is over and I'm closing it up, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. We move to the second item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 43 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 43. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The proposer's representative will give an additional explanation, which is counterpart Zarko Katic, the secretary of state in the MUP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10778	Your Honor, Secretary of State, go ahead. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues who want to stay in the hall to stay, whoever wants to leave, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. I warmly welcome all of you MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10780	Please calm down. Let's take our seats so the Secretary of State can say on behalf of the motionary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10781	Thank you very much again. I warmly welcome you all. Allow me to explain on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons. The Explosive Substances and Production Act, adopted in 2017, provides for an area of production, transport, storage, transport, research, research, testing, conformity assessment and use of explosive substances, as well as production, transport, transport, labelling, labelling and decommissioning and retailing of pyrotechnics and weapons. The final proposal for a law which lies ahead of you is proposed to be amended in order to comply with the two new arms Directives and Implementing Directive 2019/68 of 16 January 2019 on the confirmation of technical specifications for the marking of firearms and its essential parts in accordance with the Council Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons which are prescribed the font size of letters and type of letters which may be marked and the way in which non-metallic materials of essential weapons are to be marked by the installation of a metal plate and the Commission Implementing Directive of 16 January 2019 laying down the technical specifications of the alarming and signalling weapons prescribed by Member States to ensure that the weapons or devices designed for the alarming, signalling or saving of life are not subject to screenings in order to determine their compliance with the technical specifications set out in the attached to the directive in question, i.e.e. that such weapons could not be converted into firearms. In order to comply with this Directive, it is necessary to designate a competent authority to control the compliance of such weapons with technical specifications and to provide for the obligation to exchange information on the results of the verification with other EU Member States. It is therefore necessary to appoint a national contact point for the exchange of such information, and this final proposal of the law stipulates that the MUP will carry out a conformity check and will be a national contact point for the exchange of results, a verification with other Member States. The verification procedure and the technical specifications will be detailed in the rules to be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of this law. Furthermore, in order to comply more precisely with the provisions of the Directive, i.e. these two Directives that are transposed into the law have been amended earlier and the meanings of certain concepts have been prescribed, and the meanings of the new concepts used in this law, such as the 'arms','machines', 'illegal production', 'illegal trade','museum','minister', 'distribute contract' and some other important concepts in this area, or this law. In the same way, in the meantime, there has been a lot of pressure from the public to ban the sale, supply, possession and use of firecrackers and directors of category F2. According to the provisions of the Directive on pyrotechnics, these funds are therefore classified in 2 categories, category F2 and F3, and by the provisions of the current law adopted in 2017. It is already prohibited to sell, purchase and use firecrackers and directors of category F3, so it is now proposed to further prohibit use for category F2. In the last 2 years. As a result, the ban on the use of category F3 is a significantly smaller number of injured citizens due to the use of pyrotechnic means. With the use of firecrackers, especially monks consisting of a series of related firecrackers, according to data available to the MUP suffer the most often of the persons under 18 years of age. which, under the provisions of the current law, is prohibited from selling and using pyrotechnic means of category F2 and F3, means that they are clearly sold and given for use by older ones, often by parents or close neighbors, etc. In addition to firecrackers and monks, this category includes other types of pyrotechnic means for entertainment that are less dangerous and less dangerous than injury, such as various types of rockets or fireworks. However, although the sale of pyrotechnic assets is allowed only for minors in the period from 15 December to 1 January and for use only from 27 December to 1 January, there are numerous reports of the abuse of firecrackers and monks from minors who, despite an explicit ban, use both outside the prescribed time period and at places and at times when the law prohibits them. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to protect the lives and health of people, with particular emphasis on the protection of the health and life of children, but also on the property and animals, on the proposal of the Ombudsman for children, and with the agreement of other state bodies and support of the general public, in addition to the already mentioned bans of firecrackers and directors of category F3 propose to the citizens, by the final proposal of the law, a ban on firecrackers and directors of category F2, therefore, all. Since pyrotechnics are ordered in the rule of law in the first part of the year, and the quantities ordered at this time are already already paid and imported, and it is likely that the law in question will enter into force during the period when citizens are otherwise allowed to obtain pyrotechnic means, and respecting the requirements of the associations of entrepreneurs for prolonging the period of application of the rules on the prohibition of pyrotechnic means, they state also the difficult financial situation which is partly caused and the epidemic of the coronary virus, in this proposal, in the final proposal of the law, they will be streamlining that the provisions relating to the prohibition of firecrackers and monks of category F2 will enter into force on 2 January 2021, therefore not apply to this, let's call it, pyrotechnic season. In fact, the applicable law prohibits the sale of all pyrotechnic assets of category F2 and F3 to citizens in the period from 2 January to 1512. For the period from 2 January to 26 January 12. No use of pyrotechnics, no purchase. Therefore, the law was otherwise on e-consultation with the interested public for 30 days between 8 January and 7 February 2020. A total of 791 comments were received during that period on this draft bill, of which more than 750 comments related to the ban on firecrackers and F2 directors with the largest number of comments, and the largest number of comments supported their ban. A smaller number of comments, which were mainly sent by pyrotechnic agents, were not supported by the proposed prohibitions, and therefore a meeting was held with importers and sellers through the professional association of pyrotechnicians, pyrotechnic association for the sale of pyrotechnic assets and explained to them the reasons for the prohibition and the possibility to be allowed to sell this year or to enter into force in that part on 2 January 2021. And let me finally say a few words about the loss of pyrotechnics, it always needs to be stressed over and over again. In this season from 15.12.2017 to 8 January 18. 16 people were injured, of which 5 children under the age of 14. A year later, 23 people were injured, of which 6 children were under 14 years of age and 8 minors aged 14 to 18, and in the past, over the past period last and early this year, 14 of whom 2 minors were injured, and 6 children and 1 minor were more easily. Therefore, following the development of community awareness and animal welfare and the reduction of the number of dead and injured animals and their fear of shooting during that period and the reaction to explosive funds and firecrackers, the Animal Friends Association handed over a petition to the MUP with 60,000 signatures for the ban on pyrotechnic assets of category F2 and F3 even though F3 had already been banned. Following all the proposed amendments and additions of the law to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, those implementing directives will take over and create preconditions to improve the existing provisions of the law and to see and address the observed errors and shortcomings in the current provisions. It is not necessary to implement the law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget, and therefore we are only proposing to adopt the law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10782	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10783	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, if true, i.e. if the exact data that is here and the association is the pyrotechnic professional that you mentioned, I mean through the Croatian Employers' Association that this industry weighs some 150 million kunas a year, I'm interested in these very meetings one of their main assets which I think is definitely the MUP should draw attention to, if we have an industry that weighs 150 million kuna annually is a big concern of exactly the black market. So I'm curious on the part of the ministry whether there's already been some kind of analysis or preparation to prevent maybe this outbreak of the precisely black market related to pyrotechnics after all these bans that take effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10784	Dear Secretary of State Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10785	Thank you very much. This means to be prohibited in the total volume of sales and the resources achieved are a minor part. Since it makes no sense to buy such funds that you cannot use, and the use is quite strange because it is very loud, so we believe that their use after a complete ban will be reduced to the least possible extent and, of course, will be severely sanctioned, and with the State Inspectorate and other bodies are otherwise treated in quality and works and trying to prevent the illegal use and suffering of people, children and animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10786	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10787	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so when we discuss weapons, we make regulations about weapons, basically we make decisions for those who stick to order, who have everything legally declared or held or carried. What's on the black market, we don't know that. And those who stick to the black market literally do what they want. However, I volunteered for the replica because of a letter from the Professional pyrotechnics Association, which claims that many of our farmers who deal with pyrotechnics have already ordered pyrotechnic preparations on the world market. And now they claim that they will have great losses because they have ordered, perhaps partly paid and are looking for a reasonable transitional period. So I wonder if there was any conversation with them to put it in some frame that I could It's an economic thing to put up with. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10788	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10789	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, I have stated in my previous statement that meetings have been held with them, they have also been answered by written means, and most importantly, we have given that additional deadline. So what's been ordered and paid in this year and what's supposed to be spent in this season I say under quotes when using these products, that's what they're allowed to do. Therefore, the law will enter into force in these provisions beyond that deadline, i.e. at the latest on 2 January, it will be free to spend the funds imported in this year. Otherwise, these funds are allowed to be sold in specialized pyrotechnics stores that have a total of 581 with the permission of the MUP, so you can see pretty much everywhere the inscriptions and in arms and ammunition stores that have 133. So a total of 714 stores can sell pyrotechnics, of course allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10790	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10791	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Secretary of State you said that the time of distribution of pyrotechnics is set, but we are witnessing that it is not exactly so and that it can be found in the store before these dates enter into force. I am interested in what the legislator can do to prevent what measures you can take to protect the weakest ones, which are our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10792	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10793	Dear Mr. Representative, of course the Ministry of Interior, and the Croatian police, in cooperation with the State Inspectorate and, if necessary, other inspections and services, visit shops that are authorised to sell, but also of course other shops that would potentially have been illegally sold and if they notice that those funds are sold before the deadline, so before 15 December and later on 1 January, they shall make indictment proposals and other sanctions envisaged. So, every year, fewer and fewer such funds are being sold, less and less injured, but we still have injured children who still don't understand enough the danger of using pyrotechnic means and our intention is to prevent these changes and additions. And other means that don't make so much noise or not so dangerous will still be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10794	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, we're moving on to the debate, so the first one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10795	Good afternoon and thank you very much to the esteemed vice president of the assembly and the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, and welcome to you. So let's go through this second item of the agenda. In the name of the Homeland Movement, there may be one slightly wider picture of all this. We are in difficult times, we witness terrible terrorist attacks in France and Austria, and we are here recently in our immediate vicinity in St. John's Square. Mark saw and felt what happens when a weapon comes into the hands of mentally unstable persons, so it is clear to all of us that this law or proposal to amend and supplement this law creates what we really need, a good law that will take care of our safety because it seems more important to me than ever. Just to go back for a few moments to an article recently published in a Croatian daily newspaper last year in which the journalist managed to reach an automatic rifle called Kalashnikov in just 48 hours on the black market for just a few hundred euros. So it is clear to all of us that such weapons are still on the streets, or in houses, an extremely large security threat. Let me remind you once again of Damir Novak, I don't know if anyone remembers Damir Novak, an opera singer of HNK, who was hit by a bullet from a infantry, pedestrian, I apologize, weapons as he walked in front of his house and unfortunately left us just 7 days later, the perpetrator was never found. Large quantities of weapons and ammunition and today in Croatia are owned by many people, some of them tend to use these weapons on the black market by earning profits, using them for criminal acts. So once again on behalf of the Homeland Movement and I believe all reasonable persons of this country I appeal to all those persons that the weapons and ammunition they illegally possess in the shortest time return to the nearest police station because there are existing laws allowing them to do so anonymously and without any administrative obstacles or penalties. We must remove illegal weapons from our society, and therefore I call on the competent institutions to strengthen the media visibility of campaigns such as those "due to weapons" or later called "less weapons of less tragedy" and not to spare financial resources because the cost of human life cannot be expressed in money. Likewise, the Homeland Movement advocates even stronger control of persons who legally possess weapons, we advocate more frequent, stricter and more detailed medical examinations, and of course constant supervision of the storage and storage of firearms and devices intended for any purpose. As far as explosive substances are concerned, they are used in many segments of the economy, and even a common layman like me knows that they are needed in mining, in the construction industry and in road construction. These amendments and additions to the law, as we have noticed, further ensures their production, availability, control systems, procurement and storage of such substances. As for weapons and the Homeland Movement, it advocates an extremely strict control of the market for explosive substances, legal market surveillance and the fight against illegals. We ourselves know how worried we are about newspaper articles about occasional planting of explosive devices under cars or in bars or houses, and we understand that such acts create extraordinary discomfort and a sense of uncertainty among Croatian citizens. Let me look back on this last debate here, and yet also through the prism of this bill. As a party recently named by a party that radicalises the state of society and encourages people to acts of terrorism, its representatives and MPs called radicals, almost terrorists to be separated by so-called terrorists. The sanitary cordon, and we can assume and ban, yet we are free to conclude that the state is difficult. The ruling coalition is not easy either, but it gets out of control and accuses someone else of radicalising reality is in fact the true and right radicalisation of Croatian citizens. No one from the Homeland Movement calls for a violent way of solving social problems, just the opposite. We know the horrors of the war that we've come out of and out of no one, and we never want it to happen again. Croatian society is crying out for radical changes, but in a reasonable democratic way without security threats and especially without party-produced investigations of opposition MPs, creating imaginary sanitary cordons for which we can only surmise with horror what we could mean and in what time we could return. When we are already in the last part of this legislative proposal or the amendment, we mention that we are in a November and despite the difficult economic situation and the crown crisis will soon come a time to celebrate. But we would like to ask that the celebration go without shooting, without bursting into the air, and preferably without firecrackers, or with their reasonable use. These amendments provide for bans on the sale of firecrackers and directors to citizens for basic needs in certain categories, while other authorised pyrotechnic means are allowed to sell to citizens older than 18 years. in the period from 15 December to 1 January. Unfortunately, every year we witness injuries that most often our young citizens experience by handling, mishandling pyrotechnic means, most often of course these pyrotechnic assets come from the black market. The numbers are really scary when we imagine they're kids younger sometimes than 14 years old, 15 or 16. It's about injuries to the hands, toes, organs of vision and hearing that seriously reduce the ability of these young people to participate in society and life. So, the Homeland Movement advocates even stricter market control, and in that black, which I am glad is that HDZ representatives have also asked the question, it is necessary to really invest funds and allow the police a legal framework to carry out in a good way the abolition of the black market and, of course, the adequate punishment of all those who intend to earn a profit on it. The use of firecrackers leads to severe injuries, scares people, pollutes the air, creates unwanted noise and pollutes the environment. We must not forget, although they are not here with us in the Croatian Parliament, they are our pets and animals that rarely end up injured, they die trying to get away from the explosions or they get hit by heart failure. We also mentioned a part of the interested public here, and these are associations, i.e. entrepreneurs dealing with the trade in pyrotechnic means. We mentioned, here, here, and perhaps an extension of the legal deadline for the implementation of this law, to allow them, of course, to empty their warehouses and to make some kind of profit in these difficult times affected by Covid, at least. Mostly the Homeland Movement will support these amendments and amendments to the law, but through the amendments we will ask that the deadline for the sale of authorised pyrotechnic assets of category F2 and F3 and of course their use, because we believe that this should be limited exclusively to 2, maximum 3 days, there at the end of one and the beginning of the 2nd year. So, to tell you the truth, even though they may be part of our tradition, I came from the Croatian Zagorje, where often our dear Zagorci is brought together into the Cuban societies and then they like to enjoy a smoke of gunpowder, but I would still like to appeal, on behalf of the Homeland Movement and on behalf of all of us here and remind us, shootings and explosions are not fun. Permanent disability is a terrible consequence. May this Christmas, this New Year's Eve and all others who come to us in the streets and squares of Croatia have peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10796	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10797	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Green-Left Block Club, we certainly support control of arms trafficking, explosive substances, weapons holding, and in this case, in these amendments and additions to the Law on Explosive Substances and Weapons Traffic, we have some proposal in this direction. So in art. 3 which is changed by art. 3 of the law is added to point 13.b which defines illegal trading and now it says that illegal trading is the purchase, sale, delivery, transport or transfer of arms, while we suggest that the word "borrower" be added. We are confident that it can also reduce the need for people to keep at home, and especially those who are either invited, I don't know, hunting or somewhere else and who don't have that need, I don't see any reason why we should just get a gun license. I am convinced that for many occasions would be this lease or simple loan, a solution. The same thing is proposed to be added to point 31 of the law in which the activities or operations of the brokers in the arms trade are defined which can negotiate or negotiate purchase or sale transactions, but we also propose to rent. Now it's an article. 4 relating to Art. Five laws. There's actually talk about privatizing training to work with explosives and working with the use of weapons. We don't see that it's a good thing that all of a sudden, from the state and public sectors, we let privates become the ones who train others to work with explosives, to work with weapons. We understand that there are these private security companies and everything, however, I don't see why it wouldn't remain in the hands of the public sector if only he were to issue a certificate and that he alone was to provide training for the operation of explosives, as well as for the use of weapons. Our next proposal is what concerns us in terms of what in art. 7 that actually changes actually art. 12 The time limit on which a legal person or craft is authorised to carry out conformity assessment operations of explosive substances should be excluded. So it's proposed to get that deadline out of the law. We don't see why, we're proposing to return to the maximum of 4 years because this approval for working with explosives and weapons should certainly have some kind of a certain deadline, 4 years of application of the deadline and for such a serious and responsible and dangerous job, I don't see why the state wouldn't ask these people every 4 years to re-examination and certification. Suspicible sales or suspicious transactions in art. 14. which regulates the addition of art. 31. A duty shall be imposed to notify the legal person and the craftsmen of any ammunition sale which they consider suspicious. That seems normal, but why are you giving a 15-day deadline? Or, from even 15 days ago, that's what I'm saying, they do? If a man who's an expert and sells weapons and equipment and concludes that something is suspicious and now he's with his boss, we really don't understand it, which is why it's been 15 days, when you've been expecting it, especially for these situations that can happen, to be right now. I know that on the black market is... But if the law already recognizes that, if it could be suspicious transactions, uh, we don't see why it wouldn't be within 24 hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Costs of disabling firearms on the burden of the state budget, according to us. If people have decided, especially with a tragedy like this that happened at Mark's square, if a man finally decides he won't have an arsenal of weapons in the bunker and everything that's unreported and needs to give it to incapacitation, now we charge him for incapacitation. We think that, however, and that the state should stimulate it and that there is a need to participate in and pay for this incapacitation. It's interesting that. The 49th century 1 says that weapons or ammunition seized in legal proceedings can be sold or donated to legal persons, craftsmen or citizens. We also hold that such a weapon must be destroyed by those who, because it is an additional penalty for those who illegally used weapons, not that it is given the opportunity to give it to them or to or even sell it to persons, crafts or citizens. Now this issue of expertise and health skills remains. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25th Amendment of Art. 62., you are introducing a new paragraph 1 where you have left out the need for persons carrying out sales at approved shops, that they must be trained professionally and which is very important, medically capable. We don't understand why this condition has been thrown out of the law and we're asking for it to come back anyway, especially health care, mental health is very important, but in every other sense we don't see why we wouldn't have that confirmation that he's qualified professionally and that he's medically capable. As for pyrotechnics, we also support the reduction, we also support the sale, instead of this of 15.12. and for these forms of these weaker forms of these firecrackers and... or that they are neither more than even weaker means, however, this year's sale will obviously remain so since 15.12., we suggest that it be from 27., and that the shooting itself for those weaker ones, especially for the sake of the children themselves and for the injury and for the sake of pets, for everything, that the shooting is really reduced, we understand customs and for all that, so we also allow the shooting to be real from 31.12 to 1.1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, that would be suggestions... Green-left block. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10798	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Mako Kuzmanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10799	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. In fact, this proposal has its good things and its bad things. I personally own a foster dog, and I have, I have, I have a neighbor, a kid who unfortunately suffered from firecrackers, and this petrified petrified story is something I'm extremely commending because, as far as I know, every year in the world, about 10,000 pets get hurt just because of the firecrackers and all the trauma they experience because of it. But I'm also a member of several shooting associations, so I have to tell you that with this law here, there are some things that don't go hand in hand on our owners or our merchants or people who are legally weapons owners. In fact, we all know about these unpleasant events that happened here, unfortunately both in Vienna a few days ago and in Mark's square here 15 days ago, 20 days ago, and one thing I think we all need to know, which is that 98% of the incidents with firearms happen with illegal firearms. So only 2% of the incidents, including police and security, if they were to get out of it, and I don't know, handing over their shifts, would even fall to 0.5% of the incidents, so all the incidents that are happening right now because of the abuse of the black market, illegal firearms still owned by citizens, which gives us, we at the SDP Club think we need to do everything we can to make as many weapons from the illegal black market retreat to, through the MIP projects in the country and that citizens simply get rid of it. Because it's not obvious enough just to send an appeal to the citizens to return their weapons, we may have to go one step further and find some funds in the budget to buy out that illegal weapon, offer the citizens a kuna for a bullet, 1,500 kuna for a piece of firearms, so maybe those figures will be better. I'm sure we can find the means for that because one human life is worth a lot more than 10 million kunas or 20 million kunas as much as it could ultimately cost us. What we need to note here is that, in addition to these changes that are positive in this law, some changes that I think are really illogical, and now I will first read to you the EU Council Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons which is the basis of what I am about to tell you, which you, I must say, have misrepresented and misapplyed in this. And she's in Art. 6. says: “For the protection of the key infrastructure of commercial ships, high-value convoys and sensitive spaces, as well as for national defence purposes, and for educational, cultural and cultural and historical purposes, without prejudice to Article 1(1), the competent authorities may, in an exceptional and duly justified manner, issue firearms and essential parts and ammunition classified in category A where this is not contrary to public security and public order.” ‘Member States may authorise arms dealers and intermediaries to supply, products, disenfranchise, repair, supply, transfer and possess firearms, essential parts and ammunition classified in category A and subject to strict safety conditions.’ The problems of category A weapons are that there is no way in which an authorised trader can buy weapons of the same category, give it to a difference to be a parading acoustic weapon, and sell by law a permitted group of users i.e. a film weapon, and at the same time, such a weapon is imported and used to make films even though it's against the law. Then, production and testing of accessories to weapons, tanks, articles, monks, flashlights, lasers, handhelds, legs, target-carrier carriers, who will introduce, sell those weapons to a manufacturer or construction company? So, companies that aren't weapons manufacturers, and so they can question their products. For example. Can anyone in Croatia today produce vests? He can't. Is it possible to question someone today, or is it possible to question them because his company is forbidden to use armored ammunition prohibited by the Weapons Law? Also, can any company in Croatia today produce for banks and for, I don't know, embassies and who already uses the protective, protective of these cabins? He can't because it's forbidden to use weapons like that. If HS Product can have a weapon tomorrow, with which it can examine ammunition, that their weapons will be in operation so that we can sell it, not to say, I don't know, to the companies that produce helmets and similar protective equipment. So they're the most endangered with this, and so are our merchants. So how to produce a compensator, which is not a weapon and how to question it for military purposes or exports, in what way? How can you explain this to us, Secretary of State? ‘The legislator shall permit the weapons of category A to companies that are registered’, and that shall be the case. 6th century 5th, 24th century 1st, 35th century in order to do so all by art. 25th Amendments to Art. 62, forbidden. So, first we let something happen, then we ban it. And then if we pass this law, we will bring a large number of our private weapons owners into conflict with the law, and how? Here's the thing, in art. 25. says: “Selling small and possession of firearms in category A of specific regulations, its essential parts and its related containers are not allowed.” Today, tanks are used for the same weapon for some weapons belonging to category A and are not allowed in some category B and C for citizens. In what way will you ban the tanks, you are automatically in Croatia, I don't know, 100 000 people will be in violation, in what way can you correct it? So, the law can't be at the expense of our entrepreneurs and it can't be at the expense of our citizens and I'm not saying here that in law you've prescribed every weapon, which is, which is, which is, which is, which is an obligation if someone imports weapons from the United States or somewhere and wants to sell it in EU Member States, the C.I.P. is mandatory. But if our company does import the same weapon and sells it for example. in Albania which is not subject to the C.I.P., which makes it an additional cost and is therefore not competitive in this international trade? And the same entrepreneur from Slovenia, the same businessman from Austria, the same entrepreneur from Germany doesn't have to do it. So we're misrepresenting the directives and copying them to the detriment of our merchants. Also, I don't know why you're nodding your head, but I think this is exactly what it says in what you're here, what you've given us here today for adoption. I said about the film weapon, so there's no way that it can be rewritten in Croatia, and the biggest offenders would be, you know, who, the Adriatic film, the MUP and the MOH are in possession of such a weapon that now belongs to category A, and it's a weapon that's automatic, but it doesn't fire missiles but only blanks or fires, it doesn't fire any dangerous substances, so it's used exclusively for film and some kind of, I don't know, stage performances, theatre and so on. More I wanted to emphasize, and that is that, that I have pointed out to you, it is a firearm that is produced in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of selling customers outside the Republic of Croatia to countries that do not recognise questioning and marking... I don't see the need for that in accordance with C.I.P. regulations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, the SDP Club absolutely supports and our proposal is for the MUP to start with a quality buy-in program of illegal ammunition and illegal weapons that are located in, in, owned by our citizens or in illegal property and thus restore security to our streets. We also support this ban on firecrackers and that doesn't serve unfortunately anything, I don't know what traditional ones are, I don't know, some nonsense we're talking about, so it just hurts kids and, and I don't know, pets get hurt. And as far as trade itself and this legal part is concerned, these people go through strict controls and here are the statistics that speak for it, so only 2% of the total incidents including police and security guards and the military are incidents with legal weapons. So 98% of that is illegal. So we're talking here with this law from those 2% of people who usually follow the rules and who are usually in front of all these barriers, which we're putting on them today, and here we see that the other members of the EU and those of the same directives that we're calling on are just saying differently, so please respect these suggestions, so when the law comes to another reading, I hope this stuff around the container, about the C.I.P., and about getting this paradic weaponry that it's going to be a little changed, is that it really doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10800	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Explosive Substances, Production and Transport of Weapons was adopted in August 2017, and this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements has in some way 3 groups of reasons and relate only to certain parameters or articles of this Act which, in fact, according to the rules of conduct in HS, can only be debated. The first group of reasons is to bring this law into line with, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, to adopt the implementation of the EU Commission Directive laying down technical specifications for the labelling of firearms from 2019, the Council on the Control and Purchase of Weapons, and the EU Commission Implementing Directive on the establishment of technical specifications for firearms for alarming and signalling. The second group of reasons are indicators of injured persons due to the use of pyrotechnics during the holidays. The data is, as has already been said, '17. in the year 18. There were 16 injured persons in '18. In '19. 23. Statistically, about a million citizens using these pyrotechnic means were injured about 20 people a year, according to statistics. The third group of reasons is the indeterminateness of the existing law is as stated under the provisions of Article. The 62nd law prohibits citizens from obtaining and using firecrackers and directors of category F3 throughout the year, and the lack of provision did not prohibit the possession of such pyrotechnic means. As a result, there was no legal basis for the takeover of firecrackers and directors and category F3 which were found in breach of public order and peace. Here, once we can do a depression and ask who's responsible for this, because of the inconsistencies or failure to punish himself? One will say it's the proposing's fault, the other that it's the government's fault, and since the law is passed by HS, then we should say that the responsibility is in Croatian, too, on HS. And I would therefore warn of what we will talk about in two days, that, not an adequate organisation of HS work, because we do not have a focus on committees but on plenary sessions, and only on working bodies can such inconsistencies with thorough discussions be seen, proposed amendments and, and complemented. So I think this should also be read as one warning about ourselves or HS and its organization. What is good is that, in addition to the proposal for this law, a statement on its compliance with the legal property of Croatia and the Union has been submitted, so that the statement shows that these basic articles here are, in the proposal, read them under numbers 1, 2, 3 and 10, that it is either fully or partially taken over from these directives, which are why this amendment of this law is being launched. The proposed legal solutions aim to reduce the number of injured persons on the one hand, and the most injured children as we have heard, but also the number of dead and injured animals. In addition to this bill of law over cca. 500 pages of the proposal, a review of the objections from the public debate, I think it's said that there are around 700 of these remarks. The majority of the objections are related to the article. 25. and its implications in Art. 37th and 38th. Art. The 25th is to remind the ban "the sale of firecrackers and directors of category F2 and F3 to citizens for basic, personal needs, while the remaining authorised pyrotechnic means of category F1 and F3 are allowed to sell to citizens older than 18g. in the period from 15 December to 1 January,’ etc. The largest number of objections in the public debate stems from associations and members of the Animal Protection Association who welcome the adoption of this law. Most of the objections from the public debate were accepted. However, there are two groups of conflicting views that are opposed to this law. Some consider it necessary to ban the sale and use of firecrackers throughout the year, fear for the welfare of their animals, but also for the welfare of other pets and wild animals. Others believe that a number of people will lose their jobs because of this law, that the ban on the use of firecrackers is exaggerated because the proposed measures lead to the ban on celebrating New Year's celebration in the final year, and that it is not a practice in other EU countries, so Italy, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, states that have not banned pyrotechnics, and they are allowed to shoot for 3 days, so they have 5 times stronger firecrackers than that allowed by this law. In order to find these obstacles in some way under one objective denominator, common denominator or denominator, which can be resolved without further conflict, it would be good for the applicant to review in another reading that the use of disputed pyrotechnics in other EU Member States is legally regulated. I think that would only boost these possible tensions, enhance interpretations, and reduce potential tensions. On the other hand, we must also be aware that technologies are obsessing and we want to admit it or not, and these pyrotechnic means are part of the practice, traditions regardless of all these negative consequences, so we must be prepared to make this technology become obsolete and to reduce and reduce on one hand to the least possible negative consequences, but the objective question is what is going to replace these technologies, or these means, so that we can somehow re-recover all the cultures of glory, rich and have, have them in a good, well-being welcome every beginning of the New Year. Whether it's stimulating the production of these funds without, without noise or any other means, I don't know, but it's, it seems to me one problem which is like a council that only discusses laws, especially in this sense in restrictive laws like this. We have little opportunity, space, will and desire to discuss which solutions are desirable, which are the desired standards so that in a civilized and cultural way we can behave during these holidays and what this, this, this, this, this, this, this, the pyrotechnic means can replace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10802	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. But before that, I can't help but notice that here are two afternoons already preside over, and I remember that it's a terrible lot of bickering and passion being invested to show that it's limiting the right of MPs to speak if they're not in this building, etc., not one MP and not one representative at this hour are in any other hall, and there's about half of us in this room, so I'm sorry about that, and I'd like to see us there more and we're really spending what we've been very much discussing, right? Comrade Matul, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10803	I'm sure the Rules of Procedure have been hurt because this is the time that I'm here, and I'm always there, and I think it's art. 238th in this way injured because I'm constantly there, this is the only time that I'm here and I'm just here to listen to the debate until the end because I took part in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10804	That's, that's very commendable, so it obviously doesn't apply to you because the fact is that there's absolutely no one in any other hall at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10805	I just want to say it's in this class and we're using our options.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10806	It's all right, it's all right. This one we're going to have an individual debate, so the first one will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10807	Thank you, Vice President HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10808	Here you go, buddy. You're throwing something out of the bench? ... You can't. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10809	Dissatisfaction, it's over. As this is, we've opened up the debate, we've mostly stuck to it a little bit, although there are amendments and additions to the Law on Explosive Substances, Production and Transport of Weapons, and we've linked this to a law that we've, I think, for a year, had in our last session here on changes and additions, and that's the Arms Act where there's some little contradictions. But I also know that when we had a discussion about the Arms Act, there were just additional restrictions introduced, and what is here and colleagues before me mentioned and related to the health condition of the one who owns the weapon and related to what happens to the weapon when he surrenders, so that there should only be a little comparison and see if there is a second reading of some things called the law, and maybe they're conflicting with the Law itself. The State Secretary himself, and the Secretary of State, introduced us to the directives for which de facto and we bring these amendments and additions, although, although this law regulates the area and production and transport, and the transport itself of the storage of pyrotechnics and weapons, it was mostly an emphasis and what we saw through the very e-debate and only counselling regarding the law, most of it was controversy about pyrotechnics and pyrotechnics, about firecrackers, so it's interesting that this law was interrupted, I think 700 and some comments that were attached to the ministry and to which the ministry responded, and this shows the normal and strength of certain associations when some topic is important to include and make their comments and contributions, and I think that a lot of things have been adopted and that we see here some balance between the trades themselves, but normally and the associations of certain things that are bogged. As regards the implementing directive itself, the law will ensure, of course, that all these checks are made which will be subject to technical specifications now through the MUP which will be the competent authority for the verification. We mentioned normally related to firecrackers F2 and F3 categories of relationship to minors, relationship to those who buy, bans that will take place from 1.2.2021.g. related to the sale and purchase itself, but we mentioned and, normally, it is important to emphasize the very statistics of suffering precisely from these explosive means, especially firecrackers, and how much this affects exclusively, the population that de facto can't buy it, can't even get it, and these are minors. So here we see this one, both 13 and 14 years old, younger than 14. On average, 20 of them are currently suffering from these means. Now if I weren't to enter the classes F1, F2, F3 and others related to these funds, I would only point out at the end what I am and in the replica itself. It is good that the MUP has found itself with a professional association and representatives of the pyrotechnics themselves, we see there is one imbalance and normally that each of them has good arguments and as far as the parties themselves are concerned and the number of injured when compared to another means of injury. Just a comparison of what these professors previously mentioned to me that we should do an analysis and, according to other countries, we see that statistically, as they have said, that in no country of Europe is prohibited from selling pyrotechnics completely, even if it was in the EU or outside of it, and that's a significant point, and that is that we still have to point out, no matter how much the traders are still going to have some difficulties in 2021, this 150 million kuna industry, which, according to these data they have brought out, employs up to 1000 people, so that we have to be very careful, especially by the MUP on the black market, which, since 2021, could increase significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10810	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10811	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad my colleague Bacic noticed what he was and thank him for that, and that's that. 25th of this law in direct coordination with the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. And as this is a 150 million kuna market as much as you say for pyrotechnics, this market that deals with other things and the purchase of equipment and for the MUP and the MORH is much larger. Because what happened to us right now? Most of the representations of all these companies have gone to Slovenia and Slovenian companies today can deal neatly with our both MUP and our MORH, but unfortunately our Croatian companies have been discriminated in this way and that is exactly what the interest and why I had to point out in the best interest that these things are unfortunately due to poor copying of the European directives and excessive normisation of certain things are happening to us. Well, thank you very much for noticing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10812	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10813	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Kuzmanic, for this replica. Normally, we have a second reading opportunity to correct perhaps some shortcomings and something that perhaps the Legislative Committee itself will examine and see, but I don't think there are any problems for our industry when we look at HS Product itself, when we look in general for the domestic military industry, we know that the Croatian soldier is also a Croatian soldier, and here's the policeman, dressed as well as the helmet and gun clothes, all Croatian products, so I think they're subject to all the testing permits. I don't think there's any cohesion here, there's a little bit of this research to do, but I think since we have a relatively strong military industry, I don't believe that, yes, there are certain problems and there are all the licenses that have been issued on the part of the Ministry, but here I agree if there are certain illogicalities here, which you have also noticed that here is the Committee on Legislatives, but I believe the Ministry of Review and before the second reading itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10814	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habib, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10815	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here I will look back at this part of the provisions relating to the ban on the purchase, possession and use of firecrackers and F2 and F3 categories. So, an existing legal solution to persons over the age of 18. the sale of firecrackers and monks referred to in category F2 from 15 December to 1 January and their use from 27 December to 1 January is authorised. The pyrotechnic means are classified in several categories, so we have this class one in which the pyrotechnics are listed for fireworks intended for use inside residential buildings, and represent a very low risk and have negligible noise levels. Category two, pyrotechnics that pose a low risk and low noise levels have been included, and are intended for external use, while in category three, pyrotechnics representing a mean risk and are intended exclusively for external use. In addition to the existing ban and the sale of firecrackers and directors of category F3 the firecrackers and categories F2. Thus, the sale, possession and use of those pyrotechnic means would be prohibited throughout the year, including the period of Christmas and New Year. I therefore welcome this proposal to amend and supplement the law because every year around Christmas and New Year's Eve, we have numerous cases of injuries of minors due to the use of firecrackers and monks, but also numerous warnings of pet owners, especially dogs and cats, who are actually traumatized by the use of pyrotechnics. Although pyrotechnics are used to embellish various celebrations, celebrations, manifestations, they certainly pose a great danger to human health, but also animals. At the time of the holidays we often witness a large number of injuries, most often minors who suffer because of unprofessional handling of precisely pyrotechnics. According to the experience of health professionals, the use of pyrotechnic means is most often caused by injuries such as finger amputation, corneal damage, permanent visual impairment, but also by drums, since sounds above 85 decibels can cause temporary, even permanent loss of hearing, and firecrackers of higher categories can create noise greater than 120 decibels. 1993. The MUP started with the "Peace and Good" action and its continued implementation of how, in enhanced controls, illegal trade in pyrotechnics, increased monitoring during the holidays, but also by carrying out educational actions with a smaller number of injuries due to the use of pyrotechnic means. However, this has already been discussed by other colleagues. We continue to read about the serious injuries of minors obtained by using pyrotechnic means every year during the holidays. This is the case in December, i.e. from 2017, December to January 2018. The MUP has registered 16 injured persons, including 5 children under 14 years of age, and 23 people were injured in the period from December 2018 to January 2019, of which 6 children were injured. In addition to frequent injuries caused by unprofessional use of pyrotechnics, in particular sales of pyrotechnics to minors, use of firecrackers and monks during holidays causes a major problem for dogs and cats and their owners. The problems mentioned year after year also point to numerous asylums for abandoned animals, as well as associations dealing with animal protection. It is known that dogs and cats have developed a sense of hearing above that of humans, and therefore they are much more sensitive to loud sounds and noise. Just at the time of the holidays, the sale of pet tranquilizers is extremely increasing because noise, as well as light effects resulting from the use of firecrackers and monks, can cause stress in animals and even heart arrest. Also, animals are perceived by sudden noise as an attack, but when they use pyrotechnic means, the source of the attack for them is not visible, which is why they are fleeing. Therefore, during that period of the year, there is a large number of reports of dog escape due to the shock experienced. For this reason, I welcome these proposed amendments to the law and would like to mention, for example, that Ireland and Italy have completely banned pyrotechnics, while Sweden has allowed the use and use of pyrotechnics only for authorised persons. For example, the Republic of Germany allows the use of pyrotechnics only on Silvestar Night or 1 January. I am sure in the end that these amendments to the law too, that these changes will indicate that our country is heading towards protecting the health of our citizens, especially children, but also animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10816	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Maria Kapulice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are also here to discuss amendments and amendments to laws which respect the EU's single approach to making these funds available, a uniform approach to market surveillance and the consistency of technical specifications of what is placed on the market. A number of questions have been raised here, including about the voluntary handover of weapons, which is a question that certainly encourages one of these laws. And while I was listening to that proposal, I saw on the pages of the MUP an open invitation for citizens to hand over weapons without any sanctions. Now, is it reasonable to legally regulate the prizes, or is it a matter that the MORH may, as part of its actions before, introduce, and then, at some point, assess that it would benefit faster and more massive handover of illegal weapons, which is a question that should be seen. There was a lot of talk here in view of the strong interest of private companies involved in the sale, including the production of pyrotechnics, as well as exports, therefore, it is a question of pyrotechnic means. Of course, there is a need to take care of the private sector, especially in the conditions in which we are today, in the circumstances of the crisis we have also heard about in the report of the Prime Minister on the work of the government and in the debate of a number of parliamentary deputies, and as far as I can see, the proposer has just delayed the application of this article in this account. It seems to us that he delayed it practically for a month. However, how to use those means to be implemented. The 25th ban is not actually allowed after 2 January, the delay would be the same as that of 15.11. or 15 December 2021. So, it's not just about pyrotechnic means, it's about a number of issues including the marking of firearms, the issue of its incapacitation and the destruction of surveillance, the view of the sale of weapons inside and outside the Republic of Croatia, the exchange of information in that sense, the problems of spatial, technical, security requirements for civil shooting sites, the work of gun companies, etc. However, when it comes to pyrotechnics, I would like to say that those who do this work are not surprised. We had similar announcements before last year's use, use of these funds and launch a petition against such solutions. They follow trends in the market for pyrotechnics, both in Croatia and in the world, and they are well aware of this trend. The share of firecrackers and their data, for example on the Slovenian market, is 3 times smaller than the share of firecrackers in the Republic of Croatia, which accounts for about 10% and 29% in Croatia. And they're right and they need to be given the right to say that given the trend in reducing the use of these funds, in order to achieve my purpose for a certain period of time and without such bans, only in that case would it take us to achieve such a result for 15 years, and I think that people who demand that this problem be solved, and they don't have that much patience, because in the last 20 years, with 60% of the share of firecrackers in pyrotechnic assets that are being sold, they've fallen to about 29%. I'd just like to say for the end of a few words about the danger, it's been warned since the outbreak and the explosion of the black market because of these bans. So, the producers themselves, Croatian producers, distributors of these funds say that the black market currently does not exist in Croatia. And it is a good warning and a useful reminder of the state's obligation to prevent it from going with one such measure. But the argument that the application of this law will result in the expected growth of the black market, that the desired effect of reducing the shooting will not be achieved, and that the firecrackers that will appear on the market will be even stronger and thus more uncertain, does not stand because if we were to see things that way, then most of the areas that we regulate by law would remain open and unregulated. But there is a warning from professional associations that it is necessary to keep an eye on and prevent illegal procurement of pyrotechnics via the Internet, which is indicated as a great danger and possibility, and Now we don't have time to elaborate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10818	We have one replica, respected representative Matko Kuzmanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10819	Honorable representative of the Hood. Here, I'm glad you noticed this part of illegal weapons, that it's practically the biggest problem that we have here, and despite these actions that the MUP is carrying out, and maybe 10, 15, maybe even 20 years, that citizens can volunteer, that they can return it, obviously it doesn't give us enough fruit to, we still have too much of that illegal weaponry in circulation that unfortunately can come into the hands of certain criminal groups and terrorist organisations, which is obviously visible lately and that one life is not worth as much money as I now think it is, maybe it's about 10, 20 million kunas that need to be foreseen in the budget at some level, so let's see what it's going to be like, but believe me, more citizens might return that weapon to get some kind of compensation for that. Whether it's a bullet or not, I don't know, something like that, but mostly, it's something that the government could certainly withdraw some funds from the EU to solve such problems. These are the problems that unfortunately come through us in... Which is not good at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10820	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10821	Well, your claim certainly stands, in that sense, and I was talking about that possibility, although at this point I believe that, I don't know, 98% of cases of misdemeanor have been committed precisely by illegal weapons, but here, I don't know, it can also be confirmed by a representative of the ministry. It is obvious that given the pace of handing over weapons and our assumption of how many weapons there are, because we do not know at this point how many there are, it is necessary to further stimulate citizens to decide on such an act. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10822	Thank you very much. The last individual debate will also be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10823	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Otherwise, I don't usually answer for the word "order" just to fill out the quota, call in when I think I have something important to say and I'm trying to keep it brief and brief. As far as this law is concerned, his provisions, I think, are properly prepared, that he himself is not controversial. I commend his purpose, which is to reduce the number of injured, both when it comes to humans and when it comes to animals. It is good that we are harmonising our legislation with EU directives, although I would prefer that this Assembly acquires a higher level of self-awareness and that we do not have legislative activity as a major part of the copying of EU initiatives and directives, but that we create our own future and that we have our own thread of leadership and vision. But it's not the reason I called for the debate. So every normative act in some way concerns both the way HS works and the way we consume the Rules of Procedure, and on that subject I have two important things to say. First of all, Your Honor, I would ask you not to underestimate the opposition. I'd like to see maybe a larger number of HDZ deputies deployed into these rooms that are in the footnotes of this building, so I'd like to see how many of them would remain until the beautiful evening hours of sitting there. That's one thing. Secondly, do not underestimate that HS's work can be monitored from all over the room. So just because we're not sitting where you're setting us up doesn't mean we're following closely and closely what any of us have to say. And I'm going to look back on something Mr. Miroslav Tudjman said because I actually agree with you. You said something that I say on several occasions, which is behind this speaker, which through working parent bodies, which is that parliamentary committees and working bodies should play a greater role and weight and that they should be discussed in a more detailed way, and I would be pleased if each of these committees were to be more represented by a little bit more familiar with the specific subject being discussed. Unfortunately, here's HS hard, slowly adopts such a practice. And what's the particular reason why I say that? Well, because you mentioned an interesting detail in your discussion, which is that 700 remarks have been made to this law, which are explained on the 500th page. Indeed, it can be found on websites, however, it is disputed that we are representatives in those materials that have arrived at our clubs to receive a report on the consultation with the interested public, I now do not know whether we are the only club that has received such a copy or if you are such a specimen or if you have received such a copy and everyone else, I will show it, I can record it. It says here that the draft was put on, published on the portal e- Consultation and on the website of the Ministry of Interior. The consultation lasted 15 days, from September 3rd to September 17th. And it says like this, during the consultation, no public opinion was received. No single comment was received in the consultation. Maybe it's just a failure, I accept the failures, it can happen to anyone, but this kind of shows that something in the way of work isn't structured properly, and also here, as I said, there are those of us who are very careful and alert to such things. And speaking of how to improve the work and way of working of this Parliament to show that there really is no division of the right and left in some topics and that we really want to protect the public interest in the best possible way, regardless of which political states and what parts of the political spectrum we come from, and I think that this is exactly one such law. So I'm saying, I didn't talk here to politicize in any way. A sentence like this or similar can often be found in the suggestions. With the proposed amendments and additions to the law, we can now, as it is already called, change, eliminate the shortcomings and shortcomings of certain provisions observed during its application. However, I have never, but literally never, ever since I was in this House, I have not seen that the proponent in the explanation explained in detail what are the specific difficulties that have been applied in the implementation of each law. Well, here, I'd like you to take care of that in the future. Good reasoning is the basis of a well-coordinated law. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10824	We have two replicas. He's the first honorary representative of the Habian. Here you go. Stay, stay, if you want to answer, of course, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10825	Thank you very much. With regard to the position, namely the alleged esteemed colleague that the schedule in this House is allocated in a way, if I understand well that it is going to harm the opposition, namely, it is not true, so here, as you know, it is determined in accordance with the quotas, 16 HDZ members have the right to be in the assembly, so with 46 of us outside this assembly, and the fact that the largest number of HDZs here is just talking about the results we have achieved in these elections, it obviously makes it somewhat difficult for you to fall. So, basically, every party is represented in this assembly, and so is outside of it. So, I don't think it's true that the opposition is sub-represented, as you stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10826	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10827	Either you don't understand or you don't want to understand, I just found out that from the presidency's position it came out as if there were no opposition, there is, of course, she's awake and she's listening, and what you're calling for the result, so I'll repeat, 16.4% of the electorate's body has determined this synergy and composition of HS, in your place I wouldn't have been so often called upon and trusted, so that it wouldn't have happened to you that in the next meeting she was incomparably less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10828	The Republic also has a respected representative, Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10829	About this if you hadn't had this whole document, in digital form it's available to 500 and some foreigners, it's a matter of distribution, or... As far as Parliament's work is concerned, if you really want these changes, then you have the next 2 days in the next debate you can suggest as an opposition that instead of every week we have a plenary session, that every other week we have work on committees, so that at the plenary session we only plead on the results of our discussions, and if you support it, I believe that the entire HDZ will support it in a warm manner to organise the work of HS, which is not only for the sake of efficiency, but also because of the epidemiological measures and very acceptable and well received. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10830	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10831	My comment went to a report prepared by the government saying that during the consultation, there were no indications of the interested public, not that there were none. So it's the wrong information in the document that was delivered to the clubs. But as far as the Committee's work is concerned, I am in favour of having committees organised in the days when there are no plenary sessions, but not that plenary sessions are less, and I am in favour of the fact that a larger legislative initiative is just a gift to the Committee's work and that there are people who will really look at and analyze every provision of the law, and not that Parliament is actually just a voting machine of the normative solutions proposed by the Government, so Parliament is a representative body of the people and should be the holder of the legislative initiative, it may be almost a heretic thought, given the established practice that has been going on for many decades, but here is something that I stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10832	Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh, the next replica is... No, he quit, he quit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This, the next replica, is the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10833	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you have started your discussion with the words that you usually only appear when you have something concrete and important to say, so I expected something really important about this bill. At one point I even thought of raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you didn't touch the bill at all, but then you touched the words that you didn't find in the explanation of the proposal of the one, those arguments that were given in the public debate, so I didn't therefore raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I must note that in the whole of your debate you touched everything other than the proposals of this law, so I don't think you said anything very important about it, you were speaking in general about the schedule of sitting, the way the plenary committee works, but in the proposal itself, nothing important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10834	Dear Representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10835	So what a pity it is when the ruling cannot recognize the constructiveity of the opposition, even when it is explicitly emphasized. I said that the provisions of the law itself are not controversial and that every law is also a reason to use it as an opportunity to talk, to talk about the procedure of passing the law. And I said what would be more qualitative explanations, which would be a more quality debate that preceded the debate at the plenary session through the parent committees, which would be more people in these committees who in each topic are better understood than others, and I will allow Mr Tudjman to understand better in weapons than I do in weapons, it will as Parliament as a more quality body and it will be more satisfied with our work regardless of who at some point makes the parliamentary majority. What's wrong with you, ma'am? Is that what the Christmas tree is all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10836	Thank you very much. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10837	I said he's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10838	Now, please, please, no, we can't just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10839	I said he's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10840	...not from the bench, and you can't answer the bench, so that's what we're gonna end up with. Thank you very much, and I will now give my word on behalf of the motionary to the esteemed Secretary of State... Whoever caused the injury, I didn't see it, and the esteemed representative, Shimičević, go ahead. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] What's he hurt about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10841	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who's hurt her ankle. In 238, in fact, in her performance she talked about everything, not the subject she was mentioning, among other things, 16% of the election result. So the election was legal and legitimate, if HDZ and the coalition got 16 and the colleague got 0.016 and the same sits here with us in the parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10842	Comrade Simičević, let's not do this, I'm warning you, it has nothing to do with the whole story. Uh, and the fact that her colleague didn't mostly stick to the subject, she said, and her colleague Jelkovec, so please, let's just stop it, okay? Comrade Bulj, are you sure you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10843	What do you think? [[Clip incursion: Another reminder]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10845	You say it. Thank you very much. Here I was, looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague hurt his ankle. In 238, he spoke of sitting in a assembly which is not a topic, but if you say so, let's first put people on preferential votes, the people chose us preferentially, and we know who would sit in this assembly, and who on the side. Of course, and it's unfair, but talking about this subject and sitting and the way in the assembly, so it has nothing to do with anything. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10846	I'm giving you a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Your Honor, Secretary of State, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10847	I thank you for your opportunity to speak to me for a little while longer. I thank all the MPs and MPs who spoke about the law and who said theirs, I believe in the greatest, constructive remarks. However, I must point out that, since this has been mentioned several times, that this law does not prohibit the use or sale and use of pyrotechnic means rather than practically one type, the firecrackers are one of the 10ths, more than actually 10ths of the pyrotechnic products sold on our market and whose sales are permitted as different types of sprinklers, rockets, fireflies, etc. Roman candles, volcanoes, sets with various products of these categories F1, F2, F3, so for entertainment, fireworks, fireworks boxes, wheels, etc., so there are no fears of losing jobs, and the firecrackers themselves are mostly cheaper means of pyrotechnic which often even with these expensive products are given gratis and thus children come to them easier and there are accidents that we certainly want to prevent. There are, therefore, none other than this, these suitable for, the use of pyrotechnics for, which we now say too much about New Year's holidays, we do not forget that there are different types of shootings and markings that we have daily in our country, which are allowed and regulated by this law and other regulations. It is the most famous to us and the closest of course to the Grički top which each day marks the noon in Zagreb. We've got blue cats, we've got... Alke, we've got a cannon in Pozega for St. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Grgura and in many other places that, not to mention, it is all permitted, regulated and neatly practiced and makes part of our culture and past and often in a touristic sense is tempting and recorded. There is also a growing celebration with the use of pyrotechnics, but it is, today, better, more interesting this pyrotechnics, therefore which is light, therefore more video, and less audio, therefore less aggressive on, on the ears and so on and often JLS, our cities and municipalities in connection with marking the day of the municipality or some other events, tourist communities in tourist regions, individual companies, and also private, private marking whether it is fun. Many citizens also use, so weapons for recreational purposes through sport, shooting and Olympic sport in which Croatia has had great success since its independence, but this law did not, I did not say at the outset, further regulate the question of civilian shooting sites, in particular we regulated temporary civilian shooting sites. So in some places where in a neat, neat and secure way citizens can deal with shooting or other types of use, use of firearms. Of course, firearms and explosives, and that's what the talk was about, are also a significant economic activity. We must not, regardless of our personal relationship to weapons, forget that weapons need military, police, we would not want our officers to be able to use weapons when they need to preserve public order and peace and lives, so they must have and know how to use it in quality and legal terms. We have security guards who also carry out important activities in our society. So, together with the explosives that are, we all know that I'm not teaching you, you know, one of the greatest inventions in mankind's history that allows us to work significantly in economic activities, building municipal infrastructure, roads, railroads, tunnels, viaducts, bridges, significantly facilitating work, in quarrys, etc. So, in Croatia, we have companies that are engaged in and successfully producing weapons and explosive substances, and we will certainly further examine these observations that have been made here, which would go in order to prevent comparative competitiveness or affect the comparative competitiveness of the Croatian economy. This certainly must not be, and if there have been certain errors in the transposition of the Directives, we will carefully consider and correct them. The MUP has been carrying out several actions related to the return of illegal weapons, so it started with "Goodbye to weapons" now for a number of years now known action "Slighter Weapons Less Tragedy". And when we are talking about explosive and explosive pyrotechnic substances and the end of the year, then probably the most famous action by the Croatian police is "Peace and good" which seeks to reduce the illegal use of pyrotechnics and weapons and the number of people killed, children and animals. And that's what the D.O.P. with the state inspectorate and other services will be devoted to, as well as to, each and every one of these 30 years. The law was in public consultation, as I said, from 8 January to 7 February 2020, I apologize if, if someone, if there has been some mistake, I cannot say at this time that something else has been indicated. This law is a very real contribution and the reason for the Institute of Public Consulting or consulting with interested public because, just for example, we have received almost 8 hundred comments, as we have said, and it is obvious that the interested public took part in the preparation of this law to a good degree and we want it to continue to be so. As for the reasons of the law, he, it must be of course quality because it would be a mockery with the legislative procedure if it did not exist, and of course those provisions, such as MP Oreshkovic said, where we are calling for the correction and better formulation of existing articles. But here's also in this law where I've looked at the explanation, I think we've given exactly what articles that we're changing and why we're changing them. If we need that and more, we'll do it, but in this case we're in the 10th provision of this law to make it clear to us clearly. Here, thank you very much for your contribution to making this law as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10848	Thank you. Stay here we have two, too late, two replicas, the first of which is a respected representative of Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10849	Dear Secretary of State, you said here that the law was in a public debate, and since the remark was that there was no justification for the proposals in the public debate, which is not true because on these 500 pages, with each proposal in the public debate, it was written which was accepted, which is not and for what reason. So here you have to say publicly, what you have pointed out yourself, is that this is an example of how public debate is being conducted and how it is being answered or responded, and that someone is not for this reason or for that reason to see it is not a problem, nor is it that we who have seen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10850	I sign every word of counsel from Tudjman. Our services have invested many hours to read and answer, but here it is, it's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10851	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10852	Thank you very much. When we talk about explosive means, we are all concerned with both this law and the animals and the stress that people have and possible injuries and consequences, but the very MUP has shown no concern about 354km under mines since the Homeland War now in the Republic of Croatia, it is in 8 counties, 54 cities, estimated at 31000 landmines. Now he's in the Republic of Croatia while you've removed the people who demining from the ministry and left them to no one, alone, these are the people who protest. So, I agree that we are copying regulations and directives, but currently in Croatia there are 354 km of mined area since the Homeland War, 31,000 mines are estimated. How much this will harm people, animals, 51 municipalities and 8 county areas so much for the care and the copying of the regulations and directives. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10853	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10854	Mine suspected, mine problem is certainly a major problem for the Republic of Croatia because we were burdened with a large number of mine explosives. In the past two and a half decades, the Republic has invested this great amount of resources, the effort of knowledge, and provided a lot of funding from the state budget, the last 5-6. and a lot of funding from the European Funds, the number, so mine suspected space has fallen significantly, significantly, all settlements, gardens, communications, embankments, roads etc. are, railway lines are demining, but there are still certain areas, forest, so the agricultural areas are demining, certain forest and difficult accessible areas, intensively working on it, and if we have enough resources, we will solve the mine problem as we said by 2026 until March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-04-0.u10855	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, Thursday at 10 pm, repeat at 10 pm and will be the first point of the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projection for 2021 and 2022. Have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 17.34 p.m.
