ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u181371	The next one will speak to a respected independent representative, Bruno Esich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u181372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. She's a lawyer. Here's something I'd like to say once again about this terrible tragedy in Croatian or how in 30 years we discovered that in Croatia there are two full-time refugees and, as it turns out, it's very positive, except for the Germans, of course, and one Mason for real, and not only in Mark Perkovic-Thompson's songs. We have been listening for days, which in the Parliament, and what in the media, is a very serious analysis of how Mr. Attorney General Jelenic's membership in the secret mass association and mutual support of members is a major danger to an independent state attorney and the judiciary in general. It was taken seriously by everyone, and his resignation was called by those who, behold, had never sinned against the system. Jelenic was then dragonishly punished by being the deputy chief state attorney and the problem has been solved. No one, therefore, will be responsible for the fact that the legislative and intelligence system, as a result, stole a mistake in the way of missing a security check because what we don't do ourselves, we're used to, will be done by someone else for us. Thus, two Croatian seditaries lustrated Germany, with the general enthusiasm of the then prime minister, and today's President of the Republic, and a Croatian masseuse lustrated himself. Lustration was in Croatia and is still a very unpopular word because it knows something about someone who will rule our fates tomorrow, it is a violation of his human rights and freedom. Risking now to be called again by the hearthist or conspiracy theorists, I'll ask. Which would be the difference between secret Masonic lodges, secret Yugoslav services and their associates, of course, a bunch of civil society associations and that on... those who finance foreign governments and foreign organisations, certain traditional associations, secret lovers of Croatian electricity, Russian oil derivatives or semi-secret circles with the smell of peppermint. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all stakeholders whose sole objective is to achieve and maintain the positions achieved in order to achieve a certain profit, at the expense of the State, of course. It is all dear gentlemen, and dear peoples, who are exploring and disgusting Mr. Jelenić, the cause of the damage that Croatia has been beating for decades, and we can bring him down by one single denominator, which is Balkan clientelism. Will it finally become clear that these systemic errors are in fact designed to function and reflect this system? Policy, corrupt judiciary and rich recentities, is a crazy centrifuge in which our Croatia is turned, and without any real prospects, while, for the development of entrepreneurship, for remaining young people, for self- realisation on the basis of their own work, for any perspective of a successful state. Because how to survive and stay in a country where politicians, intelligence systems and the judiciary are funded by our money, and these funds are not allocated to optimization of the system. A system in which you will not, for example, become obsolete with your righteous claims on which you may have already paid taxes, but rather, by multiplying that already rotten system. There's no room for pathetics here today. Even less for any of the people's tattoos. The elections are getting closer, and that same people will already tell who they want in power. And the rest of you thank you for, behold, making such an effort to stage this play so that we can see clearly what they have done with our Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186963	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Although we are in a rather modest number we will begin with the work as it was announced and will first be: - Final proposal of the Law on Official Statistics, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206 on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should be discussed as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Katica Prpic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186964	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, I welcome all of you from the bottom of my heart. Here means the area of official statistics in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by the applicable Law on Official Statistics since 2003, and it has been amended and supplemented in two times in 2009 and 2012 and therefore in 2013 the consolidated text of the law has been published. The State Statistics Office as a body of the state administration is the main holder, disseminator and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia and the main representative of the National Statistical System under the European and international statistical authorities responsible for statistics. Official statistics play an important role in a democratic society because the state, economy, public provides objective and impartial information on economic, demographic, social, health and environmental conditions, activities or events that can be measured by statistical methods and ensures compliance with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production and dissemination of official statistics. The European Statistical System was regulated by the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and also by the 2015 Regulation, as well as by other EU acts, constitutes a legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of European statistics. Given the need to introduce new measures and instruments of harmonisation of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia with the European statistical system, adaptation to the European legal framework and the need to introduce a simpler normative solution, organisation and functioning of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia, the creation of a new legislative act is considered to be a necessary and optimal solution. This bill aims to ensure that the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia is further developed as part of a European statistical system in line with the EU legal framework and tailored national needs. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 5.a of the 2015 Regulation provides for the obligation of Member States to provide that the recruitment and appointment procedures of the heads of national statistical offices are transparent and based solely on professional criteria and that the reasons for the dismissal of the head of national statistical offices or their transfer to another post do not prejudice professional independence. As regards these provisions of the State Administration System Act, it is prescribed that public administration bodies are managed by state officials, and that a special law can be prescribed that the State Administration is managed by a state official, if necessary in order to take over or ensure the implementation of legally binding EU acts. In accordance with the Law on the System of State Administration, the Director-General of State Administration shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Prime Minister. Following those provisions, the proposal of the Law on Official Statistics, as a special law, provides that the DZS is managed by the Director-General, who is the Head of State Officer and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Prime Minister, on the basis of a public tender carried out for a period of five years. The law also lays down the rights and obligations of the Director-General, the conditions for selection and appointment and resolution. In order to ensure better coordination and to ensure the efficiency of quality of development of production and dissemination of official statistics, the Republic of Croatia provides for the establishment of a working body i.e. The Committee for Official Statistics Systems of the Republic of Croatia, composed exclusively of representatives of the holder of official statistics, i.e. representatives of the DZS, the CNB, and other bodies of the public authority which are through the statistical programme to certain holders of official statistics. Currently as holders of official statistics there are also HZJZ, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment and Energy and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb responsible for official statistics services for the City of Zagreb area, which, through this proposal, becomes an integral part of the State Statistics Institute. The obligation of the holder of official statistics is to organise official statistics in a way that ensures the quality and timely implementation of statistical activities from their parts and the adequate protection of confidential statistics held by the official statistics holders and which are transferred to the European statistical system in accordance with the 2009 Regulation. It is also prescribed by this legislative proposal that the State Statistics Office may, at the request of the user, provide statistical data processing services using previously collected data and that the funds are made available from the provision of such services, the means of purpose used to finance the additional costs incurred by the operations resulting from which the revenues were also incurred for the settlement of the costs of official statistics. Furthermore, in practice so far, it has been shown that the coordination of the draft programme of statistical activities with the holders of official statistics and the statement of the assessment of the fiscal impact of the draft programme also raises difficulties which make it difficult to draw up that document within the time limit of the applicable Official Statistics Act, which was until 31 May of the current year for the next period covered by the statistical activity programme. Therefore, this proposal established a new deadline, i.e. has been extended to 31 October of the current year for the following period. Also, due to the prescribed legal deadlines and the obligation to draw up a previous fiscal impact assessment for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in the current practice, the problem of its inability to adopt it in a timely manner has emerged, and the deadline is also extended. This proposal for legislation introduces a simplification of the procedure by adopting the annual implementation plan of statistical activities and related to the proposed change of competence regarding the adoption of the annual implementation plan of this legislative proposal, and provides for a report by the State Statistics Institute on the implementation of the annual implementation plan to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to that, the holder of official statistics shall determine the time limit for the submission of the statistical activity proposal from its section and the obligation and delivery of the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the proposed statistical activities. The proposal also provides for a detailed review and deadlines for the implementation of official statistics, as opposed to the current legal solution according to which official statistics have been found to be disseminated in accordance with the deadlines set for the annual implementation plan, which only provides for indicative deadlines for the publication of official statistics. In accordance with the European legal framework, international recommendations and best practice, cases of exceptional dissemination of confidential statistics are prescribed. For better organisation of business official statistics, the bill regulates the National Statistics Institute to take over official statistics from the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, responsible for official statistics and employees found in the performance of these tasks, equipment, food and other documentation, means of work and rights and obligations of the exchange of jobs. The takeover of jobs and employees has been planned since 1 September 2020. This law also regulates that the statistical council has 13 members instead of 19 existing members in the future, and makes them, the Director-General of the DSZ, acting as the Office of Finance, for the Economy, Representative of the National Bank, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, scientific organisations enrolled in the register of scientific organisations, employers, trade unions, civil society organisations and media. Finally, the application of this bill will ensure the completion of the reorganisation of the business of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the data collection process and the establishment of the status of the official statistics holder, which began on 1 January 2010, by taking over official statistics from the Office of the State Administration in the counties as well as officials and subsistences found in the conduct of these tasks. The centralised organisation of state statistics businesses will allow faster integration of new IT technologies and methods in the process of collecting, producing and disseminating official statistics and harmonising the RS official statistics system with EU regulations. The resources for the work of the statistical council are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, given that the statistical advice is already established by the applicable Law on Official Statistics. Compared to taking over official statistics from the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, the responsibility for official statistics services is also provided in the State budget for 2020 as well as in projections for 2021 and 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186965	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, a type of don replica, this first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186966	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, the draft law that goes into emergency procedure among other things provides for the abolition of the competent administrative authority in the City of Zagreb in charge of statistics. For years this competent body has been doing statistics for the City of Zagreb, it seems to me according to those brochures that they regularly publish and there is this very regular tradition, and these brochures are extremely useful in the processes and management of the city and spatial planning of the abolition of that body, which were the reasons why it was made, so I understand that you are doing some kind of reformity at state level, but I am not sure that this will improve anything in the system of statistical data, so please why, what was the decision and what was the reason? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186967	Thank you, next replicas of the esteemed representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186968	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director of the State Department with Associates. We must stress the importance of the statistics and the data that we are getting and which we are serving and in this sense, and this harmonisation is also very important for the adoption of this law, however, as it is important for both human and human potentials, and also for the electronic aids to be served, it is important to strengthen the entire system. In relation to this law that goes on, in the first and emergency procedures, we, as a committee, feel that there is no need to change jurisdiction or that it should be returned to the old law authority of HS to bring forward the annual implementation plan. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186969	Thank you very much, the next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186970	Thank you very much. So unfortunately, there are very few representatives in the assembly today, we are discussing a very important law for me, and I have been talking for years in this assembly about what is important for the State Statistics Office for the Republic of Croatia, given its communication with Brussels, and therefore my personal thinking and I think that the government should have thought about it, when you take the institutions the State Statistics Office is coordinating, I don't know how much of the status of a leading civil servant if it is at the head of the State Statistics Institute with this as adequate as it is, I think that the head of the State Statistics Office should have received a completely different position precisely because of this importance, because everything that the Republic of Croatia will financially need to carry out obligations to Brussels, and also the rights that will follow, the most of it comes from the data processed and preparation of the National Statistical Office. Therefore, we as Parliamentarians must be aware of the importance of this body and of the law We must give this importance. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186971	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Marijana Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186972	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected secretary of state, director with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, it is before us today, so the proposal of the Law on Official Statistics, and at the very beginning, I want to point out that the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support its adoption. In her opening statement, the State Secretary presented this law in a very exhaustive manner, let me repeat some of the most important elements once again. So, the Republic of Croatia's statistical system is producing impartial statistics on social and economic processes in society, while at the same time providing the necessary facts which are the basis for monitoring and analysing the situation and directing policies related to both the development of Croatian society and the economy and EU policies as a whole. We can therefore conclude that official statistics have one of the most important roles in a democratic society since we have heard the same from the opening presentation, the state, the economy and the public, providing objective and impartial information both in the economic, demographic, social, health and environmental conditions, and on activities or events that can be measured by statistical methods, and they ensure that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production of official statistics are met. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of such a law are multiple, primarily in order to bring national and European statistical legal frameworks into line, to strengthen the coordination of the role of the State Statistics Institute, and to introduce simpler normative solutions, the organisation and functioning of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of official statistics is of course reflected in the fact that all decisions, programmes and measures relevant to the economic development of the state are based on relevant and accessible statistics. Therefore, these data must be as credible as possible in order to make the best decisions to further develop an economic sector. Official statistics have long been collected according to the rules adopted by international organisations, and instructions and methodological manuals are drawn up for the collection and collection of data. Therefore, taking into account the need to introduce new measures and instruments, the harmonisation of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia with the European Statistical System of Adjustment to the European legal framework, and the need to introduce a simpler normative solution. The adoption of such a law is considered, of course, an optimal and necessary solution. What I would finally add and point out is that this law is also part of the action plan of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Course Mechanism 2 and the Banking Union and it will certainly strengthen both independence and reliability of the State Statistics Institute, which is one of the most important objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186973	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186974	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Like this, I could make a good morning's name, good morning, so I could count how many of us there are. It's always a big secret to me that some laws cause some, I don't want, some attention, some less attention, and then we say, well, it's afternoon, but this isn't a law that could be developed to discuss boys in the dresses they've been doing since Tuesday, Wednesday, when it's been published, so these builders who are free when it's been published, so we're all actually dealing with it, no newspapers, nothing. This is one law that should be important for the country, this is one law that really, regardless of what it is, there's not something that we can do right now, but it should be important for the country. The last law in this house was, was 2013 the last amendment, so for seven years we've been working under the same law, and now we're coming to 2020, my opening question is why did you decide to go into emergency procedures? Because I have to admit it too, too, to this great mystic, we have some laws that go into two readings, so it would be logical to make some changes when there are two or three articles, it could be in an emergency procedure, this is one law that seems to me, it deserves to go into two readings, but given the attention of all of us who got 'we' have one or two readings, dear God anyway, look at how many of us there are and how many of us are reported in the debate. Statistical data is extremely important and extremely important. They're important to be objective and impartial. It is important that all the time the data collected in Croatia be consistent with the e-statistic system or the European statistical system so as to call it for a simple reason to be comparable because according to certain statistics we compare and we need to be comparable there. I often talk from this pay phone, and I'm not that parliamentary representative of general practice so that I can talk about all things and I won't talk and I won't ever become one, but I'm talking about what seems to be important, that it's important and I'm talking and I'm going to talk about these statistics that are being collected in the context of something that is my education, as soon as I've dealt with and it's spatial planning. When you enter spatial planning, so when you start to deal with spatial planning, the first thing you pull, you extract statistics. The first data you need, you need data related to demographics, you get a number of things that talk about the communal equipment of certain parts of the city, certain parts of the country, tells you about some of the changes that have been made, tells you how many pensioners, how many children there are, how many employees there are, talk about how the structures of the employees change, how the structures of the sex are changed, so you can read absolutely and without any problem how much they need to develop one space. Somewhere in the last century, all the spatial plans that were and we have a long, long tradition of spatial planning, all the spatial plans always referred to 2000, 2000 was some mystical year like 2000, so that's all going to change. There were spatial plans that predicted that there would be a million inhabitants in Zagreb from 2000 to 2000, we didn't come to a million people, and in 2000 there was a year where there could have been anything in Croatia, so you compare some of the spatial plans and possibilities that were also the number of inhabitants, or for which the number of inhabitants were foreseen, then one of those very conservative methods, when all these spatial plans were edified, about 20 million inhabitants, we had construction areas in spatial plans and statistics showed something else. You can see from the statistics whether to plan an economic zone at all, because if there hasn't been an economy in that space in years, nothing, then it's a big question that you're planning for the economic zone. And that's why statistics are important. They're important that you compare yourself with someone else. Croatia as one of the 27 EU countries and here we are, of course, the youngest through this data, we can compare with someone else. We all remember very well the last census you had and the data you were about to provide, there a series of data that talk about the communal equipment of the space you live in. So you read a hell of a lot out of it. When a country is working on a strategy, its economic strategy, a strategy of its economic development that should be made for Croatia by 2030 with a perspective like Croatia in 2050, then you take statistics, statistics are some indicators, out of them very clearly and unequivocally, so I am that technical education, I love numbers because the figures show everything. The figures show you also the processes that were, the figures show you and how much money you have to invest for an area to reach some level and all of them use statistical data together. I asked the secretary of state about the office of the city of Zagreb not because I think that this office under every drop of blood should be kept, but in one part of my life I was at the head of a body in the city of Zagreb in which the office belonged and there were not 11 employees as it is now because I see that 11 employees take over, it was much more and I have to admit that it was years ago, I was very surprised, so it was an office that belonged to the Institute of Spatial Development of the City of Zagreb and then when I became the head of all that, then I say listen, what else and those who are dealing with statistics, but there's a reason, there was a good reason, they were giving you the information on which we based all the other things, they give you the information when you decide to go and decide to bring him to the purpose, then he gave you the information of what your communal equipment, which could be, so a series of good data. Two, two things I'd like more added, extra pointed, one thing is a leader. Here in the law, however, and in the opening statement, the State Secretary emphasized this professional independence, which, which must be, must be given by the head of the national statistical, national statistical office, so it would somehow be elemental, to put it this way, courtesy of 2020. It should really be that a man is led to be the wife of a man of professional independence, because in some places you can really name someone politically and in some places. But I always wonder if the principle of, say, some kind of physics agency would come from a man who doesn't know anything about it. I'm equally sure that the head of the office or the head of the office should be an absolute man who is highly independent, but you know well how they actually change here regardless of what we should talk about, what we should point to. There are two other things that I would like to point out, and that is this Committee on the System of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia. I'm careful, I went to read out who's there and now it's pretty wide and there's nothing that seems to be good to be. We had I think last week in the parliamentary procedure first reading the amendments and additions to the Law on national infrastructure of spatial data or indicators, that law passed in 2013 according to the speaker directive, these are certain spatial indicators that are being collected, the body that is in charge and which is the national contact point is the State Geodetic Authority. Maybe emergency procedures, so we can only make this one amendment, but maybe it was a place to talk about that body to someone being on the Committee on the System of Official Statistics, it could be just an improvement for a simple reason, because all the statistics that is, it's dry, it's numbers, but it's also related to a number of other data because they're collecting data, too, so that, if the data were comparable, it's not duplicated and everything else that needs to be, so that here in relation to that, given that you could go in an emergency procedure with only one amendment, so I might be very quick to my office and give that amendment, we don't think that it would upset us all of what it is, and in order for it to work out, with the operation, it would be extremely good. We from the GLAS Club will support this proposal of the Law on Official Statistics. That's the one order, that's the one group of technical laws that we can use and that we need and that can only help us, and that's how we need to discuss them, and that's how we need to sort of define them. In order for some things to be better, we could, but we need to distinguish that and we often do not distinguish between law and reality from this pay phone. But somehow I always get the feeling when it comes to statistics, we all talk about something, so we say it's this wrong or it's not so wrong, but we respect it neatly, and we use it neatly in everything we do next. Therefore, here is the conclusion, we will support this, this law, and it seems to us that it would be good if indeed in this Committee on the System of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia and being a representative of the state geodetic administration, it would be only good for you, not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186975	Thank you, we are moving on to an individual debate, the first should be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, who is not there, who is losing his right to debate, and the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Suker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ma'am. State Secretary, ma'am. Head of the State Statistics Institute. I am truly sorry that we are no longer in the assembly today because we are talking about an extremely important topic, which is the Law on Official Statistics, because just take what we are this week, which were political debates and bickering, take just about the number of people left from the Republic of Croatia and this is not the process that has been happening in the last few months, in the last 2 years, it is a process that has happened since the entry into the EU, and it is certain that the State Statistics Office should do a statistical survey on what happened, why it happened, present it to the Croatian public, no one has the right to bid how many Croats have gone, how many Croats have not gone. Another thing, also those people who have left the Republic of Croatia still exercise some rights in the Republic of Croatia, so there are topics that simply do not suffer political debates and that may be why today there is not much debate on this subject. Statistics are facts, facts that are collected, which are subordinated to the processing methodology and are published as such. However, what is very important for the Republic of Croatia, and especially for the Statistical Office since the arrival of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, data processed and sent to Eurostat by the State Statistics Office are very important for the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, on the basis of this data, we are achieving certain rights, certain benefits, but we are also creating certain obligations. And when you take the weight of both then you can talk about tens of billions of kunas because when you take what is the financial package of the Republic of Croatia in the seven-year financial envelope and when you take what are the obligations of the Republic of Croatia according to the budget, the central budget to say so, you will see that these are not negligible funds. And it could also happen to say Eurostat says simply the data of a particular country that has been delivered to us are not exactly accurate and puts you in, to say the least, in red and then what? And today we're discussing the State Statistics Office and this law is technically I agree with the lady here. Dark-Taritash. However, why did I answer for an individual debate? That's the topic I've been talking about in this assembly for years. So, what I want to say today clearly, your thinking and thinking, that the State Statistics Institute, above all, needs to be technically equipped and improved. The other thing is, statistics are specific knowledge, so I would even say a specific trade in economic science. Statistics aren't everyone's business. Statistics can only be dealt with by people who have learned it well, well learned, and not to speak for processing certain data, and they certainly need knowledge. Today life is very dynamic, events in the economy are very dynamic, and if people who process certain data do not have the opportunity to educate themselves, not only in Croatia, but also outside Croatia, then we simply, first of all, as parliamentary representatives, because you saw that, in the proposal for an amendment of the Committee on Finance, we are a provision that was in the bill of law, that the annual plan of statistical research brings the Government, we are an amendment unanimously, and an opposition and ruling that this programme of annual convocations would bring the Croatian Assembly. We simply and in such a way give meaning, and then we will adopt an annual report on HZS's work, and in such a way these documents get one additional power because one is when parliamentary representatives, no matter how much someone is educated, how much someone is interested, but when you look at this report, you will always find one segment that might refer to your region, might refer to what you are professionally dealing with, what you might want to discuss, why it is, why it is not. And even some statistical indicators can tell us whether certain funds that have been invested in a particular area from the budget, whether they have achieved the results that we wanted to achieve, have not achieved the results. So, one who reads between lines can read a lot and find a lot of interesting reading for himself. And that's why I'm sorry to hear about this law, and I'm afraid there's no discussion in the report in this House. And why is there no debate? Because you can't memorize the data, etc. but you can only tell the facts. That's all. The second thing, when you look at who's involved in this bill, so to speak, in the state statistics process, so to speak, the Republic of Croatia, then you'll see that these are the ministries that have a lot of financial resources from the state budget, that's the budget we're bringing here in HS. And then, who wants to take a closer look at certain statistical indicators, he will see if these funds are quite adequately spent, or perhaps those who manage it should think differently. And the pandan of that, the very important subject that delivers, so to speak, the data according to Brussels is the CNB. We've had a debate here last week on the new CNB Act, everything and everything we've heard, but simply the facts are facts, there are two institutions, roof, so to speak, even though by their status, so to speak, the position, HZS it's not, but the CNB is, which process it and send the data out. Data to which someone is measuring us because when we talk here about the deficit of the state budget, then very often we who are a little more concerned with these finances, then we are talking about the ESA methodology of this, the ESA, the ESA of this kind, the ESA 2010, and this is what someone in Brussels has laid down the rules on the basis of which the budget deficit of a country is accounted for. We use one modified form in Croatia, a little bit of one of our own stories, but Eurostat also knows when the HZS processes all the data and when it sends them up, with the data sent by the Ministry... And the CNB, then that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then no one here in Croatia or in this assembly can say, is that so. It can't be like that. Why? Because it is the verified data in Brussels. Recertified data from all international financial institutions. And now, here, tonight there is a big debate in Brussels, and Prime Minister Plenkovic is up there fighting for this one additional package that Croatia needs to get on the grounds that we are the last member to join the EU, and I sincerely hope that it will succeed, however, not certain data from the Bureau of Statistics, from the CNB, that until a certain point of view, our negotiators would therefore be headed by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, have no arguments that they are looking for something from a certain position. There is something else I have been talking about for years as a minister, I sincerely hope that someone will eventually process it, and that is how difficult it is in the Croatian budget, forgive me for the expression, the difficult, indirect and direct consequences of the war. So, according to some rough calculation, every year we put about 10 billion kuna into the Republic of Croatia's budget to cover the direct and indirect consequences of the war. And as time goes by, as some exercise rights, that amount may be higher and certainly not negligible data, which, above all, science will have to deal with because the consequences of the war aren't just, these, you have a series of industrial centres of the Republic of Croatia which, unfortunately, are practically gone. Let's take the closest of us here, Sisak and Karlovac, and not to mention the Vukovar he had in this economic area, there will be someone at one scientific level who will need to process what happened, these were the direct consequences of the war. The direct consequences of the disappearance of the former state market. So, I'm just here literally trying to put on some topics that can be discussed by wanting to point out the importance of the DZS and thus say that the head man of the DZS... A different status than a state official, and to us parliamentary representatives, very often, I hope that the website of the State Statistics Office in the future will look a little more beautiful and better, this site should also be the basis for us to prepare for the debate and that our discussions will be better and better whether it is a profession or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, together with these proposed amendments to the amendments, with all the proposals that will be made when we discuss both the annual plan and the annual report and the desire to improve the material and educational status of employees in the Croatian Statistical Office, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186977	Thank you. He's the first respected representative of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186978	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker, you are right that the importance of the State Statistics Institute is very great for the Republic of Croatia because this statistical data is the basis for planning, for making strategies, for looking at what happened to be seen on which any movement was and this is what you said we should do research on how many people went. I think we should have done that already. And I think that the Institute of Statistics is certainly equipped, and I agree with you and the apparatus and personnel if they lack that it reacts faster, that the data is processed more quickly because the information and information that comes as soon as possible is more important for planning and planning the budget and for planning programmes in the ministries, means one foundation that is certainly chosen in Croatia. And since you're in the ruling coalition right now, make sure that this statistical office is As high-quality and as good as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186979	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186980	Thank you very much. This last sentence I especially love, colleague Lenart, we were once together in the ruling coalition. Therefore, it is not the ruling coalition that I see us here in the Croatian Parliament as responsible people and my debate was not in service of any coalition or anything but an attempt to encourage all of us to discuss certain indicators that are very important to all of us as citizens. So, it's me, my debate went that way. In no discussion who's like this, I could say what's been going on with the Bureau of Statistics since '13. Until '16, but it didn't occur to me to talk about it. Because that's just not what I'm interested in. We're talking about a new law today, and I think we should talk about what needs to happen today. Therefore, each and every one of you, not only by ruling the state budget, will have the opportunity to say that I believe that this position should be so and so. So, I think my debate went that way, I'm sorry if you understood otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186981	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186982	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Shuker, I agree with you that the accuracy of the data is statistical because they will also see as a defined framework for Croatia to invest in the European budget, as well as ultimately how much we will be able to withdraw funds and it is necessary for these data to be as accurate as possible. It is therefore important to strengthen the State Statistics Institute. But I answered the line to tell you from the angle of that data. They come from the field, from craftsmen, entrepreneurs, family farms. And often when you talk to them, you hear from them that they're too complicated things and that they're often bullied by the force of that data that they have to deliver and they need to come up with models to simplify it in order to have as fast as possible and as high-quality data as possible. And secondly, as you expect a man who deals with the production of milk to get 2 to 2.5 kuna for that liter of milk, there's no way he's going to live out of it, and then he's still good at filling the data and sending it in time. We need to design models first of all so people can live off their work, and then they'll be happy to fill out those forms... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186983	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186984	My colleague Vlaovic, you were just like me, the head of the local self-government unit, you know well how to collect data. I've been trying to say here all along that statistics, data processing can't be politics or anything, it's a fact. So they have to figure out from year to year whether some things that aren't good happened, which are too complicated, that's why they can't get adequate data, so that's, but that's what I'm talking about, education. Education isn't just a professional education, education is to get information from the field, what you suggested, whether it's appropriate or not. So, education always goes into 2 measures, because if you only theoretically educate yourself, and you don't know how to apply it in practice, take how diverse Croatia is and you haven't done anything. So the concept of education is something much wider. And the concept of education is what you said. You can think in the office that the pattern is the best, but on the ground it's a disaster And what's the result, none. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186985	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186986	Thank you very much, Vice President. Say hello to everyone one more time. In fact, I'm as consterned as my colleague Schucker is to discuss very little about this subject and encourage it to point out once again how important it is for every data that is obtained and sublimed in this way and when it is done by this data-using and co-ordinated with many services, institutions, ministries, to get as high as possible data and then to discuss it with them and to deal with them and to make what is important and some future decisions. Because here's when you look and I agree here and I have expressed my wish and request that the State Institute do much more at the quality of the website itself and the availability of the data so that we and using this data in our daily work can get to them as quickly as possible, and that will require this interface that will be very high-quality in order to get the data we need. What I would like to point out in particular is the report that Eurostat and Ms Kotzeva gave to the Ministry of Statistics in this year, which is that significant changes took place and that has improved the system of state statistics by not forgetting that we still have the part that we need to solve, so the institution to make this even more accurate, more complete and timely so that more actual data is available. This is what we should be working with and what we should be working on, but that there have certainly been significant quality shifts and we expect that with the already mentioned higher amount of funds approved in the state budget for 2020 and so on, the Institute will make real quality shifts in this regard. I'd like to take a look at this state of eviction and occupancy in and out of the Republic of Croatia, if you look at the current report you have on the website of the office, then you can keep a nice eye on the total emigrations from 2014 to 2018, for example. Since 2014, we have 20,000 emigrated, 2015. 29,651, 2016 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/61 of 18 December 2017 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1036/2006 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2017, p. 1). 37.5515 and 39,352 and 2018. Compared to those who have been displaced since 2018, we have moved 26.029, so Europe and the whole world, the EU as a whole, as well as all other countries. So when we talk about not having some data, then we just have to look at some facts and see that it's not how some claim it, but that we need to read some data qualityly and then apply them to the current situation. Also from this data is important then that I do not read them to see which parts of the world they come from, in which way exactly what my colleague Schuker was saying, whether our residents who have moved have the rights, whether they have checked out for health insurance, who is carrying that part of the burden, etc. All of these are individual data that must then be thoroughly analysed in order to create certain policies and then know in what way to project whether here is the problem of financing in health care, the quality of health care or something else, so the quality of housing, because when a European looks at our statistics as much as we do not know, the bathroom in the house or how many other municipal equipment we have, then they also evaluate us to the quality of our life. But that's a very significant piece of information to us, too, what Mrs. Dark Taritash said, where in this way we can bring some strategies and policies and thus contribute to developing in that real sense. So, the importance of each and every one of us as much as we do, and we know from practice sometimes seems to be something that's too far-fetched, but it's very important because that way we can create the right picture and ultimately make the right political or economic decision on how we're going to develop. This is why I also point out once again what we discussed on the Committee itself, that it is very important that it is very important that this is exactly what the DZS itself is doing, that it is very important that the Croatian Parliament discusses it, that it also makes decisions and that it has insight into everything that is happening because this is the right place to be discussed. And that's why we support this law anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186987	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186988	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana, I listened very carefully to you, but also to my colleague Shuker when he said there was no room here for general political, political debates. I agree with that, but the problem is when solutions like this, or when statistics don't provide answers that Mr. Shucker rightly pointed out as a problem, and that's why people move out, how many they move out, how trends they are, what we can do to get people back to the Republic of Croatia, and that's something to talk about here because we've been witnessing for the past 3.4 years that almost 200,000 of our citizens have left Croatia. We can't be satisfied with that, and it would be good if we got the statistics of the answers to this particular guy, which are the reasons for the eviction, what we can do to get people back, and then that would be, I'd say, useful for us who make certain decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186989	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186990	So, dear colleague, the DZS is responsible for these data that they collect to be as high-quality and as accurate as possible, and on all other entities, it is then to deal with these data and analyze it. So that main responsibility is certainly not on the DZS. When you look at what I have read, and this trend that since 2013 and since 2014, respectively, that trend has increased to 2018 when it fell by about 9,000, it is also important to take account of very well, and it will be interesting what it will be in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186991	The next individual, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, was raised by a colleague, Maras, in what way did the Rules of Procedure get hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186992	Well, I mean, statistics is an exact science, so that's where we can measure numbers...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186993	.../Intruder Reiner: Excuse me, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186994	- Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Perić was injured by an article. In 238 and said incorrect information, so he didn't fall...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186995	You're getting a warning because you know it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186996	... the number of people evicted from Croatia, unfortunately in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186997	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, sit down, you get a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186998	I agree, I just wanted to say that she said the wrong information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u186999	A fellow Maras, based on art. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187000	... [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187001	Based on the fact that after I warned you, you continued to speak, you were aware that you were violating the Rules of Procedure. Next individual debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187002	Just a little bit, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187003	Comrade Maras, I beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187004	This is scandalous. No one's ever taken my word from me in Parliament like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187005	I'm asking you to sit down...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187006	I'm not gonna sit down because you're making a mess. You're making a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187007	A fellow Maras, based on art. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187008	Wait, you just took my word from me, so now you're taking away my word until the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187009	Yes, sit down because you are violating the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187010	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to sit down, you've been looking forward to me saying one sentence to take away my word that I can't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187011	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, please take a seat./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187012	I'm asking you to give me back that I have a real debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187013	.../Intruder Reiner: Behave yourself in accordance with the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187014	No, you're being polite. I have the right to debate in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187015	.../Intruder Reiner: Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187016	But you can't give me after the first warning immediately taking away the word, it's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187017	Because you didn't stop talking, I wanted to ask you to stop talking and sit down. You knowingly continued to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187018	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187019	I'm still doing it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187020	No, I didn't. So turn me off, yeah, come on, turn me off. Mr. Rainer, I'm asking you to give me back my right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187021	.../Intruder Reiner: The next individual debate will be.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187022	.../Intruder Maras: Can you give me back my right to speak?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187023	Of course I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187024	But look, I mean...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187025	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go, buddy Bull. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187026	.../Intruder Maras: The right to harm the Rules of Procedure I still have./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187027	You don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187028	.../Intruder Maras: I have./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187029	Comrade Maras, what do you have then?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187030	Mr. Vice President, you've injured the Rules of Procedure in giving notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187031	.../Intruder Reiner: You have no idea what article./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187032	That's an art. From 230 onwards, read to yourself and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187033	Come on, don't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187034	So you couldn't give me two consecutive warnings for this thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187035	Okay, if you think I was wrong, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187036	.../Intruder Maras: What, the one you are chairing?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187037	The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that resolves this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187038	.../Intruder Maras: So what, when you're tried, cadiya sues you, that's that variant?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187039	Comrade Maras, so listen to yourself, you constantly, knowingly continue to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187040	.../Intruder Maras: Yes, because you have not given me the right to speak./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187041	You try with me, I don't know, fight, compete, I won't argue with you. I can't think of going down on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187042	.../Intruder Maras: Yes, yet you are the knight of Jerusalem's tomb./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187043	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187044	No, I won't sit until you give me the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187045	Of course I won't give it to you, I don't think so. I'll give the right to speak to a respected representative of Bull who has an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187046	Thank you very much. We are talking about statistics, we are talking about a new proposal for a law on statistical data, but the fact is that statistics that come from statistics are mathematically coming up with a number of analyses, but I would say here whether Croatian politics and policies are actually looking at these analyses and what is actually happening. All of this now, this proposal of yours, essentially this is a alignment with European official statistics, in fact nothing spectacular is going on except for some other body that's going to be, which is being presented here, but the fact that we're talking about statistics, it's basically just going out in the Republic and there was a dead letter on the policy paper that had to be analytically analysed, mathematically that came to results, which, unfortunately, were. I'm not gonna be here to throw just black stuff away and say that they're devastating about whatever we're going to do. If we go on the demographic issue, we see that statistical indicators say that in the Republic of Croatia the condition is that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. That we have a situation where the government with examples of curricular reform, education, the minister emphasizes it while in my Sinj, in the Brnaza settlement that has 5000 inhabitants, it is fortunate that the children were not at that time at school, the roof has fallen so that demographic policy and statistical indicators and what the Minister and Government of Andrej Plenkovic boast to invest in these pills, in digitisation, in modern technology, that there is a curriculative reform that knows where and how, literally, we do not have sponges and chalks in school. Here's a statistical indication that the ceilings that have been falling for 40 years. Other indicators that are on the subject, we can set an example here, here's the environment you mentioned, the Ministry of the Environment. When we see the indicators, what's this about? So when I look at what Minister Coric is doing, instead of dealing with environmental protection and doing the basis of these statistical indicators because we are all calling for climate change today, stopping these bad climate change, instead of protecting our drinking waters, because the analyses also say that Croatia is one of the richest countries in the head of the population, in Europe we are, drinking water, which we achieve, not protecting the environment, but it is important that the minister killed, Coric, the court ruling, the Administrative Court of Justice in Split after the appointment of the director of NP Krka, although she had the criteria of appointment, the foundation of Djujic's proposal, which was in the Sibenik-Knin president of the HDZ, was named naturally the director of persons with two IDs, HDZ and HNS and not Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanovic, who has IDs, who has a defence card and who has one, means better scientific references. And not only that the chief inspectorate is being refuted but the minister, the minister is seeking the exception of the judge in the second procedure, after he broke one time, the inspection also said that the illegal appointment in Krka National Park is now seeking the exception of the judge through his own man, the representative from the ministry who was a member of the committee at the appointment, he sends the judge, he sends an exemption because the court is not implementing its own, that it is not in the process, is not guided by sound logic. So Minister Coric is burying the judiciary. We see that the judiciary is buried, statistics indicate that our judiciary has problems in unsolved cases. Minister Ćoric asked a few days ago for an exemption from the judge on the appointment of the director of national, illegal appointment, for the second time a process is being conducted, the director who has HDZ and HNS's card at the same time, Mr. Nela Slavica. He's burying the court, Minister. Well, immediate resolution. Where's Andrej Plenkovic and his courage? The immediate resolution of Minister Coric, who seeks an exception in court that the court is not guided by logic. Of course we're going to have a statistical indication that it's catastrophic and that people who are high-quality are going out. As for the economic part of the statistics. Since the government doesn't see it and since the government boasts of the data that economic growth and fact is, but what economic growth? 6% of GDP comes from abroad from our people, whom this government has made its own policies, regardless of the statistical indicators to which Mrs. A representative, our colleague Peric, before me. 6% of the GDP of our people who have been evicted to third countries policies as implemented in this case, the Sibenik-Knin County, where it was appointed to the director of a person with poor criteria, has no defence status, as others do, but it has a HDZ and HNS card and it is a key story. The important thing is that Dujic is down there saying that she's the bad guy and the river has to be her and it's over. Those two cards are more important, and that's a statistical indicator of why people move out. So we have to say from these statistical indicators are these county needs at all. We're now the state offices of the administration of all the people we've moved to the county. And we're even stronger, he says we're decentralisation, and you've got 20 Pharaohs who do their jobs the way they want them to, do what they want, hire what they want, just look at the appointment of a national park. Well Minister Coric, I don't know if he's ashamed. Instead of protecting the Krka River, Zrmanja, there are problems of unambiguous ecological, catastrophic, instead of dealing with this problem, to throw waste management, the best way to find out, not that chaos is both in Zagreb and down in Dalmatia, from Sinja transports this, from Vrgorac 100 km transports waste. So no statistical indicator, I believe you'll make good statistical indicators where we're going to align this law, but what kind of policy are we, colleagues, going to implement with these statistical indicators? Well, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. If this trend continues, we will soon have, not under 4 million people, but below 3 million people. Well, the result of this policy is that we've evicted people, like politics in Yugoslavia in the '60s, only then were only men, mostly, but families stayed, and now young people are leaving and there's no birth anymore, very little. The number of births is dropping. There's a drop in the number of kids in schools. Schools are collapsing. Now we only have tears, less and less in maternity homes, more and more on children, and more on bus stations, but parents, grandparents, as their people leave. So what are my statistical indicators? In agriculture, a statistical indicator? Here, I'm interested in statistical indicators, we've known for years that we've been miserable in watering our agricultural surfaces. What did we get out of those statistical indicators? Nothing. No one cares. You will do your statistical work, you will do us, but from these mathematical analyses, statistical indicators, policies must be conducted. We used to have 60, recently 10 years ago, 64 thousand O.P.G.s who were engaged in cattle farming, i.e. Muscular cows. Today we don't have four thousand people like that. We don't have four grand. So what kind of politics is that? Is it so that when you come to God, this is in my province of Cetina, the field of Sinai is not watered? Cetina, a clear river passes through the Sinjsko polje, we have the proximity of Split, we have the coast of Makarska, we have the Sibenik hinterland, we have the trogirska, we have the tourist lot, and the Sinjsko polje is not watered. And that in statistical indicators shows that we are catastrophic, and we have European funds, we boast. Agglomeration systems later, so I think what I'm talking about is statistical indicators that the Institute will do their job the way it works mathematically, but what does politics do? And then the prime minister comes in here and says Mr. Bulj, your ticks are that 6% of GDP is from abroad, and that's the main reason why it's growing, economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, and what's causing it? It's a cause, an emigration, targeted and planned, and now it's happening that we've rebalanced, that four years ago there's been, not so many thousands of foreign workers, there's now 100,000 foreign workers we're importing and now we're liberalizing that we can all go in however they want, and we've moved ours out. Essentially, from the Tokars, locksmiths, engineers, builders, except for the Free builders, I don't know if there's any Free builders here, maybe the Free builders can know it, it's not there, so I'm not going to ask him. Without... The big maester. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187047	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187048	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull. About, no, you're not to blame for what happened at the Most, and we know for ourselves, and I was with you. We could've worked things out that we were in the government and tried to fix it. Why did you come out? You had Dobrovic's environmental protection. Why didn't you know? How many of you are left? We can't just say it's no good, it's, it's got to be done and done. Let's think of water and godfathers, so if you can't work and you can't run, and we had a great chance when I was and we were together, there were 19-20 of us, so you're left at 5, 6, 7, I don't know how many of you there are today, so the system needs to know how to lay down, you need to know how to lead the people. I'm not going to say that everything is ideal for this government either, but gentlemen need to get to work and not talk, this is just a story we can tell. Here's an hour to talk and broadcast. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Croatian people... [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187049	...this response to the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187050	Thank you very much. Dear Muscle, if you had entered through the Most, you would have gone too far with HDZ, the SDSS, and now you're a token of Bandic's, I'm not. To stay alone I'm not that, I'm not even a party member, but I think MOST is the first political option and 12 people who said not to sell INA to strangers, no, we have a lot of legal initiatives and in a very short time we tried to do something and we were wrong, we probably are, but I'll never be anyone's chip, ever. I'm an ear on the MOST list, you've entered, you've been a master animal builder, a MOST sheepman, and then you're a master builder, but that's your right. But the fact is that, in fact, all the statistical indicators that Mr. Music is showing up here are devastating and you support such a government, you as a beast became a single realist, you entered from the living wall list. You're from the Living Wall and now you're a little nervous, but here comes Bandic, he knows how to do it. [[Intruder: No]] Maybe he's a good builder, too. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187051	Now, this proposal for the Law on Official Statistics will have a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, a respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187052	Here, I'm just going to repeat what I said earlier, respecting harmonisation and your intentions to bring statistics into line with European statistical standards, and that's normal to be harmonised. However, here I am not calling you and all that this law will produce, but the fact that the law which we are now talking about is essentially so far that the statistical indicators showed mathematically and the analysis showed that policies were catastrophic. So, if we're talking about demographics, I said that, if we're talking about agriculture, I said, just about the O.P.G.'s muse cow when I said how much was 64,000. How much do we import today? We are today importing over 3 billion food products, and we are missing with the growth of tourism, so we boast, which means that we are not creating additional value in agricultural examples, because if it is a distant example of my Sinj either irrelevant or, or Lika, or if it is near a tourist destination, so is it possible that we have to do the stimuli,... We have to import the tomatoes from Italy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The blue field isn't irrigated, we statistically know that it's a very small percentage of the irrigated fields. And what policies we run and then here we boast under these lights, and now we chair the council. The EU, an increase of 2, 3, 4, 5%, and if we hadn't evicted this Croat from this 2/3 of our youth, we wouldn't be in a banana. But in the long run, we're in a banana because we're importing labor who knows how and the carriages come while we're moving our people out. More, now we've liberalized, you're going to vote today on that law. 2016 was 1500, two, I don't know, a very small number of several thousand were foreign workers, this year 100,000, although they pronounce us like this only until half of 2019. By the 8th month, 11,000 workers from Serbia were, 22,000 from BiH and now it's growing rapidly, we moved people targeted, in the 1960s, trains were organised in Yugoslavia to go to Germany, those to whom they were parents in Germany, and now in my province it happened, so it happened, but so it was too difficult in these rural areas, but they remained mostly children, now the whole family is leaving. So when I look at that education, health care, so how much we have the mayor, the county, the Pharaohs, so when I look at that appointment, and now that I've seen, this morning when I saw that Minister Ćorić asked for an exemption from the judge in the event of appointment in the national park of a person with two IDs and HDZ and HNS at the expense of Mrs. Coric. Ljiljana Zmijanović, well, that's meaningful, so everyone will go. These statistical indicators must be those that say even in agriculture is so that we can do it in the economy, I don't think we're doing anything. We can discuss here now and statistical indicators are mathematics, ways and models that are the best quality. From these mathematical indicators, they extract analysis. Who's pulling the analysis? It's important that we pyroski do how economic growth is in the Republic of Croatia, it's important to do how curricular reform is being implemented, pills, this, that. I repeat, in the Brnazas, the castle. The suburbs of Sinj the other day was so the roof in the classroom, ceiling, ceiling, pardon, ceiling fell. Thank God it wasn't a drawer, we're missing reform, they don't have sponges to wipe the board and chalk, so it's in rural areas. Instead of based on statistical indicators, we say no children have the possibility of kindergartens, how many children can't be between 3 and 6 years old, which is our obligation since 2000. from Barcelona, the European Council, when the conclusion was reached, that 90% of children have the possibility of kindergartens. So we have a municipality of 30% in local self-government that doesn't have the possibility of having one child in rural areas of kindergarten. Who's gonna stay here? Statistical indicators that, but changing policies, directing them according to these statistical indicators, if we have those indicators as dead letters on paper and if we're going to discuss and we're going to tell each other this, what I'm calling on those who are strategically thinking, those who have taken over the leadership of the state to base statistical indicators will see where the problems are, and the problems are huge, and the solution is precisely in those indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187053	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a break by 12 hours when there's going to be a vote on those points that have been discussed so far. It's 10.47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187054	Final proposal of the Law on official statistics, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 838. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the GLAS Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us the Secretary of State Katica Prpic, please. We're going to the first amendment, it's the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187055	The President-in-Office and the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs, all amendments to the HS Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187056	Thank you. So all three are accepted and become an integral part of the law. We are going to the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187057	All amendments of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187058	And they become also an integral part of the bill's proposal and we are now going to the amendment of the GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187059	The proposed amendment is not accepted with the explanation State Geodetic Administration is the owner of administrative data sources used by the State Statistics Office in the process of producing official statistics and in the context of the implementation of certain statistical activities and the development of statistical areas of professional cooperation between the State Geodetic Administration and the State Statistics Office intensively and daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187060	Here's your obvious, esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187061	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. I am asking for a vote on this amendment is, in fact, the fact that this amendment proposes that the State Geodetic Authority participates actively as well as all other ministries listed in the said provision of the law, therefore this argument does not stand at all because it would then also be for all other ministries because the national statistics therefore participate in daily and with other ministries. Well, according to that criterion, there should be no other ministry in the competent authority. So, the explanation absolutely does not stand and ask for a vote on this amendment because we think that our statistics would be more effective and better it would certainly be better if there were also a representative of the State Geodetic Authority in the competent body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-21-0.u187062	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes, so we're going to vote on the final draft of the Official Statistics Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 104 votes for and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Official Statistics Act.
