ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3715	The next club of representatives is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3716	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Today, on behalf of the Most Club, I will talk about the most important and vital topic of life that concerns all of our citizens. And that, of course, is the beginning of the school year. I apologize in advance and regret that I am only talking about it now, but the speech about it was not possible before because only recently came out the latest, even before yesterday, recommendations from the competent ministry, and then of course, they should have been analysed and now we are coming up with a paradoxic situation to talk about what needs to be done at the moment when school is already starting. In this respect, the first criticism towards the ministry is a clue to the fact that the recommendations themselves speak about the accession to the revision, adaptation and addition of these guidelines and the recommendations on the basis of previous experience. And what did it look like before? Why has this experience that occurred during the pandemic not already been taken into account in new recommendations? The second criticism goes to this, on the grounds that schools are said to have to organise preparations for implementing the mixed model and teaching at a distance, and for them they did not have enough time, given when the recommendations came out. But despite criticism, we first welcome the fact that the minister insisted that the school actually goes live, because we believe, on the trail of what is said and in Britain and their recommendations, on the trail of what scientific magazines like Lancet point out, that it is crucial for children to really be in school benches. Besides criticism, we'll be constructive. So we have carefully read all the recommendations and guidelines from the competent ministry and HZZO, and I will now say concretely what we believe should be improved so that this teaching works as best as possible. The first thing that concerns is that for students who are absent from school because Covid are positive, who are in self-insulation, teaching is organized as a distance teaching. We don't think that's a good model. In fact, it would assume that teaching will have to be kept at a distance almost all the time because it will always be found probably, one student who will be positive. It will burden our teachers too much. Namely, on the trail of what you've never... We support that teachers are paid extra, but not everything in schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Teachers can't work twice as hard. So what we specifically suggest is that all absences for up to 2 weeks are treated as normal absences from the disease and do not require additional access to online follow-up. Only at a time when more than half the class is unable to participate, then the whole class should be moved to a distance. Secondly, a distance of 2 metres is required in secondary schools, unlike the distance of 1.5 m that is in primary schools. Since high school students are a little more serious and are able to take epidemiological recommendations more seriously, we recommend that this gap, as crucial as it is for more normal teaching, be allowed 1.5 m with respect to epidemiological recommendations and secondary schools. Thirdly, it is recommended to perform a block of hours, two hours or three hours due to epidemiological measures. We consider this a very bad recommendation because such a form of teaching does not allow enough adoption of new material because of the attention students are able to provide and will create for those who will have a two-hour or three-hour course compared to those who will have common models, large differences between learned materials. So we think that it is enough to respect the gap between teachers and students and that teaching should be maintained in as normal a model as possible, and two-hours and three-hours for the adoption of teaching material and inequality should be avoided. Furthermore, what we want to point out is the basic and major public health problem in Croatia, which is the problem of obesity. In fact, almost every 5th child in Croatia threatened. This problem during this pandemic, which is believed to be worrying by many parents, will be potentiating. It will be potent because the conduct of the electoral teaching will not take place. And that includes, given the epidemiological recommendations, it's not possible to mix class, almost all sports at school. Moreover, this will create a major inequality between those who can club each other to participate in sports, unlike those who have taken advantage of the possibility within schools. The poorer children will be in an invisible position, which is a form of discrimination, and also points to the double criteria that we have in public health according to school action and club action. Also, extracurricular activities aren't just what needs to be possible, they're crucial because they're the reason students love school and that drive their creativity. What I'm going to say is that students, that professors are not here to carry out epidemiological measures and that students cannot isolate themselves, as these measures say, for the first time when they sneeze, if the professor notices it, but we need to create an environment that will not treat them as aliens and create additional traumas. but school will be a place, if we've decided to teach, then where it can really happen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3717	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stipo Mlinarić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3734	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. While politicians are making public and passionate peace with Knin, young people are beating themselves up more publicly and passionately in Vukovar. The usual celebration of Victory Day and Homeland Thanksgiving and Croatian defenders this year are HDZ which was founded by Dr. F. Tudjman and the SDSS founded by war crimes Mr. Hadzic turned into a memorial with the aim of a great reconciliation between Serbs and Croats. We all know that Plenkovic and Pupovac are doing this only for personal interest, Plenkovic, in order to remain prime minister and Pupovac, to continue to hold the position and the privileges attached to it. The real problems are being silenced, no one in this reconciliation has spoken a word about the issue of separate education most young Croats and Serbs. And if they were to put Croatian and Serbian children under the Croatian programme, place them in the same class and classroom, which would not be so easy, but it would be very useful, with occasional conflicts among children, I believe that they would be lower intensity than thoughts, development and childhood friendships, mutual learning, playing and going to birthdays. Some of them would surely remain and lasting friendships as we witnessed during the Homeland War as the most drastic example of all. If Plenkovic and Pupovac had made peace, they would have done this first or worked on this. But this serious problem, as well as any other problem, can only be solved by one who truly understands it and wants to solve it. Unfortunately, mentioning two of this only makes for a convenient show and a bad show. That's what I'm saying because the current government with its partner and this kind of policy is never going to open or solve this burning issue. It is a tragedy that young Serbs, Croatian citizens, know Croatia, their homeland to the trade chain in Osijek where parents occasionally take them shopping. And on school trips and regular school trips, they go exclusively to Serbia and Serbia. Perhaps there is also a practical reason for this because Serbia's excursions are much cheaper under the exception of economic justification and savings are always chosen destinations in Serbia. That is why Serbian children in Vukovar and the surrounding area are growing up without getting to know their Croatia beyond the mentioned shopping centre in Osijek. If the werewolves, Serbs and Croats listened to lectures together, studied together and copied each other and in joint sports and free activities learn which one of them is a good doorman, which one of them is a good attacker or a cleaner or in basketball, who is a player, who is a winger and who is a center, they would spend a lot of energy on each other, less on hate and conflict, and like this when everything they know about each other, that one of the Croats and the other Serbians and that time stood in the slaughter on the Ovcara, which is something else in their mind than being passionately beaten, even when they are calmed by politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3735	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Mako Kuzmanic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3763	Thank you very much, President. Dear fellow MPs, what I want to refer to with this speech is the unkind event that took place in the city where I come from, and this is in the Castles where a few days ago there was the abuse of a young man by a few other young people. I'm sorry to say that I regret both the victim and the bully in this case because it's not the young people's fault, young people only do what they see. And what they see around them is not good, and we all need to ask ourselves what direction this society is headed. Violence and crime in Croatia have become socially acceptable for many years and as long as we close our eyes before this will happen. In this particular case, it turns out that Kaštela is a city case, which is not true because, according to all the statistics, that's not the case. Kaštela had this accident that someone had recorded the case, so when he went public, we all stopped to wonder about it, and no one wondered why it was happening like that. Why do these young people around them every day see and see injustice? The injustice that the state their births created and their grandfathers built, the social property that was created for years is sold and large, so I will call them, those who call themselves great Croats, go unpunished. Some politicians abuse their own families means doing domestic violence, threatening, avoiding prison sentences and what I just said in the replica of my colleague Bakic, making fun of the Croatian judiciary because they have dual citizenships so they can laugh across the border here, young people can only see, so hear in Croatia the only thing that gets mixed up is crime. That's what we have to work on, that's what we have to do, that we have to be aware of, and we have to show young people that it's not socially responsible behavior. Unfortunately, the castles still have this accident that one of the major cities that has a large population growth, and since such problems except by example can be solved only by preventing or rehabilitating in terms of prevention, I think of the police that has so far, and still in this case this job has done perfectly and in due course not be able to take away the impression that the ministry has not yet made the formation of police stations in our area so that in certain places such as the Imot region and some other places where we have a large population eviction, in Kaštela we have a large inflow of the population, so the city has grown by some 15,000 inhabitants in the last 20 years, so we definitely need more employees and people to be more adequately paid, and unfortunately, you know how it is going, right now or the first reading of the Law on the execution of prison punishment. People who go to rehab often become re-advisers, which means that this system doesn't work very well. It functions as a kind of schooling for those who are involved in crime, so those who go to juvenile correction centres afterwards meet some of their peers around, when they come out stealing vehicles, visit them, etc., most of our system needs to be thoroughly and radically changed. And our judiciary is a special cancer, a cancer of our society's wounds, and unless we get serious about it, I don't think it'll be a problem that Kaštela will be a city case, but unfortunately Croatia will remain a city case. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3764	Thank you very much. With this done today's work, we will continue to work on Wednesday 9 September at 9:30 and the first point will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Noise Protection, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 14. Have a nice afternoon and a weekend. Session interrupted at 11:51 p.m. As announced earlier today, we would now be taking the stand of representatives' clubs, so first on behalf of the Green-left bloc's representative, Katarina Peovic, the respected representative, will speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3801	Good afternoon, everyone. I'll talk about the Sisak Refinery whose workers came to us as well as many others to warn us with October 1st this year 250 people will be fired. That's not all, so workers are threatened, intimidated, unacceptably reduced workers' rights, and even more so in the middle of a pandemic of the coronary virus as if it itself wasn't enough, workers were shamed by the addition to a collective contract to reduce their rights and actually cut their salaries in half. After the workers and us both delivered a perfectly correct document, so the authentic document with the names of 250 workers who were going to be fired on October 1st, which was actually the biggest problem of this administration, not that the workers would get fired but as they say, the names of those who would actually get fired were on the paper that was published. The haughtiness of the administration can only be made possible by the silence of the workers, so the administration is working hard for the workers to be intimidated by the finding of the guilty, and threatens those to whom they have provided the data as if they were criminals. Workers are also trying to avoid the old recipe by promising some high severances, while at the same time sending embarrassing notices to the administration that psychological assistance is for them, here in this document, which says that psychological assistance is needed by colleagues and colleagues, not because workers from October 1st will be left without basic material conditions for life, but because their names are published on these papers authentic, hence documents that they will be fired. Fortunately some workers do not agree to threats, blackmails and lies and realize that the only way to save themselves, their jobs but ultimately all of us from shutting down the rest of the industry, we can freely say the rest of the industry, a loud and uncompromising labour struggle. The INA will, of course, say that there is no other way, that reduced traffic requires so-called. Is restructuring but should be warned that INA pays the dividend this year despite losses that justify cancellations, that Hungary's MOL will be paid more than 300 million kunas, that last year INA had a profit of 650 million kuna a year ago, 1.3 billion kuna, etc. Winning and paying dividends is not someone's right and it certainly is not more important than the right of workers to meet the material conditions for living that will be threatened by layoffs. It is clear to all that this issue is also greater than 250 workers who will be fired and that from the perspective of MOL it is legitimate business interest and priority to actually bring Croatian oil to Hungary and to put out Croatian refineries and it is absolutely clear to all that our government as well as previous governments helps. Should we all lose our jobs and move away from Croatia or from the workers, so that we can relocate the ruling to the benefit? Yesterday we talked about quotas, in this case, quotas won't be necessary. So, ruling from SDP to HDZ, MOL is helping, everything else is a public play. And Plenkovic's address that the refinery will not be shut down, that it will protect the interests of Croatian workers in INA and Coric's justification where it is quite clear that it has made it possible to send Croatian oil to Hungary, that technical conditions have already been met in 2018 and Maric's solution to buy INA shares although it has been proven that INA sales have been criminal. It is therefore more acceptable for the ruling to legitimise criminal sales of therefore INA than to ask the question of nationalisation. When you say nationalization, they accuse you of bettervism. For this reason, the workers of the Sisak refinery who raised their voice, We are supporting and we are telling the ruling INA belongs to workers, not HDZ and Hungarian capital. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3823	The next club of representatives is the party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. She's gone, so she's losing her right to speak, and then the next one's gonna be the IDS MPs' club on behalf of whom she's going to speak the respected representative Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3824	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. A new school year starts next week. It will be a start with a lot of uncertainty, both for students and their parents and for teachers, or teachers and other school staff. Many concerned school workers, as well as parents, came to us from the field. After talking to them, it is impossible to take the impression that the preparation and organisation of the new school year in these specific and very challenging epidemiological conditions is slightly casual and that it has been approached by the principle of transferring responsibility to others in this case primarily to the school itself. It is no secret that education or education in Croatia has been neglected for a long time but the fact remains that this year as well as last year's schooling is under unsustainable pressure which is now also further potentiated by new circumstances which hand-to-heart and are not so new since they have been part of our daily life for more than half a year and the start of this new school year could be better prepared and organised earlier. The instructions that schools have received in many cases are actually just recommendations. Many of these measures are often inconclusive, especially in school institutions that simply do not have the necessary spatial capacity and to ensure the necessary space or financial opportunities to implement all measures. Also a great burden will fall again on the back of teachers who will have to prepare a classic live teaching but also on the line teaching which clearly requires quite an additional engagement. Teachers' duties and the structure of their working hours remained a major problem, and in a particularly demanding situation are employees who work in several schools, who did not have a number. I can only conclude that in the IDS, we believe that the inadequate and untimely preparation for the start of the new school year would leave too much gray space that would inevitably lead to complications in the implementation of the measures, and thus also the school year. It is clear, therefore, that Croatian schools are not prepared for the start of a new school year or for that line of teaching. We also believe that curricula itself should be adapted to all these extraordinary conditions so that, with all the challenges and difficulties of teaching can take place and implemented in a planned manner. Otherwise, the ministry will return to school as a boomerang. Schools won't or should be responsible for a possible case of infection that no one of course wants, but in a situation like this is potentially hanging over their heads all the time. In this case, it will be solely the state or the competent ministry that was not able to manage on time and in the context of real opportunities and resources on the ground to organise a school year. And in the end, if things work as much as they do, and I'm confident that the most credit for it will be for the education staff and the staff of the schools who know which way to put their backs, make extra efforts and compensate for the failures of their ministry. So I want a lot of health and success in the new school year, which is unfortunately not going to be easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3825	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the national minority on behalf of whom the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3833	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This summer, I was embarrassed by one news story about our national television, and as far as I could see, not just me, but our many citizens. It's a show, but it's not about any show, it's about a show that's been shown countless times on HRT, it's been an unmistakable part of our country's promotion, it's about, of course, the "Beautiful Ours" show, which was first broadcast on November 8, 1995 on the first HTV programme at 8:00 in the House of Sports in Zagreb. The HRT had already shown its intention to eliminate "Beautiful Ours" and I was under the impression that the pandemic of the coronary virus was a good excuse for that. The notice that came from the HRT on the cancellation of the show was a dwarve. It was just that "Because we are currently in the root crisis, we are not sure that all the conditions for continuing to film with "Beautiful Ours", with respect to epidemiological recommendations," I must admit that it was not only me, but my family, especially my wife, who was one of the most faithful viewers and a fun but useful show that has long been familiar with the beauty of our country and many who have not been able to do so, allowed at least on television to see parts of their country that have never seen in reality. It is often for people who live in the places where the show hosted it was an event of the year or we can even say without exaggeration, and the event of the decade. The quality evidence was filled with halls and the highest ratings on the HRT programme. from all of this, it is clear that a lot of love, effort and emotion have been invested in “Beautiful Ours” and the result of that was the preservation of traditional culture. It is primarily a folklore performance, featuring famous and less famous musicians, fun and folklore orientations, locally known musicians and KUDs. Traditional songs and dances are performed as well as contemporary popular songs. One of its works shows reconstructions and representations of folk customs, the food of certain parts and everything else that makes the identity of a particular area. Since its beginning, a 96-minute programme has been broadcast, or 1,000-600 hours. If those figures had changed in days, it would have been 64 days. As many as 185,000 performers performed 25 000 songs and 2500 choreographies of folklore. There were over a million and a half people on public shows. For over a quarter of a century, this show has been launched not only to Croatia but also to countries in our environment, Europe and other continents. Among other things, emissions from BiH, Slovenia, Serbia, C. Gore, Hungary, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Australia and Canada were broadcast. Its greatest value was the diversity that introduced people from Dalmatia to Slavonic or Istrian customs, people from Međimurje to the customs of Banovina or Baranja and so on. It has enabled many Croatian citizens to pass all over Croatia from their chair, to learn about the tradition of all parts of our so diverse country. It enables them to see and hear costumes, traditional dances, customs and songs, and other things that make the cultural identity of one end a nice one. It showed not only the customs and traditions of the Croatian people but also the national minorities, our country and so Roma that I am particularly pleased and that I can only thank the people who have worked to create this show through this long period of years. I don't think I'm going to go too far if I say that "beautifully ours" is one of the reasons that UNESCO has been introduced into the register of protected immaterial cultural heritage from the Republic of Croatia. There's practically no person on our estradi no matter... which has not appeared on the show, in addition, for years it has been the most visible show among Croatian emigrants both in Europe and in the overseas countries when visiting outside Croatia, the show has its own version called "The Bridges of Culture" whose contribution has been to normalising relations in these areas and to getting to know each other better about people and culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u3834	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5048	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I thank the media representatives. We're going back to work. - Proposed by the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 11; After that, if we're done 13 hours ago, I suggest we leave immediately with the club's position, or independent representatives, so we don't wait until 13 o'clock. We'll see what kind of dynamics will be, there's a decent number of people reported, but I'm not sure it'll last until 13, so please tell your colleagues who will speak on behalf of the clubs in a free debate to be ready maybe 13 hours ago. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, so I would now ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is respected Ivan Malenica, Minister of Justice and Administration. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5049	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I thank you for the opportunity to present today's Proposal of the Penal Code. First, I would refer to the situation in the prison system, and I can point out that it's also good. Thus far, the spread of the Covida-19 epidemic in criminal bodies has been prevented by the timely action and respect of all epidemiological measures. Two people deprived of freedoms that were positive for Covid-19 in the previous period did not receive the listed disease in the prison system or transferred it to persons deprived of liberty. I would also like to refer to the recent escape of an investigative prisoner in front of the County Court in Split and thank you for your good cooperation with the responsible services of the MUP. I would like to point out that in the Croatian prison system there are a relatively small number of incidents, given that over 12 thousand of all categories of persons deprived of liberty pass through the same year. But that is why it is necessary to continue to work on further professionalisation and strengthening the competences of prison system officials and to edit and modernise all processes in detail. It is particularly important to regulate the possibility of introducing new technologies into the prison system, such as video call, videolink and so on, so that the possibility of incident situations can be reduced to as little as possible. Today, I am pleased to present today a new proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence. This proposal of the Prison Penal Code achieves compliance with a series of laws. Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Act, Infringement Act, Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, Law on Civil Servants, Law on Courts, the Law on Health Protection, the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons in connection with the processing of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating or persecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. This bill follows the form of a valid law on the execution of a prison sentence. Given that it follows a logical sequence in the process of executing the prison sentence and retains all those provisions that have proved to be a quality solution in long-term practice to ensure the execution of the prison sentence with maximum respect for human dignity. The provisions of the bill are more precise; for example, the concept of prisoners, i.e. persons deprived of liberty, is more precisely defined, and a legal person is introduced to further modernise the prison system. In terms of improving the conditions for the execution of prisons and prisons of investigation and the exercise of the rights of prisoners and investigators, the bill provides for the possibility of introducing and using new technologies in the prison system. So, for example, it is possible for prisoners to make contact with the outside world through audio and videoconferencing. So prisoners of strangers whose family is far away can make contact with them in that way. The bill also improves the conditions for the execution of prisons and prisons of investigation. For example, this law, this bill found the activity of the Prison Hospital in Zagreb as a penitentiary with the status of a health care institution that performs the health care activity of persons deprived of liberty and the activities of the Department of Health Protection of Penalties, i.e. prisons that provide health care for persons deprived of liberty, which will enable the provision of more spot and adequate healthcare to prisoners and investigators, as well as easier communication of the prison system and public health systems. A new possibility of organisational discharge is then introduced for the re-retracted closed conditions for the execution of prison sentences, and thus the execution of an investigative prison and a rapid organisational response to exceptional situations in cases such as, for example, redundancy, e.g. The consequences of the migrant crises, etc. Also, this bill provides for the possibility for persons convicted in a criminal proceedings to be transferred from prison where they execute a sentence in closed stricter conditions, to the penitentiary for the execution of fines under milder conditions, which also contributes to the discharging of the pre-recipated closed conditions. With full understanding of the part of the negative perception of the public in the current case-law, the relatively long body of the procedure between the power of judgment and the reference to the execution of a prison sentence, I find it essential to note that this bill significantly speeds up the procedure of referencing convicts to the detention of prisons through precisely prescribed deadlines and actions which have a hasty character and prevents possible abuse of delivery provisions to avoid and execute prison sentences. However, I also find it important to note that it was necessary to continue to maintain the legal possibility of delaying the execution of a sentence decided by the court in any particular case in precisely prescribed situations because it is necessary to ensure the execution of the sentence of imprisonment, but at the same time it is necessary to guarantee respect for human dignity. I also find it important to point out that in the event of a lawsuit for e.g. The death of a person deprived of liberty can also be financially responsible, and we all pay as taxpayers. It is therefore necessary to ensure the responsible conduct of all participants in the process, and in any case in the prison system, it is necessary to ensure the professional conditions of work without day-to-day sensationalism, and aimed at the main objective, which is humane treatment and respect for the dignity of the person who is located in support of the prison sentence and its training for life on the loose. In addition to provisions on persons deprived of freedom in a separate part of the law, provisions are more precisely defined in relation to the employees of the penitentiary and prisons and the prison system. Despite the general financial consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic, we have found ways to improve at least part of the right of employees to contribute to satisfaction among employees, but we are also seeking and encouraging further professionalisation with greater responsibility. In the course of lawmaking, special attention should also be given to the latest practice in the system of enforcement of prisons at international level through the application of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Revised Standard Minimum Rules of the UN on the Treatment of Prisoners, etc. Mandela's rules, revised European prison rules, decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, recommendations and warnings of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, the National Prevention Mechanism, as well as the Public Advocate. Finally, this proposal provides for the equal position of all categories of prisoners in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, on certain rights and their equalisation with other citizens, raises the level of security of penitentiary and prisons, and in the long run is aimed at reducing the costs of execution of prison sentences. We consider this proposal to be of quality, to monitor the current situation, and to be the basis for further modernisation of the prison system, and to contribute to strengthening the general state of security. We propose this bill and thank you in advance for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5050	I want you to stay here, Minister, because we're going to have replicas here. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5051	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I welcome all your efforts to treat the prisoners more humanely, that's certainly one good thing. However, he would refer to this recent case in Split because you mentioned and apologized that it had happened. It's about a person who's been charged with a very serious crime and I'm interested, I think you're obliged to say something more about how it's possible for such a person to escape in the middle of the day and the search takes eight hours, thank God it didn't happen, nothing bad happened in that period, he was caught. However, a little more explanations about the circumstances of the case, how is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5052	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5053	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking the question. As I said yesterday and firstly apologized and expressed regret for this unkind event and apologized to the citizens of the city of Split who felt uncomfortable due to this event and thanked the MUP. Namely, according to the regulations governing proceedings, which are the Regulation on how to implement the insurance of persons in prisons and penitentiary facilities and how to apply the means of coercion, but also by this law, currently in force by law, a certain security assessment shall be carried out for each prisoner during the exercise procedure and a specific order shall be drawn up which clearly provides for the conditions under which the prisoner is to be executed in certain judicial bodies. So what happened in this particular case will therefore determine the investigation that is currently being conducted. So the officers involved were, the judicial officers involved in this case they were manifested, and they are still currently in the service until the procedure is carried out. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5054	Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5055	Dear Ministers, you have properly and relatively comprehensively informed us here in the proposal and assessment of the situation in our criminal sanctions enforcement system, so among other things, you mentioned here that there are currently 3500 persons deprived of freedoms of different projections, of which 2200 prisoners, 1200 in a prison of investigation, 100 in a misdemeanor. Now, it would be good if we found out, it's very important information, I don't know if you have it now, but it would certainly be good to let us know, the second time you wrote about the situation with re-advism of these, how many of those prisoners are on the return, what return, maybe criminally to see how effective we really are. So, please let us know, you have it, it's no problem, but to let us know how much we have The rectivist? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5056	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5057	Well, Your Honor, I thank you for asking, at this point, we don't have that information, but we'll get you that information as soon as we get it, so here I hope these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5058	Third replica, dear fellow Kajtazi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5059	I wanted to thank you for granting a visit to the prisoners from prison, but also because of the crown itself and we were able to realize it. I also wanted to thank you for the UNICEF projector, a video that is precisely with children and what interests me in how the implementation goes and what the figures are realized and what reactions are between children and prisoners. What I am particularly interested in is what mechanisms that did not exist in the current law you intend to ensure the equal position of all prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5060	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5061	Well, certainly the intensity of this law was the continuity of the current regulation to ensure the equal position of all prisoners, and I think it is presently in the prison system. There are some exceptions, some individual cases where, due to some objective circumstances, this cannot be achieved, but I also think that this legislative proposal, which when voted here in the Croatian Parliament, will also contribute to the creation of a further equal position of all prisoners in the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5062	And the last replica, the esteemed colleague of Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5063	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, it is certain that this bill improves the status of prisoners during the execution of the sentence, but it is also going to improve the working conditions of those working in the prison system. In this regard, I would point out that the condition for the stay of mothers who have been given birth in prison is improved in view of the possibility of prolonging the stay of children with them if they are at the end of the sentence and I commend it, but I am interested in how young people will be motivated to actually get to work in the prison system because how much knowledge I have of the age of judicial officers and people working in the prison system is towards the lower border, so I think it would be very important that we take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5064	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5065	Thank you, Your Honor, for having an objective problem with the age of employees in the prison system. In that sense, we also increased the age for the entry of trainees into prison, for the entry of trainees into the prison system. We've also had talks this week with representatives of the union of law enforcement officers. We have already been through this proposal, this bill has increased the amount of severances so that through these stimulating severances one part of the people will come out of the system, and I believe that through the increase of salaries and other benefits for employees in the prison system we will allow easier entry and greater interest in employment in that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5066	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we'll start discussing clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy. My colleague's not here, so he's losing his right to speak. Now it is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, dear colleague Zeljko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5067	... The law quite different the type of law than we had the chance to read yesterday from the Foreign Law. [[Specially enabled.]] I can certainly express respect and agreement with the efforts made by the promoter in particular in the section relating to the regulation of the rights and duties and status of our people who have been deprived of freedom and I believe that this is absolutely appropriate and absolutely consistent with all European prison rules, international conventions, our Constitution on relations and the status of persons deprived of liberty either in prisons or other criminal justice institutions in Croatia, and of course there is always room for improvement. One part of the improvement and we see in this proposal of yours that actually eliminates opportunities and actually improves the status of persons deprived of freedoms in part as it is common in other European countries to prevent the harmful, harmful effect that the state of Croatia is suffering because of any particular failures or certain non-standards so that we have lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights which, according to my information, are currently there to resolve at least 15. We have so far had several powers where the state of Croatia is named as a state that has not invested enough in protecting and those categories of convicts whatever anyone thinks of them. We have different opinions, our public is divided about it. We have those who feel that it should be extremely restrictive, extremely rigid, and clearly the standards are civilized and human such that rules must be respected according to that category of commanders, prisoners because it is simply a standard that we set with our Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Now, in that part of it needs to be improved, it needs to be disabled on, you know what these are possibilities, where it can be improved, they're just as clear as we see spatial conditions for prisoners. Unfortunately, I've been in prison for 66 days myself, and I know what it's like here at the Remetec research center, and I could tell you from personal experience about it. What's very bad and what's good, in this whole story, is best, the best part of our prison system is our judicial officers. These are people, these are good angels to whom you need Mr. Minister to pay a lot of attention and the Croatian public too. They perform extremely, extremely complex, difficult, stressful work and everything they require to improve their status, you simply have to grant them for the reason that every prisoner's time passes, he is there for a month, two, five, six years, a prison judicial officer there needs a working life in that circle closed or prison penitentiary and he must simply be protected. Both work-legal and statusal and all those privileges, conditionally stated benefits of police officers, authorized officials in the MUP system simply have to be repainted by automation and for our judicial officers. As far as the union is concerned, I'm not going to detail you now, you're familiar with this, I'm going to give you their comments after this speech, or attempts to protect it, it's a wide-ranging leprosy, they're not too extensive, but I think they're tough for this society and after all, the authorized official of the MUP already have these protected standards, working-law, so there's no reason to be anything like that, so before that, because these judicial officers are 1600. So they're the most extensive system, they're total employees in the prison system of about 2600 official deputies, and those who are just in the fire every day with prisoners. This is, in particular, not to say what kind of convicts and prisoners there are and therefore categorized systems, from closed, semi-closed, open, situation is extremely difficult. What I can say other than those general standards around hygienic, spatial, etc., what I said in the room where it's supposed to be spacious for four prisoners, we today or recently had six or even eight. It just has to be solved. People who deal with the system and suggest that anything can simply be done, and I see it, now allows it, to move to some other penitentiary, so it is not necessary that an investigative prison of someone who is necessarily in Remetinco, when such a department can be adapted to somewhere, in Lipovica, somewhere in some kind of penitentiary reorganized di will be less stress, less space, less traffic and what is, I see Minister Bošnjaković here, which is your obligation that you missed dear ministers and now MPs, and even your predecessor Orsat Miljanić, don't miss it, it's very little effort, very little money, but don't let innocent people get further stigmad, punish in a way, and even your predecessor are innocent families. When the family came to Remetinec, I had a chance, I said from personal experiences, many in the prison system, we must be all aware and today there are innocent people. And I'm one of the innocent legal, judicial, state-law,... I've been innocent for 66 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not easy to endure, you feel like you're buried alive in a grave. Now that you add that your family has no chance of coming in time and the way it takes to see you, from children, women or those closest to you, and what have you missed, Mr. Bosnakovic? So give me a room there, a waiting room, to be in human condition. You can come now that the space, when it's time to visit Remetec, put 2, 3 containers, it's a blowout, it's -19, 3 hours waiting for the child to see you. Three hours, two to three hours. My wife, too. Whatever people in there, the biggest killers they're gonna be, we're gonna convict them, each of them has their own attitude, but I'm saying, there are innocents. Possible 1, 2, 3, there's always someone innocent. We have to make as a society that families who aren't punished for it, not to be further punished and traumatized, these are life-long stress, make there a waiting room, suitable, not to wait, to blow over your legs and over your head for three hours, and you have to stand there in line. It's just a small step in some kind of, it's minimal investment, and it's going to make relatively big benefits. Also, there's a big step around this electronic bracelet, it's a good, conditional release of the judge, the execution you put into full function, it's extremely important, the discharge system. No accident, we have 1500 crimes on 100,000 inhabitants in Croatia, and for example, the Germans, the Germans have 7,000 crimes per 100,000. And on the other hand, we have 72 prisoners per 100,000, 79 per 100,000 inhabitants, and the Germans 72 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants. Something doesn't work in the probation system, in the execution system, so we need to adapt to discharging the system, to adopt a high... Resociation, whatever the purpose of punishing is to achieve the purpose of punishment, but in a way that is appropriate and individualized, that this Irish progressive system that has been in force with us since 1916 in Lepoglav, to be upgraded as elsewhere in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going down a middle road, we're not even American, extremely... Strong, retaliatory, we've had another power lately, which is already going to prevention, and we're not a Nordic type either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we go, we swim in the middle, we're looking for our model that's a pretty good basis for improvement. What's important in the end, make a new law for law enforcement officers because he has no place in this law. It cannot be placed at the same time [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Order of rights of prisoners and rights [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Sacic.]] Cops. [[/Intruder: A fellow Sacic. Time's up.]] You need to separate that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5068	I'm asking you to hold on to your time. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5069	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with an associate, here we are in the first reading of the Penal Code. This is a rare opportunity for a law to have two times the first reading, this first reading was in the last assembly session, today it's before us again in this session. I think this matter certainly deserves a new law because this law that has been in force since 1990, it has experienced 13 changes and it is quite certain that one codification of all these amendments is welcome, but all of these steps that are foreseen in this law are also welcome. Maybe I'm a little subjective because this proposal that's here was done at the time of my term and so there are certain things that we really insisted they get into it. What's the feature of our prison system is that it makes it a large number of people whether, already here, it's said that there are about 2,600 people who are an officer, which is a substitute, which is a judicial officer, but also 3,500 prisoners who are stationed in 21 institutions, so 7 penitentiary and 14 prisons, 2 educational institutions, a center for education, a center for diagnostics, a prison hospital, is really a big and huge system and it has a special place in the justice system and really needs professional, good and quality management. Certainly, the fact that at Covid's time we had no more serious problems in the prison system there were people who were in self-insulation, there were officials themselves and some few prisoners, but we didn't experience in that system any bigger so that I would say the situation where prison or penitentiary would be significantly burdened by it and it would require special measures. This stability of the system actually stemmed from the measures that were taken at the time of Covid, and that's a lot of restrictions, a lot of actually rights that couldn't be realised because it would lead to danger, they carry in themselves certain risks. And it seems to me that everyone had an understanding of both our prisoners and the judicial police and officials, that everyone had an understanding of these measures that had been introduced. This law really offers certain newspapers that should be big steps, and I think it is very important to further digitise the system, the introduction of electronic surveillance is very important. There has been talk of electronic surveillance for a long time, but I think now that the funds are secured from the Norwegian funds by some EUR 2 million which will lead to electronic surveillance. This electronic surveillance he will actually provide the most I would say relaxations in those parole segments where actually when a man gets a decision on parole he will be electronically monitored not to enter some red zone and that he does not have to return it. He would also make a huge contribution to the system of investigation, so what we have inmates, a good deal of it could actually be under house arrest and could be monitored through that electronic surveillance. This will not be enough just to change this law, it will also need to change the Criminal Procedure Act, which is actually the parent law for the area of investigation. What is said here about these modern technologies they are already in practice because we have and we have a pilot project of communication of children with parents who are in the prison system whether their father, whether their mother, they were able to realize, enough of it and realized through video conferences with video characters, that they do not have to travel, that they do not really have to have all the costs of times and all that, but they have achieved with their parents and in this way contacts and a large number of such cases have been recorded. Also, where prisoners are obliged to give testimony about the court, related to the Supreme Court, to appeal proceedings, we also have the opportunity and it is applied again with video link and video conference so there is no need to actually drive them, drive them and do such things. And that's enough on the scene, now it's regulated, now it's actually this law pretty clearly, clearly this one said what I think is a big step. However, what I must say is, the law itself and all these improvements that he brings will not solve the matter but will actually be needed here and will continue further infrastructure investments, of course there will be this need to invest in the funds of modern technologies. All records of course need to be kept in electronic form and they must actually be made available at any time by the authorities that need that data. I think it should be discussed, so Croatia has already said there are 21 things in the penitentiary, which prison. There is a large range, 3 are the largest Lepoglava, Remetinec and Glina, and here the others we have really some that are completely this small, which are this by number of prisoners who take care of really this small and should actually perhaps see a possible merger for better and rational use and space and people who work there. You need to see that, but it's actually a matter of fact politics that can be done within the framework, and within this law. As far as the prison system is concerned, it's really an important segment and it's been enhanced surveillance, we have in the prison system present and civil society associations actually watching how it's done. We have here every year a report by the attorney general who specifically refers to the work of the prison system. We have here a report at the assembly once a year that the Government of the Republic of Croatia also submits on the functioning of the prison system. Of course, those things that happen and that are most disturbing to the public are deaths in the prison system, and we have to be clear that there are a few dozen in the last few years, and that's the consequence that people who have diseases are entering the prison system, who are sick, and so sometimes this disease is escalating, that there is a fatal event. It is therefore very important that this change be made to make the prison hospital part of the health system and that it may achieve one better synergy with all the members of the prison system. What fellow Sacic said about contacts and about family visits to prisoners is extremely important and how much I know about improving these conditions is done. I have personally been in some penitentiary and prisons where there are very good conditions for such contacts and it is clear that it should work to make it look better, but it should work to be better and conditions in all these penitentiary facilities and prisons, because there is also a large range of some modern spaces that are, for example, at a high level to some that are quite bad. Anyway, we have capacity for 3,900 prisoners, and let's say the average of some kind in the last few years is about 3,500, so rational use of space gives these things some way and reconciles. I must therefore look back and say that the work and probation systems related to the penal system are extremely important and that is where I would like to say that Croatia has made huge steps. We have 14 areas of probation seem to me, and I think it's impossible at all now that court proceedings and investigative and criminal proceedings are impossible to imagine them without the functioning and participation of the probationary system. That is why it is necessary to work on this, to work clearly on the education of personnel who are inside the prison system and I am pleased to hear that the talks with the unions have been made and to analyse everything that unions require to enter the law, clearly making sure that they have the status of officials and that there is a certain general law regarding officials in the Republic of Croatia. So, the HDZ final club will, of course, support this law in the first reading, with once again being noted, it should continue continuously with all the measures that bring improvements, which bring better conditions which I think are now significantly better than when I remember ten years ago when it was known in the prison system to be 5,500 prisoners, which is still more important than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5070	Let's move on, now it's HSLS and Reformists' and respected counterpart Darko Klasic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5071	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers with associates. I actually wanted to talk here about two topics, but I see that fellow Sacic has mentioned the importance of the people who work in this system and I would still mention, let's keep the most of these people because they are the backbone of the system, let's not save in the wrong places. And then I'll just look back at what maybe I'm coming from the health system and where in this law I'm pleasantly surprised with what he's offering. What I would refer to in the proposal for this law, and what has not been well resolved so far has been the harmonisation and provision of health protection of persons deprived of freedoms in accordance with the standards of the new Health Protection Act in the Republic of Croatia, which allows the same standard of health care as all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The law also found the operation of a prison hospital in Zagreb as a penitentiary with the status of a medical institution performing the health care activity. I would point out that with regard to the health care of prisoners, a new law in the execution of prison sentences brings significant improvements to what is extremely important now in the time of this virus COVID-19 and in the prison system. There is a definition of the organisation and content of the health care of prisoners at the primary and secondary level within the health system, which has not been well defined so far. Then we have prison regulation of mechanisms for easier access to services by the office of selected doctors of family medicine where there has been... We've had quite a lot of problems with that, there's both the creation of legal and sublegal conditions for the organisation of the work of a prison hospital and health care departments in accordance with the standards of the public health system. By creating a prerequisite for the inclusion of a prison hospital and health care departments in the CZIH system, i.e. The central health information system of the Republic of Croatia, as you know other institutions of the state have had problems with this, and from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Defence, here, this is significantly improving. I think that this is a good way to go, thus facilitating and speeding up the creation of a health care service for prisoners under the same conditions as other citizens, which has not been well and effectively regulated so far. I therefore welcome these changes in the law that have led to a significant reduction in the level of Stigmatisation of persons deprived of freedoms in the exercise of the right to health care, which is one of the basic conditions for humane accession to the service of prison sentence in the Republic of Croatia and respect for all the stand-bys in the world. Here's a short while from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5072	Now it's the Green-Left Block's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Willy Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5073	Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In this comment on the proposed law on the execution of prison sentences at first, I intend to separate two important directions. One direction we have seen to a large extent so far and I can talk about it from my own experience and experience of my colleagues and colleagues who have been working for years on rehabilitation of prisoners by penitentiary and prisons who have experience working together with prisoners and theatre performances and events, and in that sense I want to say that there are two directions. One direction is that however, respecting continues, unfortunately, the culture of violence in the penitentiary. Despite all these principles and good directions, the culture of violence still prevails, and real rehabilitation, the real resociation that we see is more than the education offered or working therapy offered to prisoners, schooling or demarcation, will be discussed by my colleague Bakic in an individual debate. So we think of the prison system as a real space and time that we devote to individuals who have lost the trust of the community because they have violated social agreements. But our attitude towards them certainly isn't to declare them, I don't think that or that the former minister said something in that direction, though. However, I mean, you yourself mentioned examples of these penitentiary and prisons that are in poor condition, that should certainly be said with that data, that there are 3900 places of capacity, we know that 4m2 and 10m3 spaces are expected, but that is very rare. Now we must also say that, in prisons, the conditions of filling are very rarely less than 100%, in 6 prisons it was over 120%, and the most difficult situation is in prisons in Karlovac, 175% in Osijek 174%, in Požega 167%. The source of this data is a report by the attorney general for 2019. So, the general interest is that in such an approach we encourage individuals in society who are on the way to avert, that exactly the rehabilitation programs and here I stress my colleagues who are just doing artistic work, along with everything that people are learning, this one that has working therapy, what they do with exercise, sports activities, however, that's important. However, it has been shown that these workshops of theatre, but not only theatre, literary, visual, music, are very much complementing their need for purpose and purpose so that it does not just turn into a monotony of the passages of the day that these people are still forced to spend with individuals among them, not all of them are such extreme bullies. However, it's these thugs who manage to impose such a culture so that you have no choice but to really follow, not as in extreme situations in American movies, but I personally have experience, we performed a show in Leprechaun and I personally have experience in prison for minors in Turopolje. However, in this area Mario Kovac with the Schmrc Theatre worked numerous, numerous plays, then Stojan Matavulj worked Shakespeare in, in Lepoglav and about it was filmed, Ivo Yuka made a fantastic documentary about the production of the show in, in prison. Now after that, I'd like to say something about, uh, the health care of the prisoners. Namely, inmates, I don't know which one of you has this experience or someone complained to him, but prisoners can't get a chance by themselves when they report to a doctor because of those who abuse it, I allow, and so that this thing actually comes down to the fact that a prison officer, a guard, has to assess how sick he really is, and based on his appearance or behavior, he concludes whether they are physically or mentally ill, and the rest of those who appear to be being examined don't have to be admitted. Then on visits to the prisoner, the prisoner has the right to visit family members twice a month and a holiday for at least one hour. Here we welcome of course this opportunity now again audio, I think again, by new, audio video conference with the family, especially with children, but we want to believe that this number of video conferences will not go to the expense of live visits, not at all, but should in any case extend this, this possibility of talking to the family, especially considering that Požega is the only female prison so that her family, the women who are there or her children from Dubrovnik, so imagine how many times and what it costs and what it means for a family from Dubrovnik or from the lower part of this Dalmatia to go all the way up to Požega. I also want to say it was nice to hear from Mr. Minister when he's talking about the fact that this law goes in that direction of humane conduct and keeping the dignity of a person, of course, but I believe that you were also former Mr. Minister was and that you know that in many prisons there are still squatters inside, and these are squatters that are not minimally separated, that at least they're separated from the view, but the rest of the prisoners while they eat and everything, I literally have to talk about it, about making an emergency, we have to imagine it because I don't think that this thing helps. We're not talking about making some resort for the prisoners good, no, we're aware that they need to be limited right, that, but this certainly doesn't go in the direction of dignity of the person and of the persons of these others, it's an unnecessary experience, I would say violence against people and we certainly don't support it. And in that sense, we see equally numerous remarks and amendments sent to you by prison guards, or these members of this prison police. The lack of staff continues to have a significant impact on the work of these criminal authorities. They complain that the provisions of the collective agreement are not respected so that most cannot use those rights to pause and the rest and they have given a number there, so the law must find an answer to these problems. And lastly, he'd just like to say the following, which is that Horvatincic drinks coffee in Samobor, and he apologizes for not going to jail for severe illness. How does this law ensure that people do not manipulate the rules? That's our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5074	6th is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement and esteemed colleague Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5075	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'd like to thank Mr. Matully for one nice creamworth we'll hear later. To begin with, let me tell you that the Homeland Movement will not support this bill. You'll hear it, of course, through our full bag of amendments, but when the time comes, there's just a few things that we here in this bill seem like absolute notsens or what they would say for domesticity. Let me just quote you some articles, like Art. 90, which speaks of the right to the work of prisoners or, with the written consent of another employer, the prisoner may be granted a continuation of his work with the employer if he has been sentenced to a term of up to 1 year, and unless he is granted a security measure prohibiting the performance of a specific duty or activity. It's said here that he can be granted this and he's doing it on his own economics, and what made us particularly happy when we saw, who put the devil's boy here in this sentence, or other activity, and of course he owns the cost of accommodation in a penitentiary or prison. So let's do it a little bit now, let's take a look at it like a regular man. So, economic and other activity, if I understand correctly, here opens up the possibility that a prisoner sentenced to a short prison sentence continues to do his job. Clearly, first she has to enter the prison system, have to sign it up, take his shoes and everything she's already doing there, so when she sits inside she writes an application to the warden, she's waiting for approval, so you know it should take her own few months, and at large if she's convicted by one year she can. the conditional freedom to go already after 2/3 of the fined sentence, so this is by my assessment and by the assessment of the Homeland Movement a very finely drawn article that will in fact certainly not help employment in Croatia but allow the petty party's first offenders of the law to fully relax because even if they get a powerful verdict by one year if they are not banned from performing that activity neatly, instead of in prison on Monday, they can come to work nicely in their municipality or county as if nothing had happened at all. The domestic movement will not support this kind of mockery of the law. Through the amendments, we will seek, of course, a change of this item, but about when the time comes. Thank you again, fellow Matuli, for the great creamworth, just to read you some parts of the article. 113. "in the case of serious or long-term diseases for which there are no conditions for successful treatment in a prison or in prison of a prisoner, the doctor shall be transferred to a prison or prison where there are conditions for such treatment or to a prison hospital in Zagreb. During treatment at the prison hospital Zagreb towards the prisoner is implemented a programme of execution established in the prison from which it is referred to the treatment." So now let’s read a little or what my parents would say up in Zagorje “fornicate. ” These articles prescribe the procedures and manner of accommodation of a sick prisoner, which is decided by a doctor in accordance with the possibilities of a prison, just to shorten the legal formulation. Unless there are no conditions for the successful treatment of prisoners in the penitentiary or prison of prisoners, according to the doctor's proposal, is transferred to another prison or prison where there are conditions for such treatment or, of course, the mentioned prison hospital Zagreb. Now, let's see what's actually in that article. Thank you very much, dear Willy. We will mention the gentleman for whom we and the Zagreb County Court, through an official statement on their site, assures that as a legally convicted person, so legally speaking, will still be inaccessible to this bill because he is only a convict, and daily we see him drinking coffee and going to expensive shopping or taking pictures on elite yachts in the Adriatic this summer, this person should finally pass through the door of the diagnostic centre in Zagreb and become officially a prisoner. With sincere desires for the quick healing of the mentioned gentleman, we can only say there, lively either and seen. Here's another interesting story. What to say for some members of the privileged caste that health problems begin to feel as soon as a powerful verdict breaks down against them. Thus, a Varazdinian bird known as Birdman immediately, by the power of the verdict, postponed his departure to serve the sentence by way of an article. 61st century 3rd point. 4 which is also in this bill and says that delaying the execution of a prison sentence may be due to the obligation of convicts to complete the work that has been initiated, which would result in significant material damage. G. works at the Varazdin City Parks, I'm just curious about how it's an organization of lawns and bush cuttings is something very, very important and irreparable. So, the Homeland Movement points out from its draft an independent judiciary as one of the foundations of a stable and modern Croatian state, and the long-standing trials that end with shameful judgments, the escapes of Croatian converts under the auspices of their other country, BiH, and this wonder, just a few hours before the court ruling fell. Well, about, my people, it's as if someone from the Elliot Ness family told Capone we're coming for you tomorrow, get out. So, we also have verbal carnivorous carnivores where the practice of old character handling dark-road basketball is invented, and we also have a youth of HDZ who demotes cafes by carlovac, gets out of date, and not to mention the famous club of wrestling sports in Virovitica, which runs the famous father and his even more famous sons. Even when the DORH manages to catch a few large fish, they are seized by some stuffed mammals, underground art collections, a few million on the bill, and we are still waiting for Ježic to return his 5m euros, which, behold, there is still no, by some miracle, crown evidence from the DORH archives to disappear. The latest news here is that the wind, not from Dinara, but from Krsh-Paden, blew out the memory cards from the Roman case. Well, here, please, look, maybe when you come home today, by chance, if you have them somewhere in the closet or in the basement. We don't need a dishwasher, we need a serious dishwasher because buses and planes are full of young people who have successfully killed every hope that here one day a normal state can flourish. Don't say that these people went abroad just for money because it's not true. Most of them went and felt bitterness and helplessness in front of a system that mercilessly tramples on a small man, and elevates great and forgiving powerful men. The worst thing you've ever done, you've shared society in the worst way possible. Not to the left and right, not to the partisans, not to the Ustashas, not to the black, not to the white, but to the very body of the Croatian state and divided us into the 2 worst possible camps. We and them. We, they're just little people who go to work every morning, if they have it at all, work all month for a miserable salary and wait 35 years to work so they can enjoy a miserable retirement church. And they, they are a privileged caste of rich and arrogant. They act like a bully on a school playground. He puts his hand in other people's pockets, he takes out money, he honors himself and his satellites, but if he accidentally raises his voice and says no, then they're under the laps of politics, under party cards, under the judiciary, under old age and so on. political persecution. There are more terrible consequences to this behavior. All of Croatia has recently been horrified by a video in which young people in Kaštela have been scolding and harassing their peer, and what does it really show? That a whole generation of young people who may well be sitting here one day are practically proud of violence against the weak and helpless, and that's exactly what this system is for. Juvenile violence, as one of the most terrible problems of Croatian today, finds its roots precisely in a disturbed dysfunctional family that has lost every system of values and is only important to it to garner and have. In doing so, don't think of the weaker or the poorer for a moment. Here with full right I will point both fingers and fingers on the left and on the right side, along with all of you who have ruled these 30 years, and your methods are the same as Tahy's, before 450, take, steal, cheat, kidnap and no one. And that is why, dear people, the Homeland Movement in the coalition with the Croatian people will constantly fight for the same Croatian people through a fair and honorable Croatian judiciary to return the reputation, honor and trust of all inhabitants of Croatia, and by coming to power, they will make concrete moves to make such an unsustainable situation a lasting change for the better and that we will all finally be equal before God, justice and the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5076	It is now up to the SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5077	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Good afternoon, everyone. I apologize right away, I don't have such a beautiful and merciful singing and leading voice as my colleague Dretar. We had a debate on this law and the bill on the Justice Committee, although, as former Minister Bosnjakovic said, this is a law that comes to first reading the second time and what I want to say at the very beginning of this debate, that any change in the system of prison is going to be better, we are ready to support it and ready to follow its further implementation. Of course, as the rate of crime is changing, the way crime is done by the emergence of new technologies, so certain conditions that need to function in the prison system and what is certainly good for us to point out is that with this we are in line with the good part of the European directives and European gains in this system, but certainly on the Committee itself we said that we all want to be together, that we will have more luck with this bill, since in the last 20 years we have had 13 changes in this law, so obviously every year and a half days there has been some need to change something again, which just says that there may have been no clear vision of what we want to do with this law and how we want our prison system to function. It is certainly a good step, but in order to restore our faith in institutions, and the judiciary is definitely the most important institution we will still have to change much more. I have a number of times apostrophe in my discussions that young people from this country do not leave because they do not leave because they are more beautiful in Germany if they do not have a better place than Croatia than they are simply because they have lost faith in the institutions of this country and because they simply do not believe that it is possible to create a just society in which we will all have equal rights. The justice system will not only change the changes in the prison system and we will not be able to say that it works so long as we have an example of one Mamic brother who escaped the night before the ruling in Medjugorje, so today he must be disguised as a psychic, another brother who has been illegally convicted by Coach Dinam, a third case is Mr Horvatincic, mentioned in previous discussions that he is too sick to be in prison from that syncope, but therefore he can drink coffee and threaten people with the police and what is most interesting in that whole story that another man of the Croatian judicial system, so the second most important judge Mr. Turudic Maltene, does not hide that he is a friend with them all and that it is probably all normal. But let's hope that by amending the law, we'll still make these things a lie and take it one step at a time to start bringing people back to faith in the institutions of this country. As far as this law itself is concerned, it is now joined by several laws, from several legal frameworks, and it is certain that the club, which the SDP Club gives, will give quite a few amendments, expecting to be heard even more from the opinion of the profession. The name of the law itself may be something that leads us to the wrong path because the law is called the Law on the maintenance of the law, and we have put in it the labour rights of all those people who work in the prison system and it might be a much better idea that it is either a little extended name or that the whole law is called a law on the prison system, because what we have received as the most remarks that was announced in March when it was going to be the first reading that the meetings would be done, that the sitting with an interested profession would now return to us through e-consultation and it is obvious that we have not talked to the trade unions of the judicial police, nor with the Police Union, nor with the Union of State and local officials, but that we have not adopted the opinions of the Advocates for the children of Ms. Pirnat Dragicevic. And this way I appeal that everything we try to do through the amendments is still seen, heard and indeed finally heard, because Mr. Salapic told us that the meetings with the unions have not yet been done in that way. The most important people in the prison system are our judicial officers, all those who hang out and have their roles both in investigations and in the execution of penalties, and if we don't have motivated and satisfied people in our unions, we can hardly expect our judicial system to work. I've been playing with coefficients a little bit, and all I can say is that it's absolutely inappropriate for some people in the justice police system to have the same odds and the same wages as administrative references somewhere in the office. These people are taking a lot more of a risk, not to say they wear their daily head in a bag and are much more important to us in the very functioning of our legislative, repressive, judicial system. So we appeal once again, that, with all the good that we are trying to do with this law, it finally sits with union representatives, listens to the interested profession because what is visible and in e-consultation has a lot to tell and show, and maybe if we are not already ready to go into a special law for their rights that everything about them is done in a much more adequate and much fairer way. I forgot, i.e. I mentioned, and in the introduction, I have not so far cited a special child's attorney who also had very good and quality suggestions based on all those complaints she received from the parents of young children as well as to make it easier for them to resociate and return on the right path, and I also think that some of the following provisions in some subsequent discussions would be very good to include her. We can make formally beautiful laws, but if we don't have satisfied people who need to act on them, who will need them, we'll have a hard time implementing any law in a good and quality way. I think we have plenty of time to engage in that direction, the interest in the debate exists, all these people are involved in our e-consultation, and I hope we find time and will to sit down again, talk and go through these neural points that they've pointed out to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5078	He will now speak for his respected colleague Veljko Kajtazi on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5079	This law that we are discussing today in our first reading refers to a subject that is quite often.../incomprehensible/... in our public. The simplest thing is to turn your head from people who are in penitentiary penitentiary and prisons and say, they're guilty of it, let them in prison deserve it. Clearly, people are in prisons because they have done something wrong, but one of the fundamental elements of democratic society is that humanity is not only manifested through the help of the most vulnerable in society but also what one might consider controversial and through humanity for those who have committed crimes. Now someone's gonna wonder what's human to these people? Being human does not mean freeing someone from serving a sentence or shortening his sentence. No, but anyone who's guilty has to do his duty to society. However, even before serving the sentence itself, condemnation should take into account the work committed or the action committed and the punishment committed must be proportionate, not that someone convicted of embezzling millions serves parole, and someone who stole a battery, milk, or bread that must go to prison. When we talk about what it means to be human, it primarily means that people who serve punishment are provided with the conditions of a decent man. And in this respect, it must be said that much progress has been made in the last ten years. Is that progress enough to achieve what we need to strive for, that is another question, and we will return to it a little later. Our prison system consists of 7 penitentiary and 14 prisons and 2 educational institutions. The system has the total capacity to receive 3,900 prisoners at a certain point, and through the prison system in 2018 for that year we have the latest data that more than 11,000 prisoners have passed. Out of that number, 4,019 prisoners, more than 4,000 were held in prison, and the rest were tied to certain criminal proceedings. These figures, when viewed, are not large compared to, say, the United States where there are currently over 2 million people in prisons, or almost 1% of the adult population in that country. Since the prisoners in Croatia do not have much better chances and opportunities to provide them with examples of conditions. When the conditions in Croatian prisons and penitentiaries are spoken of by people in the guard system and former prisoners, they are often heard that the situation in prisons is critical or even catastrophic. The competent unions claim that all prisons lack a judicial officer, so Remetec lacks 70 people in Split's 26th prison, according to their estimates in the system, between 300 and 400 judicial officers are missing. The working conditions are difficult, the job is almost impossible to organise according to the rules of the profession, and a judicial officer generally cares for 150 prisoners. A judicial officer who has 35 years of training and an allowance of 30% per month works for 5,100 kuna. No wonder no one wants to work in the prison system and that a month at least one judicial officer quit. This bill should be amended and improved, and in that sense it deserves support. Of course, we'll see the final outcome. The problem is not just wages but other material working conditions, let's say a little out of every sense our penitentiary and prisons don't have dogs to detect drugs, they're poorly supplied with metal detectors until the existing ones are serviced regularly. Unfortunately, they are neither rare nor fatal cases, and one of the cases that has been arousing Croatia at the time is the death of 18-year-old young man Kristian Vukasovic, who broke all the illogicalities and irregularities of society and state. It was only an adult youth who had both physical and mental difficulties. Vukasovic was not tried under the Law on Juvenile Courts, although the law should be applied to him in view of his age. Unfortunately, I must note that such cases also exist with members of the Roma national minority who too often end up in prisons with convictions inappropriate for the work they have done. And what to expect from a person so young was convicted, and... on the other hand, as many who have committed many, much more serious crimes and even accidents and still walk the streets of Croatia as if nothing had happened. Tell me, what do you expect a young person like that to behave when he gets out of prison and sees such injustice? Will they believe in the system that justice always wins? Let us return to the conditions of serving the sentence, so one prisoner describes the conditions or how he was detained in Remetinco together with 7 or 8 prisoners in a 21 square metre cell where the sanitary node is less than 2 m2 only partially separated from the cell and there is a table near which he eats. The shower was only allowed once a week. Some who have experienced the prison system have decided to act legally, so former prisoners are increasingly suing Croatia's European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. For a reason, they cite overcrowding and poor conditions in prisons, especially sanitary. Some lawsuits even won, and lawyers announce a whole wave of new lawsuits. All these problems were also seen by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which has already reached several rulings against Croatia, and in favour of former prisoners, Croatia had to pay compensation to them. But that compensation is the least of the problems in the whole story, the conditions mentioned are not consistent with anyone or the most difficult criminals, and once again I go back to the beginning and I wonder if that's the human society we talked about. I would like to look further at the position of members of the Roma national minority in prisons, as well as in life outside of prison. Under prison conditions, Roma are unfortunately among the most human and civil rights groups. Some of the complaints I received speak of how it happens when Roma is caught stealing something additionally charged with other thefts in the area, which condemns the prison sentence to which he is sentenced in the grand. The poor financial situation of the Roma population makes it impossible for them to have quality legal assistance, which is an additional problem in their processes, creating a vicious cycle of poverty and crime from which it is difficult to emerge. I have been a representative for some time, and during this period I received not a small number of letters from prisoners of Roma nationality in which they described the treatment they had. There are things like preventing someone from working in a prison system through ridicule and insults because of their origin and nationality, and physical injury and harassment, rarely and sexually. I was particularly affected by the appeal of a Roma who had been prevented from attending the 7th and 8th grade of primary school in prison so that after the execution of the sentence he could easily fit into society. I quote some of his words "I want to finish school so that when I get out of jail, I can get a better job because I don't want to be on the burden of the state. to live on welfare from which you couldn't support yourself and the child. I'd like to make a contribution to myself and my family because I don't want to do crime anymore. How do you go on after your prison sentence? Serious is the problem not only among the Roma population but also among the population in general. There simply isn't enough mechanism from the state to train former prisoners to function normally within normal social flows? For most former prisoners, finding a job after leaving prison is a nightmare. Most employers refuse to hire a person after serving a sentence, and employment and permanent income are the first step to get these people back into our society. Rehabilitation of prisoners for the purpose of additional adult education, the acquisition of qualifications that will be prepared for integration once they are released. The sentence for the prisoners was spent in prison and should not be further punished after leaving. I therefore believe that it is of utmost importance to invest in the education and treatment of prisoners because they are more competent for life will be much more difficult to decide to return to crime, and therefore we are a safer society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5080	We are now going to the last debate of the club, it is a party representative with a name and name, Smart and Glass and respected colleague Dalia Oreshković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5081	Good afternoon, Honorable President HS, fellow MPs and MPs. I will really focus only on what is the content of the law we are discussing by not entering those issues concerning both the judiciary and the criminal law as such, but they fall within the sphere of some other laws, not this one. This is really about the matter that deserves a new law, and that is also what the opening argument is about. And dryly reading the text of the law alone cannot say that it does not bring certain and rather good improvements. However, since deprivement of freedom is one of the most sensitive issues of protection of fundamental rights and freedom, I still call on all MPs to be extra careful and to further consideration. When we talk about the assessment of the situation, much is described in, in the text of the proposings, but I think it is not enough. We need a quality and detailed analysis of the main problems in the system, not in general, not the flat-rate and not the one that we need to draw up by interpreting reports from different state bodies starting with the attorney general, and beyond. Speaking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, former Minister Bosnjakovic said the main objective of this law is to affirm the principles of humanity and humanity. At the same time, however, he acknowledged a circumstance that all those who unfortunately had the opportunity to meet with the prison system, which is that in our penitentiary and prisons there are significantly different conditions in terms of basic standards. And colleague Willy Matula mentioned something that in many of our penitentiary and prisons there are conditions that are thick below the level of elementary human dignity, that's our fact. I therefore believe that we must plan ahead because as long as the standard, the elemental standard in all these institutions is not brought to the same and the same measure, we are in fact constantly violating the elemental principle of equality and this is the most vulnerable and most sensitive group of citizens, and these are those citizens who are deprived of their freedom. So I say, I call on us to plan ahead and to really deal with systemic solutions otherwise, one good legal text will remain inconclusive. And the second question I particularly wish to address is the question of the status of civil servants and deputies, especially those who have the status of authorised persons with special powers. The opening argument already shows that their working legal relationship is regulated by a number of different regulations. So let's not make a legislative cacophony. The fact is, the unions asked for certain conversations and we didn't answer their law. I also consider this on the basis of the personal experiences and disputes that I have led to that there are important information and knowledge as well as experiences that cannot be read in the relevant documents, and it would be very useful for the legislator to make and come up with a better legislative solution. When I say you need to sit down and talk to people, I don't think that's what government representatives should do. I call on this body to organise, where appropriate, a joint meeting with all those involved in the system of enforcement of both union representatives and representatives of the professional and interested public, including representatives of the courts who have certain powers to address complaints and inspections of the situation in the courts themselves, within the framework of the relevant parliamentary committees, both the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and, where appropriate, others. I would also like to point out that 15 days of public debate really wasn't enough for all justified criticisms, proposals and, and, and, some different solutions to be incorporated into further legislative activities. That's what we should be making a little more bills about in the future. If we do not do so again, we will come up with quick and under-thinking measures, and as can be seen from this assessment of the situation. So when we create cacophony, then we'll come back to some legal uncertainty that, over the past period, came from the fact that we're in 5. From 2013 to 2018, we had one parallel system that decided on parole, and on the one hand we had a court which, under the new law, decided on this scale, and on the other hand we had a four-member commission that certainly had some other criteria and other rules on which it made its decisions. So, continuously through our indiscretion, we create inequality and what I think is the fundamental problem of this country and what I want to correct through my political work, which is that we create a system in which different rules apply to different people. Let us not repeat the same mistake through a good initiative, through a law that is really needed. Until the second reading, it's really enough time to put all this stuff I'm talking about into the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5082	This is what we've come to an end with the club debates, so we're moving on to an individual debate. First enlisted by colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5083	Thank you very much. Respected citizens, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would only at first say that there are many righteous people in prisons, and many, many more of those who should have been in prison, who have done huge damage to society, mainly to Croatian society, should have been in prisons, and when we talk about people who are in prison, we have to distinguish the right from justice and so, simply, justice is something that we will never achieve. We in Croatia, when we talk about the prison system, then we have to look at it through, of course, the penitentiary and the way it is determined, however, is the fact that people in prisons don't have good living conditions and that we need to devote ourselves to that human part of those people, we can't just judge, they're in jail, again I repeat there are a lot of those on the loose who have well robbed, destroyed this country. Here, I'm getting information now, for example. In Kaštel, cab drivers defend others to be able to carry out transport, police know about it, the judiciary knows, everyone knows, however, people do not have the right to work at the Kaštel airport. Of course, because certain lobbys don't want certain people to show up here. Even people who drive taxis, defenders, are prevented from having Croatian defenders deal with this transport, i.e. It stops them and interferes with them, right? That's my recent information, I'm going to have to devote a little more to it because it has every right to work on the market and every citizen to do business. Of course, when we talk about prisons, lately here we see, it's a key story, not recently in the Republic of Croatia, it all comes down to a few people. Here, we're personally because we don't have a verdict on the INA, no one is to blame for the INA because the Constitutional Court has annulled a judicial verdict for Ivo Sanader in the case of MOL, we simply can't believe that no one is to blame for the INA. No one. Either everything goes to Ivo Sanader, so it's Ivo Sanader's fault, or in this case it's all Josepha Rimac's fault, no one else's fault. So when I look at prisons and those people in prison, there are people who deserve punishment, to serve their society, but when I see how many of them are out there, those who should be in prison, then people in the building are living, and unfortunately that's why people move out. Because of these injustices, I simply cannot watch what is happening in our society. I'm looking at a number of cases that happened, here, that young man died in prison, a Split prison, that we remember, these problems, those reactions were nothing, we don't know what's going on inside, inside the prison system, but we all know that their conditions are bad. Well, there can't be 20 people at 10 squares. I mean, it's inhuman, inhuman, inhuman. And we can't put in jail there a grandmother who sells onions on the market because she didn't have permission of her onion, domestic, O.P.G.'s onion, or a chapel or a salad or a blubber, and sentence her to jail because she can't pay the fine while criminals walk the streets of the city. So unfairly, the judiciary is a key problem and prison sentences and making a solution, we see that we have processes of 10, 15 years, some accelerated, here, I'm glad, let's say, a few days ago, two, three months ago, it's personal to me, I think it's the right of everyone, sued by former President Stipe Mesic, and I'm glad that so much justice in that case is accelerated, but we see that some cases, I demand that the process be resolved as soon as possible. But I'm also looking at cases of major crime in the Republic of Croatia, that no one is doing anything, and these people are at large. And that's the problem, no. 1 is the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. This is why people leave, while the judiciary, acts like this, Croatia cannot be sure of either economic or economic or any other form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5084	The second in line for an individual debate is Honorable Representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5085	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, government representatives, good afternoon first of all. Let me begin by briefly referring to the presentation of fellow Matula and once again emphasise the importance and value of cultural and cultural arts programmes in the prison system, and in this respect we should show our gratitude and our respect for all individuals and associations who carry out such activities in the prison system. I would also like from this place, from this pay phone, all those colleagues mentioned by my colleague Matula, from this place I would also like to highlight the work of the Skribonauti Association, which has been implementing cultural and cultural-art programs in the prison system since 2011. Now something else, I would like something about education and let me begin by quoting Article 92 of the still applicable law, which in paragraph 1, says: “The penitentiary or prison organizes basic education up to 21 years of life for prisoners who do not have a finished primary school. Paragraph 2 states that the description of illiterate prisoners is organised independently of life." The new law that we are discussing today replaces these two paragraphs of this article with the first sentence of Article 99, which reads: "The penitentiary or prison organises, in accordance with the possibilities, the primary education of adults or prisoners who do not have completed their primary education." It is evident that the new law leaves out the obligation to describe, and the obligation to ensure the possibility of basic education relativeises. We find that unacceptable. An identical remark in the public consultation procedure was also made by the Office of the Advocate General. It is answered that this remark is not accepted by reason of the fact that the new law provides more than a description of the whole basic education. The previous quote shows, however, that this is not true because the syntagma can be interpreted in different ways in practice, and even when opportunities in a particular institution do not exist there is no mechanism to ensure that it works in the direction of obtaining such opportunities. That's the idea of at least the basic education of prisoners here relatively, and there's an open space to bypass this one I'd say social obligations. Moreover, we also advocate that prisoners, if opportunities are organised, can be implemented through the activities and through various associations. In addition to this position, it is not necessary to say anything other than to quote the explanation of the Ombudsman's Office in public consultation. Many penal institutions generally lack activities aimed at developing skills that will benefit prisoners after their release that will facilitate social reintegration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The international pact on civil and political rights clearly states that the primary objective of dealing with prisoners should be their social rehabilitation. Reintegration of prisoners into society after his release depends largely on the possibility of finding a way to earn a living. For a part of the prisoners, the time spent in the maintenance of the sentence may be their first opportunity to develop professional skills that enable them to carry out a job. According to the 2017 Justice Department, approximately 13% of prisoners in the execution of prison sentences are low levels of education, which means they have unfinished primary school, and part of them does not possess basic reading and writing skills. All prisoners found at the execution of prison sentences, regardless of their age, should be offered the possibility of free education or completion of primary schooling. Here's what we're going to stand for, and I'm appealing to the minister and to the government's representatives to think about this in forming a final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5086	Thank you very much. Stay here for a moment we have one replica, the respected representative of Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5087	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bakic of yours would be able to draw the conclusion that the most endangered or second-row citizens are the ones who are in our penitentiary. I share the opinion that you have cited here, or the problems you have written, but the biggest citizens of the second order are the ones who carry out their duties neatly and have no dual citizenship and do not play with the Croatian judiciary. The cancer of the Croatian judiciary will always be to avoid the execution of a prison sentence, which unfortunately all our citizens see, and that is exactly the root of all the problems, and that is what all the problems are about. As long as individuals make fun of the Croatian judiciary and at the moment they are due to go to serve, serving prison sentences go to neighbouring countries, laughing with all of us, the people will look at it, they will not trust our institutions, and we will hardly have any part of what you mentioned here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5088	Thank you. Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5089	Well, of course I agree with you as well as with actually more or less all the colleagues who spoke before. We, of course, speak in different aspects, in different faces the same thing. Of course, there's no need to repeat everything even though I say we agree. The emphasis in my presentation was on something else, so first of all he was on the elementary right of prisoners. On the other hand, the emphasis was on the action of society in the direction, in the final and prevention of relapses, and therefore the possibility of allowing prisoners to at least look into normal civil status already in the maintenance of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5090	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5091	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is about specific jobs and specific jobs that are necessary to separate from the scope of the Civil Service Act. In particular, the Law on the execution of a prison sentence should be lex specialis, and the provisions of the Law on civil servants and the Labour Act should then be applied where a particular question is not governed by this law. If the applicant stays with such proposals where the status of officials and subsistence has not improved in any way, we will have amendments. The law requires not only the execution of prison sentences but also the establishment of a prison system and the legal position of officials. It should therefore be pointed out that, in addition to the execution of the prison sentence, the law regulates both the organisation of the prison system and the legal position of officials in accordance with Article. 7th century 3. the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of HS acts published in the National Journal 74/2015, so that the basic provisions apply to the whole regulation, and not only to the part of it, of course, without taxing all parts. Penalty, criminal authorities, therefore penitentiary, prisons, educational establishments and centres are to be classified in categories in accordance with the size of the business which is to be carried out in these constituencies. The proposal leaves only the possibility of classification. In this way, it would also determine which categories of institution are being established, i.e. which specific internal units and to which levels to which they are being established. We welcome the desire to increase the redundancies to officials when they leave for retirement, but the real increase will not happen for all employees, mainly not for those lower officials in the system, but will feel the most of it again by managing officials. We also consider the proposed method of determining the amount of severance, taking into account the work experience carried out in the prison system it is discriminatory. Since the Special Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials provides for a condition for retirement, it is unnecessary to additionally introduce the terms of the year of employment in the prison system, so up to 10, up to 10 to 20, and more than 20. The correct determination of retirement is whether to leave early, regular or disabled, and by which criteria and determine the amount of severance. The amount of the severance should be the average salary of the officials over the last 3 months increased by a certain amount depending precisely on the above criteria. We believe that the jobs of the inmates in the prison system should not be systematised but should be official jobs, and all because of the specificity of the system itself, it would be a more quality and fairer solution, and the reason I see it is that, which even now the tenants are actually doing in the same conditions, and they do not have the same status. For example. The cook and assistant chef in the penitentiary or prison, the cook is a professional teacher, so the chef is a clerk, while the assistant chef is a substitute. They both work in the same conditions, in direct contact with prisoners, and in the same way their lives are threatened, but their rights are different and they are incomparable. Such things need to be corrected, it can be classified as jobs, and the list of jobs and the coefficients of complexity of jobs that would not be related to the Law on civil servants. In the same way, the status of police officers of the MUP has been resolved, and it is related services and the same dangerous and specific jobs as they are in the prison system itself. It is sad to reach standards in the prison execution system, and for a reason we see only adaptation to the existing situation and lack of staff, especially health professions. So, for example. In carrying out a tightst measure under the applicable law, a medical examination of prisoners is required once every 24 hours, and is now proposed only twice a week. This is just one in a series of examples. We welcome good solutions in the form of the introduction of new technologies into prison systems, therefore video calls to family members, video surveillance, electronic surveillance, etc., acceleration of procedures, references to the maintenance of a powerful prison sentence, but only these measures are not reformable, and even less these measures will attract new people into the prison system or keep existing officials from leaving the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5092	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be, ah excuse me, there was one replica, this respected representative here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5093	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said it was unfair because the tenants are in a much worse position because they have far less rights than officials. Therefore, it would not be possible to agree with you because, in accordance with the Law on Officials and Deputys and Deputys and Officials, the same labour rights are the only difference that, in accordance with the Order on Payments, there are therefore differences in coefficients, which is also in some order in view of the fact that the tenants have a less professional qualification than the officials. Of course we're not talking about whether existing coefficients are in line with the conditions in which they work. So if the coefficients of the officers are increasing then they should probably also be taken into account to increase the coefficients of the tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5094	Thank you, representatives of Jelkovac, and the answer of the respected representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5095	Thank you to my colleague for the replica. So, I've spoken to several officials and several tenants, here's exactly on this example of chefs and assistant chefs have explained to me in fact that they are working in absolutely the same conditions and they expect us to treat them that way because a large number of them have and left the system because they think that there are certain injustices in relation to them and here is what that was. I agree that people should be paid on the basis of their height and level of education, but here they need to be spoken to, so that they can figure out what they think is wrong. In 5 minutes, it's really little time to explain everything they're complaining about, and here's why I think it's very, very important, that coordination between the officers, the tenants and us as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5096	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5097	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I believe that in this law efforts are very good, and I did not answer to comment on certain items in the article of the law. However, I was offered individual debates regarding employees and in one section about employees and their rights. I've already had Mrs. Vukovic beat me to it, and she's been talking about problems that are related to employees, so I'm not going to repeat myself in that part. I'm going to look back at that part and I'm going to appeal to Mr. Secretary to consider it a little bit and think about it, and these are employee records and monitoring. We've been working on this system for a long time, and we've been thinking about how to do it. We believe that a good information system is needed to connect with other systems that monitor the personal data of these prisoners. Especially data related to their punishments, offences or some crime they've committed. In addition, I would remind you that you probably have this in your documents when we were working on analysis for information systems saying that we needed a single system, an information system unique to a complete prison system that would actually enable some unique management of all the resources of the entire prison system. So we actually connect all this data into one whole and there's a possibility that it can be managed centrally with all that data. It would help many of these employees, and I think it would actually be much better and more quality to manage other resources in the prison system. In some cases, some discussions have actually shown that there is some kind of misunderstanding of certain provisions of this law, which actually leads to a wrong understanding of these provisions in the public. I will refer to the possibility of continuing to work with the employer where the prisoner worked before arriving for the maintenance of the prison sentence or continuing his own activity and during the maintenance of the prison sentence. This article was criticised in one debate and appeared to be an article that suits prisoners with a membership card. However, today we also heard more from the generals and others in the debate that there are many innocent people in prisons, people who committed crimes, however they ended up in prison. We can't walk away from the notion that only criminals are in prison. When reading these articles, we need to understand that there are people who ended up in prison unfairly and we need to set things up differently. We've got to get going, for example. of the possibility that the prisoner was in prison for a car accident in which he was killed, the prisoner did not drive under the influence of alcohol, the prisoner did not drive at a speed greater than the speed limit, but because of the deaths he ended up in prison. He didn't even do the accident, but he ended up in jail. At the same time, that prisoner is the only family employee, the woman is a housewife, children at school. So I'm asking if we should make a social case out of this family or if it's smarter to allow that prisoner to continue working with his employer or to continue his activities. Of course, if he did some big crime, if he was carrying money to Sokol Marić or Finni Yes, and he stole this million kuna, we certainly won't return it to the workplace, but for the people who have committed violations and the people for whom there is the possibility of continuing to work with their employer, I think we should and should make it possible, but we need other members of the law or some other law or sublegal act to prevent the abuse of that article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5098	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5099	Here's what you'd agree with, sorry, what you said and certainly added, the fact that you predicted employment in the judicial system for a judicial officer at 35 years of age, a person older than 35 years of age is still, too high an age that should be lowered to 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5100	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5101	If I hadn't, I said Mrs. Vukovic beat me to it in her debate when she said this in the staff and I didn't look back on it anymore. I think we should dedicate to employees a special law or some sublegal act defining all these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-04-0.u5102	Thank you very much. This would end the debate on this point, so I will conclude it, and we will vote on it when the conditions are obtained.
