ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185103	Dear MPs and MPs, President of the Assembly, the existing Law on national infrastructure of spatial data has been transposed into Croatian legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2007 on the establishment of infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community and called INSPIRE Directive. The NIP or national spatial data infrastructure defined as a set of technologies, measures, norms, implementing rules, services, human capacities and other factors that enable effective integration, management and maintenance of shared spatial data to meet needs at national and European level, which is an integral part of the European spatial data infrastructure defined by INSPIRE Directive. The purpose of the national data infrastructure, spatial data is to make spatial data available to the public authority in a simple, understandable manner and thus to keep the data ready and maintained. The law introduces transparency in the jurisdiction of spatial data through general provisions laying down obligations for the application of the law, NIP entities, public authorities having jurisdiction or part-time of the work of maintaining or using spatial data, as well as other natural and legal persons meeting the conditions laid down in the law. The State Geodetic Authority shall be a national contact point for the NIP and the implementation of the INSPIRE Directive. The law also prescribed the composition of the NIP councils as well as the reporting obligations of the national contact point on the implementation of INSPIRE Directive to the European Commission. The main issues covered by the proposed law entered into force on 26 June 2019, under code 1010 on the harmonisation of environmental reporting obligations in the field of environmental legislation. The same Directive amended INSPIRE Directive as regards the reporting obligation of the Member States to the European Commission, and it is also necessary to amend the provisions of the current law for that purpose. That Regulation 1010 simplifies and rationalises the monitoring of the reporting of Member States or their national contact points responsible for communication with the European Commission and whose role in the Republic of Croatia is played by the State Geodetic Authority while reducing the administrative burden associated with monitoring and reporting. Updated information should be collected in a easier and comparable manner in which it is less burdensome for all participants in the reporting. It also provides a consistent and comparable approach to monitoring, EU reporting. Furthermore, the law prescribes the establishment of a NIP council in a way that the councils form representatives of the state administration body as well as the community of the economy. This proposal stipulates that the president of the NIP council is appointed from the ranks of the State Geodetic Administration as the national contact points responsible for the establishment of the NIP. All operations relevant for the establishment of the NIP and the implementation of the INSPIRE Directive are primarily linked to the national contact point. That proposal to amend the President of the Council would result in greater efficiency in the work of the Council itself and would link it. the interaction with the national contact point itself within the meaning of this provision and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the Directive was even more effective. In addition, with the aim of harmonising the State Information Infrastructure Act, it is proposed that the exchange and sharing of data at national level be governed by the Protocol while the existing legal solution remains to be shared between NIP entities and the European Commission bodies and that they be governed by the Agreement. These draft laws will comply with the INSPIRE Directive and achieve a more efficient and efficient work of the National Business Data Infrastructure Council and will not have an impact on the State budget of our country for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185104	Thank you. We have four replicas. He's a colleague of the Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't think there's any problem here, and there's no problem. What's actually that we don't know what data should be collected or there's a lot of incorrect and incomplete data, no. Speaking of spatial data, what's certainly associated with us is already a catastre bar in Istria is 200 years old, cadastrian maps and property grounds not to talk, and the state itself doesn't know what's in its possession, so it seems to me that we're going back in some reverse sequence. I understand that these are directives and things need to be laid down and, yes, the fact is that we need to manage the data, that they're not scattered to multiple addresses, but I think we need to build a building first, and then the roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185106	There's no answer. Then let's go to another replica, Comrade Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185107	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, the bill itself is acceptable to the HNS club, we will support it at the end of what the colleague said earlier, we have a big problem and with the consistency of what is even known in Croatia and land books and catastras and certainly on the trail and modernisation and improvement in this way I think that we should also start at the country level with the harmonisation of land books and catastrases and all that data we enter, the question that we are introducing crucially. I know that the problem, the ownership of the constitutional category, the cadastre would and would do his job, but I'm also telling you State Secretary, I've spoken to you before and at the club we talked about it, I think it's high time to move from the State Geodetic Authority initiative to speed up the harmonisation of land books with a disaster and then exactly this law leads to forward would make far more sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185108	Thank you. You don't want an answer, okay. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185109	Thank you very much. This is just a directive by a directive that will edit spatial data in a broader sense than you said in your first sentence. However, gruntovnica, land books and cadastres are absolutely uncoordinated by the Austrian-Hungarian majority, so I don't know which data and whether this is the solution, which this solution gives except that we will have a list in one place. What is the solution to the property's legal settlement, the merger of the grantine and the catastra, is something being brought? No, with this alone we are fulfilling the EU directive, and in fact no solution to this law is being addressed, the problem we have in the matter of space is not being solved. Here, I'd like to ask the esteemed secretary if the matter of garters and cadastres is being resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185111	Thank you very much for asking. So this law is closely related to the sharing of spatial data and in no way enters these domains that you mentioned. However, in order not to pass this law, our country would remain isolated and have more data problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185112	And we're going to the fourth line of our colleagues, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185113	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Secretary of State. So this debate is unfortunately going to turn into a debate about the cataster and the garter, it's not that law. This law says something else, this law is from 2013 on collection and availability and spatial indicators that are important to all. So whoever's in the space, whether he's planning kindergartens, kindergartens and schools, if he's planning a new water network, there's spatial data that collects and the importance of accessibility and the importance of sharing. I'm wondering, are you satisfied with the way it works so far with how much data is collected with everyone together that there is a place where these data can and store and see and dispose of them or is there something in that sense that should be done? The law is good, so you're harmonising with the directive and we don't have that dilemma, but what do we have in reality, what does that reality look like, that's what I'm curious about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185114	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185115	Thank you very much. So the subject of data is always open, data is like projects, they can always be better and they're never finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185116	Thank you. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185117	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary with his associates. Space is what we have most, but this is before us a law that is harmonized i.e. in line with the European Directives on the national infrastructure of spatial data. This is significant, it should also be significant for local self-government and regional and state units and in essence everything that happens in space. And is this the moment and whether this directive will affect space, mainly there, and here's a colleague who just said that this has nothing to do with the Catastre and the grantovnica, but there's a huge show in our space where the state itself is essentially not just about what has been changed since Austro-Hungariania, very little in certain areas. I can tell about my area, here I recently had a leaven debate so there are particles in one land sheet to me it seems 40, 9 pence, 20 houses, and I don't know where the houses are or where they are but they belong to me. Who knows who lives here? I know some of my family lives. It's also on the female side, so marriages and vice versa. So we have one chaos, I'm saying it because of what's chaos in space, and most recently chaos in space. So until we solve the problem that the state, I'm going to give you one question, when making spatial plans of units of local self-government. The question is, should GUPs be brought in at all? Of course, everyone will say the triba, bring up the spatial plans of the unit of local self-government, it's the main developmental, it's the space that's important, we're going to keep, smartly plan, plan it, but when I'm only looking at what I'm sending to the State Inspectorate, I'm sending it to the Ministry of Construction, to all the ministries in charge, here on base stations, it's proven that the base station has been illegally set overnight, the teleoperators have something to say, here's an example of Radosic or, and he pays a certain penalty... di stand base stations in space, so we send a terrible bad message that Croatian legislation is. spatial plans units of local self-government my son exemplifies 50 meters from building land or from the last building cannot be set base stations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have a former bakery in Sinj also where we have a chimney and on that chimney they've adopted base stations, the man bought that former bakery and on that base station he put this one, on that chimney he put in an industrial zone, it's an industrial zone, he put in essentially a base station, on the chimney that he was serving in the bakery and suddenly she became unaware of what it is or this pillar is Athens or is il wearing, they have those two or roof... No one can know alive, and ten meters is from the next house, i.e. The building in the srid of the city of Sinja, the base station is over no matter what we have defined by GUP, known that in Istria it is well solved, I think the teleoperators do not respect it, that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have given now and the changes to the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan similar to what the Istrian County has decided to be away from setting up base stations seems to me 400 meters from the last, not mainly that there is, however, now there are 50 meters in Sinj and what is going on? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It happens that during the changes we ask only to move the base station is the man's way of looking to be replaced from the industrial to the business zone, not he goes on yet, it's made now we have in Sinj the biggest bell tower of the Wonder Lady of Sinj, now how many base stations he has set up now is the bigger chimney than the bell tower and goes on to get the meaning of application, does not get the change of space from industrial to business, but without a problem he opens that owner now the game of happiness, the casino without anyone to ask, then asks the question is given in the industrial zone, has given the cube the only industry in the Republic, in my Sinj and does so behave to the area where the breach of the GUP, means that the base stations can't be seen here and I write it down to the state inspector whether the broken industry in the GUP, Andrija Mikulić tells me that the Ministry of Health is responsible that the radiation in the framework of GUP, and that it means that there is not the key to the link to the link to the link to the key to the people in the link to the link to the link to the key to the city, and to the key to the key to the link of the key to the key to the key to the key to the city, and to the key, and to the key to the key to the key to the key to the key to the key to the key to the GP. As far as our space is concerned, we need to know that if we have anything to do with our coast, we have something significant, we have all of ours, but the lawless concreteisation of ours, it is, it has been created chaos in space, I do not know at all how to control it all more together so that it doesn't happen to us that we don't have any more pedals of our beach naturally preserved, from concessions given in local sheriffs and these counties which are the purpose of the county itself are purpose, again, concession rights give county and concessions can be seen as the Golden War, so in the Makarska coast is also in Trogir, so along the whole coast, even coalitions put together because of the concessions, let's say in the Split-Dalma County is the coalition of HDZ and the citizens's party because of Ben, the beach is smaller, so the coalition partner asked of the HDZ to have this beach, even coalition that there is the beach, so that we don't have the first place, we just look at the first place, we look at the first place, we look at the tele. Our infrastructure, which is of national vital importance, it means our connections, the teleopers have taken over the entire infrastructure, the complete infrastructure, but the government of the former HDZ has ended this conversion of SDP to take over absolutely and now these base stations are being placed wherever they want, and basically we, their infrastructure, and basically the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia is teleoperates, the biggest profit in Europe is in the Republic of Croatia. Here I am asking these questions just because people are more at the wall, those people who live and who spend the night at their children's window just don't know how to defend themselves from this violence, and the evidence like I said set up a base station where after 2-3. protesting set up that base station overnight, a man came from Australia, Mr. Nikola Crnac invested all his capital that he had acquired for years that he had made home and at night at an old house or something. The unbuilt house was established by a base station to a man who returned about 20 meters, came with his grandchildren, with his family, a returner of all his capital invested in the Republic who he and his wife acquired in Australia and people were frustrated, it was a terrible message to our people who wanted to return that so much disrespect. So this is one essentially EU directive, we're going to bring this and the council for national, for monitoring national infrastructures and spatial data, there's going to be all right. However, I repeat once again the key problem is, the key problem is land i.e. It's garters and cadastres. Here I have a desert debate here, no matter what the private matter is, I just, here it means that there's a whole lot of 40 real estate in one plot, and it says a million, 17 million 700 grand through 9 million plus, and so, when you look at those particles, you see that you've just never been there in your life because 300 years since the Austro-Hungarian niche didn't work in that area. And we have to look the truth into the eyes, the truth in the eyes, I write the property card this I had to write it all down, very hard but in the note, because simply when I squeezed, I don't know thousands of lattices, thousands of jars, thousands, so because the old family of mine lived there, it just didn't get cleaned up, but otherwise we all have to look the truth in our eyes that the space was split into thousands, thousands of pieces. And that's one of the key issues and solutions. So the solution will be in the garter's, i.e. I know that I have that thousand squares, and basically everything is on everyone, and when you come to the catastre a whole different story, you can't believe how much of it you have when you read it. So you can't believe it. Why? Because it's from Austro-Hungarian, obviously it wasn't Austro-Hungarian so we could still be in the cave. I think the key problem is cadastre and grantovnica and that's the unresolved problem and who gives it a solution and if we find a model to solve it quickly I know people now recently clean for their children, for that, but it's such a problem that 3-4 years takes to make one, that the triba sell all this together, to sell, at the end when it clears they won't be able to pay this cost. I know, this isn't just, so it was, we all have to look ourselves in the eye, you're all from some parts mostly in Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora where it stayed with the clay on the knee, it was shared on the mustache, on the word and on the women's line, and it was created one chaos in the space unresolved. I think and I think and that each of you will tell you that one of the main brakes of development, the development of these areas is impossible to solve land, property. Because we have garters, we have in court a whole other catastre, a whole other story, and that's a huge, huge problem. And this, of course, we're going to support that we have in one place, that we have a list, no matter what the directive has, that's all right, but I don't see here to solve the problem. The problem is to solve the ownership, that these books that have been made, so the land books of Austria are not.../incomprehensible/... means 200 years. And very few had changes, and the space completely changed. Not only are these private, but also cities, former municipalities in the state were built without it being drawn up, that it was plannedly entered into these documents, so you have people who own some state buildings or state spaces that were taken away, or I don't know nationalized or I don't know how. Here I have an example of myself writing these vineyards that, there's a miner in Yugoslavia on that land where my, my grandfather, my father had and there's now a miner. He's still running on me, now it's gonna turn out that I own the miner, I'm gonna have to write in the property card that I own the miner, and the land was basically a vineyard 40, 50, 60 years ago, there was a clay extraction for scraps. So absolutely in space is a completely different state than what is in our meaning in land, garland and space is chaos, and we have a lip space and a triba to find solutions. I know this isn't easy to get out now, but we're trying to find the easiest way to show this space exactly the way it is and to allow people to become owners of these lands in their own space, as well as local self-government and regional self-government because in this mess like these rats were created, they're coming out very quickly, they're running a variety of procedures that don't even know about islands and become the owner of land where people are in America, where people have moved out so that it becomes very easy with one, two witnesses and with the help and corruption of the judiciary very easily become owners of this land that belong to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185118	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Geodesy Administration with Associates, we will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Spatial Data Infrastructure in the first reading, as the Government referred to in the procedure. Last year, we have already changed the Law on national spatial data infrastructure adopted in 2013 and last year for reasons to prescribe a way and determine the data collected by the State Geodetic Authority, which is the national code institution, the national contact point for the implementation of INSPIRE Directive. This time, as stated by the State Secretary, this law is amended given that the Council of Europe regulation which then imposes and amends the inspiration of the Directive and refers to the way in which the data relating to environmental and natural protection are reported, and then, in addition, by implementing and harmonising our legislation with the inspiration of the Directive, there is an amendment to this Law on the national infrastructure of spatial data. Otherwise, I was saying this last year, although the basic law was established in 2017, already in the Croatian Assembly in 2007 through the adoption of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, we formed a special head in this law, which was then initiated the procedure in Croatia for the establishment of this very important database or meta-data as they call them through this law, and these targets actually consist of data on the data being conducted in the State Geodetic Administration itself and uniting, if I am not wrong about 35 different data being stored and based on all these locations of certain properties, it is therefore determined at the level of the Croatian State Geodetic Authority as a national contact point. So already in 2007, we established the very national spatial database, and then the council that is changing this law was established, the National Spatial Data Infrastructure Council, and since then, the base has been slowly formed. This was initially based on, I say, the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate and then systematically it was arranged by full implementation of the directive's inspiration in Croatian national legislation. What's important for me here to single out and that's that since then, the State Geodetic Authority as a central state body doing business and actually in charge of law enforcement itself has been collecting constant data relating to the national infrastructure database of spatial data and, as I said, 35 different types of data are linked to the location of a particular property or land for which the database is created. The European Directive itself defines 34 different types of data that are collected in the national contact point itself and we have added another data relating to minefields in the Republic of Croatia. When I talk about this database, the most essential database in Croatia that is held in the state geodetic administration itself, then it is useful and can be served in numerous processes at the level of society and state in Croatia. For example, by the year we are expected to list the population, the list of households in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this database, all spatial data, will be able to serve later in the analysis of the production of statistical data, the printing of publications that will normally occur after the state implements the census. I think that through the census that happens and is conducted next year, and by comparing it with this database, it can certainly improve the use of the basis for any study in Croatia that will then enable the authorities of state and local self-government and would tell the owners and all interested, that then these studies are working on really accurate data that are being conducted here and that are gathering in the State Geodetic Administration. What the Secretary of State mentioned earlier is that the Council of National Spatial Data Infrastructure has been amended by law by law by my law because, apart from the already existing 17 representatives of different state bodies, the DHMZ also includes the DHMZ representative because I think the DHMZ-led data is very important when we talk about national spatial data infrastructure. I've watched a little bit by reading the law and by watching what's going on at the State Geodetic Authority, it's possible to come to the website of the State Geodetic Administration, to open a special website that refers to the national infrastructure of spatial data, and there we can see what we're even discussing today. Perhaps for most of our fellow citizens who listen to us, watch and for a number of MPs somehow only this database seems a little abstract but when you enter these networks and when you see what data, which is done there, then you can see how important this national database is... when he's talking about all the spatial data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through the replicas we have already heard this morning, in fact very few words about the national infrastructure of spatial data, mostly all replicas are about what is really a priority for the work of the State Geodetic Administration and it is important for all Croatian citizens, for Croatia as a state, and this is to finally take care of and approach the systematic arrangement of landowners and catastras, i.e. to take out new national geodetic measurements. And all the replicas that were mentioned and set up the secretary of state referred to the need to finally get rid of and approach the systematic production of state geodetic measurements as a fundamental action to establish an up-to-date, clear, accurate, precise record of both the catastra and the land books, because until we solve these two records, we will indeed always have major problems in the beginning of any investment from the simplest residential facilities to the larger, larger objects to the resolution of infrastructure projects, to the construction of municipal facilities, social infrastructure facilities, etc., etc. I don't think there are nearly any investments in Croatia that are already at the beginning not burdened with unresolved property-legal relations both when it comes to the cataster and when it comes to the land book. This is why the story of the national infrastructure of spatial data is always, whenever it is spoken of, in fact, the most talk about the need to make state-owned, new national measurements. I know that the State Geodesy is planning and working on a programme that would cover a new measure of construction land in Croatia. Let's at least do it. And we expect the Resort Ministry to refer to the government, that the Government directs a programme to the Croatian Parliament that would go after the catastrophe and land book. According to certain data that have been made and analysed in local self-government units on which a complete state geodetic measurement has been carried out then it is seen that only the budgets of the unit of local self-government on which a new land book and a new real estate cadasar were carried out by around 30% are increasing the original incomes of the local self-government unit from the basis of a municipal fee, based on the fact that the settlement of the cadastres and land books are prescribed and the relation of ownership relations to each decent, and the regulation and establishment of the owners of each local self-government unit particle is more accessible, it is easier to send a solution to the communal fee. This increases the income of local self-government units. Not to say that by sorting out property-legal relations on a particular particle, writing down real property owners and in a land book, it increases the significant value of land. This increase in the value of land and the settlement of property-legal relations leads to a greater volume of total property traffic in the unit of local self-government, and then to a tax through the traffic of property that has now been increased, their value because the property-legal property on these particles is then increased by income from real estate tax. So, it is not a story that should go into favour of the approach of making new state measurements, but rather data that can be witnessed by everyone, all the mayors, the mayors in Croatia who, on whose premises the state geodetic measurement is made. Many times here in this assembly, I said that Croats for registering their movable property, and these vehicles were private owners of any company singled out nearly 5.5 billion kuna annually to secure that property. 5.5 billion kunas are allocated annually to secure their movable assets, and the most valuable property that consists of their properties, whether they are buildings, whether they are very little. Since the establishment of Croatia to this day, I don't think we're on the record of two of the most important properties, so how catasters and land books singled out I mean 2 billion kunas. And I say, and the Croats either as owners of their vehicles or as companies, the entrepreneurs in Croatia each year allocate more than 5 billion kunas to pay for insurance and everything that goes when they approach the registration of their vehicles. So it's just saying what our approach is. So with just a little more engagements, I think that we could, in order to realize a large part, make a large part of the state's measurements that it would serve as the basis for making two per se, two per se of the most important records in Croatia, which is the real estate records carried out by the State Geodesy Administration on the one hand and on the other hand the municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm saying it is, whenever we talk about these laws that touch the land in any way, all of our replicas, all of our discussions are primarily tied together then with the need to make a new elaborate, new land books and a new catastra for us by the sea, and that's the situation in the continental part of Croatia. In the large part, both the real estate and the land book are based on the measurement that was made during the time of Francis Joseph and before Francis Joseph was there in the first half of the 19th century. So today, when we're in a number of areas with automatic data processing, with digitization, we've done great steps unfortunately where we should do the most we're still almost at the beginning, I'd say under the beginning because every day that record is getting less and less up-to-date. We have heard before and colleagues of Bulja, it is not only the case of colleagues of Bulja, it is the case of a huge number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia that their property is unsettled, that they do not even know what all the owners are, and in general, what they are listed as land-book owners are not the owners of who knows who they belong to together, as a rule to family members who have not, over the years, kept their records in the land book. There is a priority clear guilt on the institutions of the state, but often the owners themselves do not take enough care of their property, but it does not release responsibility for me by the Croatian state institutions to address this very, very big challenge for me to take care of these two basic records. Here is why I am also using the opportunity to invite the Government to submit a programme to the Croatian Parliament that would include a full, new state measure and a cataster of real estate in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185120	Thank you very much. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr Vinko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185121	Fellow Members and colleagues, namely Directive 2007/2EC of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 14 March 2007 on the establishment of the infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community or the INSPIRE Directive that we are talking about. By law on national infrastructure of spatial data, from our law, NN 56/13 and 52/18, the directive of inspiration has been transposed into Croatian legislation. From this law comes the NIP, our national infrastructure of spatial data whose aim is to make spatial data in the jurisdiction of the public authority from the authorities available in a simple and understandable manner. The State Geodetic Authority is a national point for the NIP and the implementation of the Inspired Directive. On 26 June 2019, the EU Regulation 2019/2010 of the Parliament and of the Council entered into force from 5 June 2019 on the harmonisation of environmental reporting obligations. So it says since the environment is a very broad term, it would be good to know which are the specific areas. Thus, this amended the directive of inspiration in relation to the obligation of Member States to report to the European Commission and, for the sake of that, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the applicable law. That Regulation simplifies and rationalises the monitoring, reporting and administrative discharge of Member States. For example. the provision concerning the national contact point's obligation to draw up a three-year report is amended, and I am undermining three-year reports in such a way as to introduce, instead of making a three-year report, the obligation to update and publish the summary annual report, but where appropriate. So you'd be asking for information on what it's all about. So so far there's been a three-year report and now we have a one-year and mandatory report, but if necessary. What are the criteria for this as necessary? Since consultation with the public on the draft National Data Infrastructure Act was conducted from 22 November to 8 December of last year, and thus no indications of the interested public were received, because then it is really about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, however, I am personally interested in whether or not, to what extent these amendments to the law will result in real administrative redundancies, especially because of one fact, which is why we have a big job next year, namely the census. Here's what I'm asking the promoters to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185122	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak in front of the GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185123	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, directors, associates. So we have a proposal to amend the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, the Basel Law of 2013, 2018 has been amended because of one of the directives and now this amendment relating to the EU Directive adopted on 26 June 2019. What I've already said in the replica, and that's a fact, when anything comes from the State Geodetic Authority and when we discuss it, we're always discussing the cataster and the granite. So this isn't the law that's going to solve anything in the cadastre and the garter, this is a law that talks about something else but that call sirens that when something comes and we discuss it, it can't resist us somehow. In this assembly and I would say in Croatia, ever since we have a state, we have been discussing the problem of catastra and grantovnica. This catastra and garter problem, I didn't resist calling it that either, so I'll just say a few sentences, but I'll really talk about what's the subject of this law, so we used to be in another century, in another country, the property was recorded in a cataster, I'm talking about the former state that was before this, and everybody forgot about the grantine. So you watched what your condition was like in the catastrous, and it was more or less important in the garter. After we got our country, we suddenly became aware of the full power of that word, of our ownership. No one who sits, no one who listens to us or looks at us, and had some real estate, had a problem in the cataster and the garters were always freaked out, eventually took lawyers, these are the processes that lasted for years and the processes that had been solved for years. And we in this assembly every time we talk about anything about real estate, we talk about these problems. And if we continue to solve these problems this way, it won't be good because if we see that we haven't solved this, if these are the many years we need to solve, let's find a model. Otherwise, I am, and it's no secret, a supporter to get one government into a four-year-old project, to say let's go clean up 6% of the construction area, let's go to a special body, especially the agency, a special law and let's go to work it out. And that's not what I'm saying from my sleeve. I'm about to do it a little bit, the geodetics have their own gatherings, and then out of these gatherings they publish the convention papers and in these chambers there are so many good texts that were done by geodites, so someone on the side didn't work, they did geodetics that offer different models. Then I went a little bit and saw what lawyers or judges do to other people, and they offer models. So what's the point? The point is to switch model A and model B, let's say my people, we have 6% of the construction area, let's try to solve it and really solve it, and then we'll figure this out in a different way. We can also copy, Austria had one such model and Austria decided to do so. Now the key question is, is that what we want to decide on, or is it all about messing around, baggage, so you're going to the cadastre, so you're going to the garter, so you don't know where you're going anymore? I'm absolutely convinced and I'll represent it, my people won't, we'll keep talking or some other council will talk about the Austrian-Hungarian cataster, about the Italian cataster, about the grants, we'll have these laws, we'll have to tell the RH has 6% of the construction area, let's do it in one special law, one other way, and then we'll go on the road because as the measurements go on, it's about the measurements, and then when the measurement comes to an end it doesn't correspond to the real state, we're going to drive ourselves crazy and drive the citizens out, of course it's always causing, a debate about the cataster and grunts, a little more intense emotion, but I'm going to go back to this law. We will absolutely vote in the GLAS Club for this law, absolutely the only thing that is right, which is that data is stored, that data is shared, that data is managed, that data of course this directive speaks about this presence of the Republic of Croatia related to other EU members who currently have 27 and what it means, which means these data management, which means data management, which means they will know the data, I can give you an example and I will give you an example of one document of spatial planning, and the most recent document of spatial planning is changes and additions to the general urban plan of the City of Zagreb. So yesterday was a great pleasure, but it was only a victory in the first round, the City Assembly in the City of Zagreb left the Club of Mr. Bandić Milan 365 and its 19 MPs, one of which was not because it was likely to watch what was with his land, so there were 18, all others who were in the town hall did not support the changes and additions of the GUP. They did not support the changes and additions of the GUP, not because they are whimsical, not because they do not understand, but did not support the changes and additions of GUP because they understand. These changes and additions of GUP were made 4.5.g. and after 4.5.g. Imagine one mayor or one club who came and landed on the table 71 amendments and the next repurpose half a million square meters and greenery into the building or the next half a million square meters where the purpose played a little bit like this, a little bit like that. And what's important about spatial data? When asked how many green areas there are in the City of Zagreb, per capita, you do not get an answer. Asking how many realized areas there are for sport and recreation and why we're removing some green surfaces, you don't get an answer. It's spatial data. How many children are going to kindergarten in the City of Zagreb, how many kindergartens we have, and how many new kindergartens we need, you don't get an answer. How many people who work in the City of Zagreb, working hours have changed, you've had working hours from 6 to 2, that's past time, the spatial data you need in the spatial planning process next, how many employees in the City of Zagreb, what are their working hours? When you get what their working hours are, then the conclusion is whether kindergartens, so kindergartens can no longer work in that one shift that is, can't have the same kindergarten teachers working before noon and afternoon, that means either we're going to have to say what I know from 8 to 5, and other kindergartens are going to work from, I don't know, 2 to 8 to 9 in the evening, that's what you get here and you have to know how to manage it and you have to use it in the spatial planning process and so I'm talking about that process if I understand that process, but you can use it in some other processes. Yesterday, a colleague said I will accept this, when the water pipe bursts, of course we can't compare to New York, when a water pipe breaks in New York, then that water line, so it goes up to 3-4 stories, when a water pipe breaks in Zagreb, it doesn't go into the air, it spills out, it means you don't have enough pressure and how someone thinks that a water pipe will plan and build a skyscraper, not all of which is, therefore, spatial data, so all that's going on in space, from how many people in the area of Zagreb go to work in the City of Zagreb, which capacities are water pipes, which are the facilities of children's playgrounds, so that's all the data we need to have, which we need to manage and which we need to use. I repeat, the simplest thing for me is to use it in the spatial planning process because it's something that's basic, I'm trained for it and I've basically done it and I'm doing it, but what's the result of the spatial planning process we all see. So if someone in one city wants to do something in a space that is now a forest space or a forest land space or a meadow space, then they know what the process is, but if they want to plan something, then they need to see from spatial indicators or data where they are near the road, how they can do it, that I have the water supply, that I have the drain capacity, whether it's asking me for a certain reconstruction, what it means to me in relation to the funds and the money. If the spatial planning process imagine you have a good flomaster and a flomaster like this charm, m, s, d, it's not, but if you want to do it right then this law is one of those laws, so the law is one story, and reality is another story. I've been in one part of my life and I've been in charge... if I'm not mistaken I am and I know that since then we've been doing a pretty important story in which we've been praying, so you don't have to physically but that you have contact and that you know that I don't know, now I'm going to mention highways have their own database, so how many cars are passing through, you have JANAF that has its own, so everyone has their own databases and I'm experiencing it as one big closet where they have drawers and each of them has their own drawers, and one of them controls and knows where it is and how to get to something. When you have it that way and when you take care of it, then your jobs are a little bit simpler or a little more complicated because your desires to build something or want to redeploy something will be a little bit easier for you, so let's say, girls and boys don't do it exactly like that, let's see how much money there is in general to equip that land at all. Why do we make new apartments if the number of inhabitants in Zagreb is the same in the last 20 years, so nothing significant has changed. I will use and say, somewhere in the last century there was a spatial plan where it was said that there would be a million inhabitants in Zagreb in 2000, it seemed certain at some point, today it is no longer, regardless of the attractiveness of the city of Zagreb. But you have to have spatial data, you need to know about them, and you need to know what they are and you need to manage them. I'm gonna use the last two minutes of something that I started my speech with today, which is climate change. I think it's the only Mr Trump in the world who thinks they're so-called. climate change and no climate change. Climate change is a fact. When you're doing a spatial plan, the results of the changes that are extremely important are equally important to you. It's very simple, you have a space that's been flooded today and that's never been flooded, somehow it doesn't seem like any kind of construction should be planned in those areas. One of the spatial data is to see where you have slides, so it's the same spatial data and then manage it in a way that where the slides are, it wouldn't be very good to plan a new building area that's just a question of what's and what's with the infrastructure. So you have to have them, you have to fill them, you have to make all your knowledge full, and today we live at a time when we discuss in this assembly, so all possible satellites count exactly how many of us there are, how many of us have blue hair, how many black hairs, how many glasses do we get today in real time. Therefore, in real time any spatial indicator and data can be obtained, and then they need to be managed. But how, do not work out a spatial plan, how not to lead citizens astray is an example of the change and addition of the GUP of the city of Zagreb. And we only won one battle yesterday, of course it will continue further, but it will be another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185124	Now it's Mr. Emil Daus in front of the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185125	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of the State Geodesy Administration with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, the proposal for a law amending the National Data Infrastructure Act and the technical essence itself, the technical component of the law is not at all questionable, and of course we mean greater transparency, the availability of spatial data in one place, which is the basic meaning of national infrastructure. However, in the very assessment of the situation and the basic issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that law-making will take place, you state: “The spatial data in a broader sense represents all data that can be directly or indirectly linked to the location. In many areas of human activity, spatial data is the basis for building new products or improving existing ones. All activities concerning space management at national, regional or local level shall be based on spatial data." We agree with all of the above, I believe all the other colleagues and colleagues except in one thing, the fact is that we haven't really arranged the data yet so that we can manage them well. What I said at the beginning of the replica, we began to rebuild the house from the roof, not from the foundation, and not because the EU is driving us, not because we ourselves are responsible enough to agree first on chaos in spatial data and in space itself, but this is another topic, we are not going to talk about it today, we are going to go back to spatial data. And yes, the truth is, no matter what some colleagues and colleagues say, but the first thing that comes to mind to the citizens of our country when you mention spatial data is the cadastrian maps made in 1820 in the first measurements in Istria during the time, I wouldn't say Austro-Hungarians didn't even exist at that time, during Carevina Austria, so this year we're celebrating Jubilee 200 years. And after that 200 years, we are not yet able to make new complete and digital measurements. Such a Catastre in Istria is based on old measurements that were performed manually on the ground with then primitive instruments, if that can be called. And I hear today I have heard, and in the past, from some colleagues from other parts of Croatia that the situation there is much, much worse. Two years ago, at the conference and the round table "Digital Catastre, the basic precondition of the development of the Republic of Croatia" organized by the HUP and the state geodetic administration, experts stated that the damage caused by the unsettled land books and cadastres amounted to 5 billion kuna per year, so it is billions of kunas that go into the wind each year or that are not coming in and not realized through possible projects. To be graphic, that's the amount I've made in the last 25 years. About 125 billion kuna, practically almost an entire year’s state budget. I don't think it's necessary to be even more picturesque, so turn it into a number of new reconstructed equipped schools, universities, hospitals, kindergartens, homes for older or perhaps more important, business areas with new modern industries. As early as 2003, the National Programme for Land Books and Catastra was adopted, which was called the "Organised Land", which has been 17 years since then. and only occasionally, certain partial measures are adopted and implemented that cannot significantly affect the whole process of taking care of land books and catastras by themselves. So today at the time of digital communications and soon artificial intelligence in everyday life we are not even able to be at the level of public administration from the time of the Austrian monarchy is absolutely, those monarchy from 200.g. which with primitive instruments managed to make the full cadastrian measurement and the cadastrian maps that we are using today. In addition to catastra, what certainly depends on quality management of spatial data is arranged property or in the Republic of Croatia unfortunately unregulated property. For example, last year, a new law was passed in this House on land books that brought certain improvements in the direction of digitisation, information and faster settlement of cases, but instead of reducing the number of cases in courts, a day ago we had the opportunity to read in the media that grantshops in parts of the Republic of Croatia were in chaos and that the number of pending cases in the term of this government increased by as much as 30%. The report on the situation in Croatian grantines shows that it has been since 2016. Instead of reducing the average resolution time z.k. items from 22 to 25 working days. With numbers like that, we just can't go forward. Such a situation in space, i.e. the lack of spatial data, creates an uncertain environment for investing healthy capital and developing the country. My colleagues and colleagues, there are no healthy investments without an orderly cadastre and ownership, so we really still don't have that level of social responsibility, and we really think that it's going to end with us all, or it's someone's interest that there's still chaos in the space, that we still have uncoordinated and uncoordinated catastras and grants, that we still have incorrect and incomplete spatial data, that we still have nothing illegal objects, etc. We need to draw attention from this stage to another situation, we understandably need to standardize the system and combine the data that is now on several different addresses and that is quite all right and that should be supported. But you must know that over the past few years we have lost confidence in the state administration as a true master and we begin to doubt where this is going. We from the IDS Club have already warned on several occasions, not only that there is uncertainty of the investor system, it exists in local self-government across the country because municipalities and cities are no longer sure when the state will suddenly decide that something should be owned by it. It does so by entering legal disputes with cities and municipalities, which contributes to the creation of additional chaos and disorder, but also to the uncertainty in the system. I will give an example from Istria County where the state is currently in charge of more than 200 judicial disputes against municipalities and cities in order to establish the right of ownership on the property that has previously been registered as the property of these municipalities and cities. So, instead of the state bodies and institutions dealing with the situation in land books and catastros, human and financial resources are spent on unnecessary court disputes in order to take away their property from cities and municipalities. And to recapitulate at the very end, that this law and all those who are actually attached to it should first have full meaning, first of all, to make a complete measurement and make a new cadastre that will replace the existing 200 years, to fully regulate ownership and define the rights, but also the responsibility of the owner to his own ownership, thus creating long-term security, and long-term security brings long-term investment, and long-term investment is a constant economic growth and development, and that security and development gives young people motives and wills to remain of new values in their own country, only needs to be set up and settled, and it can be, the only question is whether it is wanted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, territory, so space is one of the fundamental foundations of every country. If we're not in these 30 years. The young Croatian state has arranged its space means that we haven't even arranged that basic foundation or we haven't yet arranged for ourselves, unfortunately, even the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185126	Thank you, too. We will welcome all together students and students of Salesia classical high school with the right of the public from Rijeka, please give a round of applause... Thank you for being with us today. Mr Davor Vlaovic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185127	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice-President of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, here on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats a few words about the Law amending the Law on National Infrastructure of Spatial Data. Well, first of all, we are in line with this law with the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and in this way we implement the Croatian legislation of these provisions which are certainly useful and it is good that in this European Community and we are responsible through the management of space and through the quality of space data and certainly that the introduction of this regulation into our legislation will contribute to showing that we are also a serious member of the EU and that the aim is to quality-sharing of spatial data, i.e. to enable potential interested investors in the Republic, so that they can obtain quality data, I think that it should be and should be the meaning of this and of such laws when it comes to spatial planning and spatial data management. Unfortunately, when you talk to potential investors, they often say that we as a state are over-normmed, we have too many laws, that there are too often changes in laws and that we have an unsettled situation in the area when it comes to grants and cadastre, and that is often defended by investments in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we have very little or almost no green field investment, so here we have to think about it, and that through this law and the bodies that will be appointed, as well as will be defined in the final and protocol of data exchange, we welcome us, in the name of HSS, to go towards the state of space and the management of spatial data precisely to attract investments in the Republic of Croatia, but of course to enable domestic OPGs, crafts and entrepreneurs, as well as local and regional self-government units to have a simpler chance of obtaining documentation, building permits and then to invest. Here we welcome and what was not adopted yesterday by the GUP of Zagreb, the victory is the citizens of Zagreb and the profession in the city of Zagreb, and I think that this is exactly how we have to think when we are planning some kind of spatial plan, when we are planning some investments, that we must consult all interested stakeholders and of course the residents of some garage and the city of Zagreb deserve to be informed about it and have shown that they love their city, and that they also want to be asked how to manage the city of Zagreb and the space in the city of Zagreb, and I think that the only correct shot would be in the future adoption of the spatial plan of the city of Zagreb, that it would be a referendum of citizens, that the citizens in the referendum would be manifested what they want to change in the spatial plan of the city of Zagreb, because many say so it is too professional and do not underestimate the citizens of Zagreb if the professions give a quality presentation of what they want with a particular part of the city or certain area in the city, then that they would be the town, so that they would be the only to know about the town and the town and the town. We welcome, of course, that this national body for information and monitoring of spatial data includes new state bodies, in particular the State Authority for monitoring meteorological and hydrological activities, because as part of climate change and activities carried out at the level of Europe and the European Commission, we see that Croatia is a bit of a helmet and here is one step that goes in this direction to actively engage in monitoring climate change and not only monitoring but also preventing possible consequences from strong winds, rising sea levels, problems with flood streams and flood problems in certain parts of the Republic, which we have seen in recent years that it is increasingly and increasingly pronounced and that we must act in this direction, so we welcome that this state body enters the national body and that it is in one place a set of all these data. And I stress that because we are right through the prism of climate change, we often have problems with floods, with floods and already for 20 or 30 years in the spatial plans of units of local self-government, regional self-government and also in state plans, we have spaces that have been overlooked for the construction of accumulations and retentions, which are designed to rightly prevent damage from these streams of brooks in the area of Psunja, Papuk, Dilja and other areas, and unfortunately the investments are late. This area is reserved for this investment, local self-government, interested entrepreneurs cannot build anything in the area, there is growing chicare and on the other side we have a problem of a stream which every year makes it more and more damage from these mountains or hills from which they descend after showers that are more and more frequent, more and more pronounced and it is just good that we have to highlight this problem, ask the competent authorities and also in this place that Croatian waters and other competent institutions are more actively involved in the construction of these facilities. We welcome, of course, the problem of the town of Karlovac and the prevention of the floods of the town of Karlovac and the wider area, but surely these areas deserve faster and greater investment, and surely it is necessary to consider how to finance these projects and I think that this can be done with EU money and surely that Croatia is late and in spatial planning these facilities should be built because they can also be used to prevent floods and then tomorrow if it is done in quality both irrigation and for increasing agricultural production. And here I must stress that it is good that this body also exists and that the Ministry of Agriculture is involved because agricultural land and state agricultural land is an important resource for raising agricultural production in Croatia without which there is no but, of course, it is important to plan and have quality data and here we call on HSS to finally create order and define whether we really have a million-and-a-half ha of agricultural land or 900 as much as there is now in the support system, what with 400, 500 000 ha that are somewhere swimming and what is especially now a problem for our chiefs and mayors, that suddenly we have a problem of what it is, which are particles in public water good, which are forests in nature or are not forests and that it is therefore late with the call of tendering for the hire and concession of state agricultural land, and here it is also connected with this that obviously the state did not regulate its data, I think of the state bodies of Croatian waters, Croatian forests and that it is certainly not good and that we do not have to provide the information in our agricultural products in the past and to offer to our agricultural products in our agriculture. Also when it comes to changing the spatial plans of municipalities and cities, and related to possible investments in the agricultural zone or industrial zone, often these procedures take too long a year, a year and a half. I think if it's about some pointy change in the spatial plan, then we could figure out a protocol and procedure to make it faster because our goal is a new job and our goal is to produce food in the Republic, at least me and us in the HSS think so. And then when everyone here points out and we have to say that it's unfortunate that we still don't have the grantovnica and catastra state that the data on the ground doesn't match the situation in the cataster and it's often defended by investments and units of local self-government, but also by our farmers and economics. And then when I point out that I have to say that it's unfortunate that we still have a piece of data that hasn't been entered into the cadastre or in the garter and that we need to re-establish the commissions to update the situation now and enter the records. And what particularly bothers agricultural producers if we want to omassive production and circular production then enables them to round up their property by exchanging certain cadastrian particles. But look at the absurdity, then one and the other have to pay real estate tax like they're paying one another and earning income, and in nature they're just changing particles. So here's an appeal on their behalf that makes it on the ground for the state to give up that income and that they can trade those particles for free because if the state does, then they don't have to pay, and if the OPGs do, they have to pay for it. And another problem that is highlighted when it comes to inheritance, an inheritance solution, and if more co-owners are not paid an administrative fee under that one solution than all five co-owners must pay an administrative fee. It has already been pointed out here and said that this part will change, but it is still not and it is still a cost and a obstacle to the state of affairs, and that is why part of the citizens themselves are in the process of settling the situation because it is the cost they cannot bear, and we think that it is enough for us from the HSS to pay an administrative fee on one solution in which five co-owners are numbered. I think that such data and such operational practice must be in favour of our citizens, craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and then there will certainly be a more orderly situation in garter and catastro. And we certainly urge to continue with the land-marked correct procedures, with the state-of-the-art of the Catastrian municipalities, because where co-financing went between the municipality, the county and the state through the state-run geodetic administration, that's where the order was made. I don't know why this has stopped because it must certainly be a priority if we want to manage space quality and if we want to attract investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185128	We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185129	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the law on amendments to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, we cannot mention all the topics that we already had in the debate today, and it concerns both the record and the quality of data in the cataster and the speedy resolution of disputes and everything that bothers our citizens, but of course what bothers them even more and those who would like to invest in the Republic and who are aware of sometimes and the uncertainty of data or slowness of solving certain processes that their investment will not be quickly realised leads them to very often not investing in the Republic. Of course, we will support all the things that will improve the area of spatial data infrastructure and, of course, welcome and certain I would say the recommendations by the European Commission or by the directives adopted that should put Croatia on the sidelines with the most developed countries and those countries where you can fully rely on certain data and ultimately come to the conclusion that you are sure of the data you will receive, for example in the garnery. But it is impossible not to say that, in parallel to quality infrastructure, we must also trust citizens like those who make decisions both at the state and at the level of units of local self-government. Because how people will believe in data and investors in what is in spatial plans or spatial data if it is possible from today to tomorrow to change certain things and make certain decisions that will change both the purpose of land and direct the development of units of local self-government. And de facto after public debates held for years, for example, as was the case with the GUP during the night, 80 or 90 amendments appeared with small interests where these data and these plans and these amendments are submitted to people who should agree that spatial planning will take place on a unit of regional self-government where they are in place. We have had this case for the past few months and days in the city of Zagreb and this case has been stopped by citizens of the city of Zagreb and fear by HDZ and the mayor of Bandic for the citizens' reaction. And when they saw that 20,000 people went out to Ban Jelačić Square, they gave up their petty scams and things that shouldn't be done when it comes to spatial planning, which is to look exclusively at the interests of those who propose or their interest groups or individuals for whom they unfortunately work because they don't work for those who choose them but work for those who are obviously connected with them and push their interests instead of the interests of the citizens and those whose interest the City of Zagreb is primary. On the other hand, I must say that I am proud that the citizens of the City of Zagreb have said a lot of such politics, I am proud that it will simply never go through in the City of Zagreb again, and I believe that this kind of solidarity of citizens, I believe, will be spilled into other parts of the Republic of Croatia as well, so that it will be shed on many other topics where it is seen that those who should make decisions in the interest of citizens do not make their own interests, and that this kind of reaction will be in many segments of our social life. We've already seen some clues, for example, when we strike the enlighteners, we've seen signs of strike related to and referendum issues related to pension reform, and now we see in spatial planning. So there is enough use of Croatian land, Croatian space, the city space of Zagreb for the benefit of private interests. I mean, I think it's time for politicians, and we're going to talk about this under a second point that spends more time in a municipal court or county court in Zrinjevac than in its office it's over. Changes in this type of governance and the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia must finally happen to all those who support them, and there are many in the Croatian Parliament because most of them exist on chips and on people who, instead of spending their working hours in offices and thinking about the welfare of citizens, are carried out by courts, these people are pillars of this coalition. And when we talk about chips today, it has finally been revealed that they are not Bandic's tokens, they are the tokens of Prime Minister Plenkovic. Because these people today support this government and allow these last 6-7 months of the HDZ government to take place in such a shameful way. And so, colleagues and colleagues, we can talk here about all possible directives, we can talk about how we will ensure spatial planning and data security in the Republic of Croatia, we can talk about how in the courts as soon as possible, how to make things more realistic with what is real, but we will not change anything until politicians are removed from politics like the Mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic or, for example, Andrej Plenkovic, who is widely used by the same mayor's services. And that is why I say once again, I support these changes, but we must be aware that in the end only citizens, with the help of those who speak on their behalf, will be able to restore perspective and security to the legal system, security in land books, security in that corruption will not rule Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia. This is what everyone here must be clear and all those watching us must be aware that Croatia must finally move forward. That Zagreb must move forward, that we are the hostages of an abnormal, corrupt, non-transparent relationship between Bandic Mayor and Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185130	Mr. Miro Bulj will have his individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185131	As I said in the name of the club and this is essentially an EU directive, so it's good to know in space what's going on, but the fact that chaos is in space, that it's mainly in our key resources, we don't worry about sustainable development, we have a lot of absurdities, we have where pastures are being violated, that it's forbidden to keep cattle, an example of that triba to include agriculture, it's good that we're now starting to think about it. However, this is not a solution, it is not a solution, I repeat once again what in the last 200 years, from Austria to most of the Republic of Croatia's land books and grantshops are simply not harmonised. There's chaos and meddling in space. Disrespect of the law by teleoperators who set base stations against GUP and ask whether local self-government, for example, is necessary to set up base stations to bring GUP, let's abolish this GUP, if teleopers can do whatever they want, and their biggest profit is in the Republic of Croatia. Well, we don't need to look so hard at foreign teleopers, if they don't respect the GUP from the example of.../incomprehensible/... where they are, it's proven that they've been set up no matter what they've been up to for years, I've been protesting at the time, now I've not been a parliamentary representative, where overnight they're setting up people base stations, without their knowledge, without consent, I've been making a legal proposal, I've been giving a solution, to get the building permit back, and even in the premises of the entire Republic, we have numerous stands, protests against such behaviour. And as for the Adriatic, the coast, the concreteization of the disaster itself, but I mentioned my own example, 200 years, something that was inherited to me, when I see how many particles you have in millions of parts, you just don't know where it is, it's about chaos in land books, mostly in the Dalmatian Zagora, it's too heavy, but it's also on islands. Imagine where people went to America, left 100 years ago from the island, so there were these examples that when the court settled two, three witnesses came into possession of these lands because these people were not present, they had no address, and simply by letters the entire land on the islands was very valuable to, who knows who, so we haven't solved the underlying problem. The list is good, it's good to know what we have in space, but the question is when we let teleopers boast and have the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, 42% where they're literally mocking us, where all over the Republic of people, I repeat, protest, where they're contaminated with this radiation, but this is not what I'm saying that we stop or stop the development of a digital network or mobile network, but I'm saying for reasons why space is simply threatened, the breach of the spatial plan in my town of Sinj is obvious. If someone puts a base station on the chimney, it's no longer a chimney, it's a carrying pillar of the base station and strengthens it, and in the industrial zone it's, without any consent, so we let them do it without a building permit and, of course, whatever the city of Sinj and the council opposes it, we have that when the Ministry of Finance he opened up games for happiness, the owner of that space, which is why, and the house is 10 meters away, and in the GUP, it says, and I'm interested that you answer, if it's a breach of the GUP if it's written in a spatial text section that 50 meters, it's forbidden to set up base stations to the building land or the last building that it's a breach of the GUP if it's 10 meters, it's a violation. I send an inspection to the inspector, they answer that the Ministry of Health, that's what I said is absurd, that the Ministry of Health says that there is no, that radiation within the frameworks is legal, so I don't question you, my son, my Chief Inspector Andrija Mikulić, gave those rays, do you, on radiation, ask if the spatial plan of the city of Sinja, GUP? Then it's best and it's fairest when it's this kind of bullshit to put an end to GUP, why so much money is spent, public debates, when it's done in the space of whatever anyone wants. I am now referred to as the valleys dealing with livestock, karst areas, Dalmatia has been named after, by, by the shepherds, Dalmatia, and that they can't hold in the junk, that the Croatian forests have become owners in the karst region for centuries, hold cattle, endure cattle, and this little sow which produces little domestic goods, are now being persecuted and the Croatian forest to meet some conditions for the EU, this was quickly written by this, what sent that the forest is the owner of that land that was local, I don't know municipally, the Croatian forests have been taken over and now we have few people in karst, in karsts that they've been dealing with cattle mostly cattle, so I don't know how common people, so we have 2/3 of RH empty. And when I talk about concreteization, it's, it's familiar to you, but mostly the key problem of this story, this is a directive, this will be a list in one place that the local community knows about kindergarten, where this is, di, but believe me, it's chaos about ownership relations, I've told my example, thousands, thousands of particles that I've never seen are, or knows who, hereditaryly 300. Of Austria-Hungarian, no one is in the cadastre of touch, if it wasn't for Austro-Hungarian, I said it would still be obvious in the pits, I don't know why there's nothing to do, they say there's not enough people. We have a problem of agglomeration in Sinj, now the state administration has come to the county and if all the particles are not cleaned up around 2000, the Cetinski end, it's somewhere 670 million, only Sinj is about 270 million, the EU project is mostly part of, local self-government and ministry, we can't clean up particles if it says missing people, so whether it's important we're missing people, and the project is going to fail, I don't think it's going to be done until 2023, but the fact is that there are two people working there, for all these consentes... Where is the path of agglomeration, draining, sewerage, so we can't make fun of it, so that money will have to be returned to the EU, so it's about the Split agglomeration, the Castelan, so it's 2 billion just down the kuna, we need people, no matter what is declared strategic, this, what, alt triba someone comes, so we see the co-owners are thousands of people on one particle, so it's not a simple project, we're going to lose this little money that would tribals protect our river Cetina or not known our coast from the sewers down there are densely populated, we'll lose those projects, but if these projects don't end up to 2023. we'll be in trouble and local self-government literally enter the Cetina river, and so it's not a good thing to say, but the middle city of Sinja is going to the canal canal canal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have money, but therefore we can't particles di go to solve the project, where the route goes, means thousands of problems, small problems that will cause a huge problem, and we are at the bottom of the withdrawal of funds from the EU, at the bottom, the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of the withdrawal of funds from the EU right now, in this period of 2014, financially, if we fail these approved agglomeration funds, if we don't get serious and local self-government and ministry that these projects are completed, that these projects are being obtained, that they can't be booked, that the project can't start if everything isn't solved, so we're in trouble, so I ask you in the Ministry together with the Ministry of the Environment, Croatian Waters, and the projects that are huge, I'm talking to the Split swimming pool around 2 billion kuna, 2 billion kuna, so we're mostly approved from the European funds with certain shares of the Croatian Ministry, the Ministry of the Ministry, and the Croatian waters. If we look at the side like this, and we bring only directives to bring them in, and we say we have solved the problem of what we voted for, if we don't solve this problem of grantines and land books, catastras, where it's a completely different set, here I'm telling you from experience, there's a leaving debate recently and I see with people who do, trying to solve this problem where the course of agglomeration goes, we're in a huge problem, we're not even going to finish those projects that are, which are billions, about the survival of people in that area, about the protection of rivers and drinking water. So let's get serious, where people need to be, that's where you hire them, and you don't need to send them there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185132	Mr. Sagar will be replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185133	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, although a little outside the scope of this debate, is a very important subject, serious from the issue of the point of view of the profession. One important thing you said and it should be managed even though this is not a resolute ministry but it should be taken care of, large projects in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about the projects of disposal and water supplies have taken up significant allocations of funds from EU funds. And there are most problems, most delays, most of all technical other difficulties before these projects are achieved. On the other hand, smaller projects that are being implemented in time, cannot, can't come out, can't withdraw those resources that are important and this is a key problem in the Republic of Croatia, and another issue that is raised with these large agglomeration projects is particularly the issue of a growing number of populations, and how these projects that now have to and will change in their structure will have sustainability in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185134	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185135	Well, I would agree that this law, in essence, changes to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, is simply an EU directive, but the question is, what is in reality, we can vote this out, it's a European directive I say, but what is in reality? In reality, the funds that have been withdrawn from the European funds for agglomeration systems, I'm just talking about Dalmatian... In the Split-Dalmatia 2 billion kuna, the Cetina region of 670 million will be at risk because by 2023 the project must be completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They haven't cleaned the land yet. So that's where they're going, so that's the key questions. That these funds that we have drawn from the funds do not remain neutral and will eventually have to be paid for by Croatian waters, water lines, local self-government, that is a serious problem. About this problem we need, I ask you once again, don't let this agglomeration money go to waste for the protection of rivers and the construction of sewers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185136	Time. Thank you. Mr. Ante Pranic is on his way. He's gone. He's losing his right. And finally, on behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank everyone who participated today in the debate, although most have talked about other topics, related, close to this topic on the agenda today, not to be surprised that in many areas of human activity, spatial data is the basis for creating new products or improving existing ones. All activities related to space management at national, regional and local level are based on spatial data. The challenges that arise with availability, quality, organisation of availability and sharing of spatial data are common in many areas, as well as in state administration systems. The resolution requires measures dealing with standardisation, sharing, sharing and use of spatial data. The same or similar spatial data are often collected and maintained in several different places in the system of state administration, preventing their transparent use with a direct negative impact on the budget at country level and similar problems are solved by the establishment of national spatial data infrastructures, which is regulated by this law, and I would draw your attention to the fact that there are 189 network services and 40 NIP entities on the network portal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185138	Thank you very much. We have... Excuse me, sir, we have two replicas, Mr. Maras first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185139	Thank you very much. Mr. Uhlir, after this debate of yours and the bill on amendments to the Law on National Infrastructure of Space Data, what he would like to point out here once again and ask you as a competent in the Ministry of Civil Engineering is, are you aware that by the law that you've ruled out or thrown out on the street protected tenants, at this point thousands and thousands of people after their rent has increased in apartments, I can't pay that rent, are you aware of how many thousands of people are in trouble? Your solution that you offered at the time doesn't yield any results, people are on the verge of despair. And what I can tell you here is that in a position where you leave power or when another option comes into place, that this law is going to change explicitly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185140	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, your answers to all these arguments and replicas have simply fallen behind. I would once again point out what happened in 2003 was adopted the National Programme of Land Books and Catastrophe and we called it "Organised Land" and asked the question where we are today after 17 years because we have not received any report. And regarding this law, since the national contact point is the State Geodetic Authority that will be required under this law to provide certain reports on the implementation of maintenance and development, to shorten the NIP for the European Commission, how will you also report to the Assembly and is this an obligation to establish all this data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185142	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185143	I appreciate the question. So now it's all on the web pages, it's public and everyone can see the data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185144	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185145	Proposal for a law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 835, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 88 votes are in favour, the conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185146	As we decided this morning we will now conduct a two-point unification hearing: - Report on the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and - Report by the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the National Lawyers in 2018 The holder is DORH, based on Article 40. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on War Veterans. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? We have Mr. Attorney General Drazen Jelenic with us. Here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to request a break on these points of the State Attorney's report for 2017, 2018, because the key issue in the Republic of Croatia is the non-trust of citizens in all judicial polls. Here's because I've been up in 2017, and I have a criminal application here against the CNB and the HANFA because of everything that's been going on around Agrokor, because of the loans that have been uncontrollable, because of the bonds used without cover, so here they are now three years soon, I don't know what's been done about it. Otherwise, when I entered local politics, I was most interested in the problem when the Homeland War was money for weapons to defend the Cetina province in '91. A year. I raised your previous colleagues were both Bajic and Mr Cvitan, and then I was with the Auto Transporters for the auto transport robbery and I asked Bajic then what about the money, I also raised a criminal application four times, with the money that was intended to defend the Chettin area. This is not an attack on Emil Tedeschko or anyone, but I ask and the people deserve the Cetinian landscape known, when the money to defend the weapons in the '90s was more important than the bread was loaned to Meteor Paper owned by the Tedeschi company, that money was never paid back and if he could get a payment. For years I've been looking at the local level from the municipalities, the cities whether the money that Meteor Paper took back as a loan in '91. One million and six hundred thousand marks. I never have the information that she's returned. I've been up four times since 2010, and I've been here four times. I don't have any feedback, and those who fought in the Cetina region, the bare-handed and the victims of the dead defenders deserve to know where the money for the weapon went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185148	Thank you, Mr. Bull, you've made yourself clear. You're looking for a natural consultation, aren't you? Okay. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185149	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club HSU, SNAGA and independent representatives and New Politics, I ask a 10 minute break to consider once more the fact that the report mentions statistics, however, the state lawyer and the DORH did nothing against Croatian banks although they are being robbed by the citizens under the nose of the Croatian banks. First, citizens were robbed by unfair interest rates, then by the CHF currency clause, all of this has been legally established. Infringements of banks have been rejected, law enforcement of banks has been sought because during 2013 instead of contracts for interest rates and parameters have been voluntarily determined by Croatian foreign-owned banks by Croatian citizens for around 20 billion kuna. This is one of the biggest robberies in the history of the Republic of Croatia, thus damaging both citizens and their budget home and economy economies and the state budget. Neither the CNB wanted to do anything about it nor the DORH, several times criminal charges were filed, a request was filed for the prosecution of banks, the state's attorney's office to this day, to do nothing against banks which, in my opinion, should have been prosecuted in court, as did the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of France when he found that banks there were violating the right of their citizens. For this reason, I am asking a 10-minute break to reconsider the situation of a particular problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185150	Anyone else want to take a break for the consult? No, I don't. I'm taking a break for the consultation by 12:30. Thank you. MEETING IN 12.17 HOURS Now, after the consultations were held, Mr. State's Attorney, Mr. Drazen Jelenic will have an opening, please, opening statement. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Here you go. On me? No one started talking, no replicas now. [[No one's started talking yet.]] Here's to starting with, they're replicas for later so we don't forget. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185152	Thank you very much. Dear, Honorable Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament in this short presentation, I will present the most important emphasis on the work of the state's lawyers from the 2017 and 2018 Report. The new Law on State Attorney's Office on the basis of which the 2018 Report was drawn up entered into force on 1 September 2018, the earlier Law on State Attorney's Office prescribed a different content of the Report and, therefore, the 2018 Report was significantly different from the Report for 2017 and earlier years, but I will seek to bring them together to the greatest extent possible. The 2018 Report first shows the work of the national lawyers through the performance and quality indicators applied by the Commission for the efficiency of the judiciary of the Council of Europe and on the basis of which the work of the courts is monitored. The paper is also that it provides insight into the work of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, into the scope of their work in total, and by types of cases at all levels, municipal, county and state. That goes for both the Jump and the DORH. At the end of 2018, there were 39 public lawyers, all state attorneys responsible for criminal and civil-government cases other than USKOK, which was established by law as a special state attorney's office. At the end of that year, a total of 1,772 people were employed in all state attorneys, which is more than 1% more than a year earlier. The State's Attorney's Office acted on 368 state lawyers and their deputies, 25 more than in 2017, and 157 less than is systematised. There were 169 U.S. attorneys, which was 30 less in '17. years and 214 less than those which number is systematicized. For the first time at the end of that period, 13 legal practitioners in the State's attorney's office were employed after a longer period of time. 68% of state's attorneys are women. Collection data on the movement of cases in state attorneys and performance indicators on cases show the movement of all criminal, civil and administrative cases in state attorneys in three years, in '16, '17. And in '18. State's attorneys are in '18. had a total of 252.323 items which was 4% less than in 2017, and of which more than 72,000 old items, therefore from, remained unsolved in '17. and nearly 180,000 new items were received. We solved a total of 186.986 items so that something over 65,000 remains unsolved and by 10% the number of pending cases in the state's attorneys. On the basis of the data provided by the CTS, an assessment of cases, active cases before courts and other public-law bodies in which the State's attorneys act and represent the Republic of Croatia has been carried out. These were 215,500 thousand in 2018, which is 18% more than in 2017. The performance indicators that have now been applied for the first time and shown in relation to the work of state lawyers are based on the number of resolved cases in the state's attorney's office and the number of resolutions that were really present at work, we are talking about 86% of the completed posts, and they result in a period of '16. Until '18. The rate of update increased from 91% to 104%, continuously increasing the number of resolved items per resolver from 248 to 266 and reducing the time of resolution. Therefore, the number of resolved cases is influenced by the fact that on average 10% of resolvers would not be present at work, and that the resolutionrs worked in 2018 on more than 416,000 items in total. Since '16. Until '18. the number of cases received in both departments, so both criminal and civil, is slightly but continuously reduced as is reflected in the absolute number of cases solved or pending. The performance indicators for all types of objects and at all levels show that the rate of urgency at all levels is higher than 100% and at the same time reduces the time of resolution. Although the number of resolutions so far at municipal level in 2018 was the smallest, the rate of update has been the highest in 2018, respectively. 105%, and 314 items solved per solver. I need to draw attention to the municipal state's attorneys solving 80% of all cases in the state's attorney's office. When observing certain types of objects, the rate of urgency and duration shall be different, of course, from what is conditioned by differences in the complexity of the items and the rules of procedure. The expected time for solving criminal cases against unknown perpetrators is the longest because they are kept open until old. In all other criminal cases, the rate of urgency is above 100%, in all civil and administrative cases it is also an up-to-date rate above 100%. In 2018, USKOK received 491 items and there are no significant deviations from that number from the previous year, but it should be noted that the number of pending cases in work in the USKOK is constantly decreasing. In proceedings before courts at the end of 2018 There were 352 jump cases with 987 indictees without conviction. In 2018, it is 102% and is approximately the same as in 2017. When we talk about the work of the DORH, so the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, that work in these 3rd gs. It did not significantly oscillate, the rate of update was in 2018. 104%, and the time of resolution is shortened. In total, more items were solved than were received. For the work of all national lawyers in 2018, funds totalling 354, 758 thousand and some kuna were granted, in particular it should be stressed that more than 600 million kunas were granted for the work of the DORH, of which even 70% were intended exclusively for the costs of representation in international arbitration. Working of criminal departments in 2018 states that the state's attorneys have received 35154 criminal charges against known perpetrators and 26848 charges against unknown perpetrators, which is approximately 8% lower compared to one and the other. During 2016, a total of 46% of criminal applications were rejected in the '18s. Far fewer rejections of police criminal charges, such as 18%, while about 70% of reports filed by others were rejected, are primarily thought of as citizens. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A solution has been taken to carry out an investigation against 3719 persons, which is 33 investigations higher than 2017. As regards the duration of the investigation and the rare public criticism of the alleged longevity of the investigation of the figure in 2018. They say that out of 2615 completed investigations in that year, 92% were completed within 6 months, and within 12 months there were 8% more, so almost 100% of the investigation was completed within a year. State attorneys filed charges against 16102 persons, almost the same as 2017, while the defendants confirmed 96.4% of the charges in 2017. 96.5%. The high percentage of the decisions on the confirmation of the indictment points to the conclusion of the decision on their withdrawal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the first-degree verdict was passed by courts compared to 15435 adult, 91.3% of the convictions, and around the same level of success as the year before. In this regard, it shall be in the courts responsible at the end of 2018. Other 26766 defendants without conviction. In the structure of fines imposed on prison sentences, a total of more than 3000 minors were sentenced, almost 1/3 of whom were replaced by work for the common good and the highest number of conditional convictions made up of almost 75% of all convictions continued. Here we should also mention the legal possibility of a consensual settlement of criminal cases such as the Institute of Agreement of the State's Attorneys' Office with the defendants, we have received such 402 convictions or the raising of the defendant with a criminal order which we have done in 6308 cases. Both can be used more frequently than current practice, especially in regular jurisdiction, according to my assessment. The best example is jumping items in which out of 270 convictions 61% were made under the agreement of the parties. The most common reason for the conclusion of the agreement is a faster and more efficient completion of the process, a significant reduction in the costs of the conduct of the procedure, and thus a major savings of budgetary resources. In 2018, the total asset benefit of more than 100, more than 178 million kuna was subtracted, about half of the legal organisation's budget for that year. In doing so, we have received another 8 million kunas of awarded property legal requirements from the Republic of Croatia in criminal proceedings. The municipal state's attorneys also filed a total of 456 indictments in infringement proceedings in which the state's attorney general appears primarily as a subsidiary prosecutor except for infringements under the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion. During 2018, state attorneys conducted a total of 35 and a half thousand pieces of evidence, so every 15 minutes one, and attended over 50,500 court hearings, so 20, 230 hearings every day. When it comes to certain types of criminal cases, it is, of course, presented in written reports. I would like to emphasise that special attention is paid to the work on war crimes, corruption and organised crime as well as on economic crime, as well as on increasingly recent forms of hate speech and crimes against the environment. Let me say something in a few words about each of these types of crime. When it comes to war crimes, I would especially like to point out that this is about continuous work in the last 30 years, and to which continuity shows the results of work in 2017 and 2018. I'm talking about proceedings against almost 3,700 people and charges against them over 2,100, regardless of military or nationality. At this point, we have 594 defendants with no conviction. Despite considerable difficulties in obtaining evidence, all quality information is being verified and significant efforts are being made to obtain evidence and will continue to work together with our partners, police and SOA. COOPERATION in the area of corruption organised crime is doing a very good job, putting forth a lot of effort and ambition and the results that are being achieved are still at an envious level. But as it comes to complex cases, you can't expect results overnight, because the work is burdened by a large number of applications that are simply unfounded, so the structure of the decisions taken tells you that 92% is a rejection. It is about citizens' applications against officials who are dissatisfied with their work or decisions and who consider them illegal and corrupt. All relevant suspicions of corruption are carefully checked, but BIAK is not a supervisory body that is often forgotten. For a crime of the so-called crime. The hate speech, or public encouragement to violence and hatred, has been received in over 100 applications in these two years, 67 rejection solutions have been adopted, 20 indictments have been filed and 14 convictions have been received from 11 convicts. For a relatively large number of rejections, the reason is that the colloquial hate speech and in a criminal legal sense are not the same. When we talk about the work of civil administration departments, it should be said that the state's attorney's office is taking legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia through legal representation of the Republic of Croatia before domestic courts and public authorities, representation of property disputes before foreign and international courts through the extrajudicial settlement of disputes and legal opinions on certain legal matters. 69,700 new items were received during 2018, which is almost the same as 2017. The legal representation of the Republic of Croatia before courts and administrative authorities concerned more than 51,500 new cases, and by analysing judicial decisions in litigation according to the value of the dispute, the Republic of Croatia succeeded with more than 65% of the claims. In addition, according to the power of the State Attorney's Office, 272 transfers that are largely related to administrative disputes, unfortunately due to limited capacity, we are unable to accept all the powers that the departments would allow us to represent them in these disputes. In the structure of court cases the most represented were executives, then bankruptcys which were 6,100 and litigation cases with, there were over 5,000 of them. We participated in nearly 30,000 hearings and declared 2,500 legal medicines. As regards representation before international and foreign authorities, I am talking about at this point 9 arbitration against the Republic of Croatia and the total value of the claims is over a billion and 120 million euro. In these proceedings, the DORH shall coordinate the work and arrange a defence strategy with law firms representing the Republic of Croatia and provide legal support with regard to the application of domestic law, collect and analyse facts relevant to the process and carry out coordination with all domestic state authorities. The costs incurred by the management of international arbitration are extremely high, and are made up of the fees of a foreign law firm, fees and costs of professional experts, translation costs of very extensive documentation and the costs of witches, arbitration and courts. When we talk about non-judicial dispute settlement, we have received almost 8,000 such requests in 2018, and we have concluded over 1,600 court settlements. This institute represents a significant and effective way of resolving disputes where skills and quality of work are expressed. It significantly decreases, reduces both direct costs to lawyers, interest, and indirect costs to the work of courts. When you add up 5,000 agreed settlements in the last three years and you put it in line with the framework criteria for the work of judges, it turns out to be an annual standard for the work of 33.5 judges. The number of settlements may be higher if we are provided with financial means to implement the art before making a decision on a settlement. Also to save in disputes, the state's attorney's office gives legal opinions on the draft contracts because, in this way, early participation in such opinions, judicial disputes are prevented. Such opinions in 2018 were 3,300 and in '17. 3,900. So these were the most important points in the report that will be discussed today, and the result of the dedicated work of all officials, officials and deputies in the State's Attorney's Office. All the data presented in both these reports give me the right to claim that the state's attorneys were also in '17. And in '18. She kept a high level of up-to-date and quality at work. Of course, further organisational, supervisory, educational and personnel measures will continue to be raised especially in the work on certain complex types of criminal cases such as war crimes, corruption, organised crime and complex civil administrative matters using all of our available procedural rules and institutes. In addition to carrying out their work independently beyond any external influence and professionally, guided exclusively by facts and law with the aim of achieving justice, whether or not anyone is satisfied with the decisions taken by state lawyers are now more than ever before aware of the questioning of their work. And that's okay. The transparency of the work is welcomed, but we must all be aware that the conduct of the state's attorney's office in criminal matters, but also in civil cases, to the greatest extent by law, is secret or at least unpublic, and often we are not able to satisfy the public's curiosity. I thank you all for your attention, and I will gladly answer your questions in accordance with the law and participate in a constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185153	Thank you, too. It's not an enormous number of representatives present in the assembly, but that's why 2/3 of these MPs are replicators. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185154	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinić here is nice to see you after years of doing this job and finally having a report at the Croatian Parliament. My question is very simple. It means 2014 and '15. In your investigation against Mayor Bandic, you found that the owner of 2 covered apartments like DORH, is now 2020, so it's a 95 square-square apartment in the Circles, 78 square-square-square garage on Horvacan road and 94 square-square-square-square-square road whose owner was allegedly his wife. Six years after that, the processes are still going on. I wonder if Mr. Bandic can dispose of these apartments and how can you even be mayor of Zagreb in your experience to acquire such property that you do not report? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185155	You want to answer, you want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185156	What I didn't say at the outset, which is that I think I'm almost convinced that the assembly is not a place to discuss specific subjects. Whether or not someone can acquire a certain property may be and should be the subject of interrogation for all of us primarily by tax authorities, and if the acquisition of property is the result of a criminal offence then, of course, the competent authorities of the detection of criminal offences, and then the state's attorney's office as a criminal offence, as a law enforcement body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to risk a warning here because simply Article 238 is injured, 238, I'm going to risk a warning because I have no other way, in a country where six years of justice, the attorney's office and everyone else can't get to the river around these properties, in a country where the mayor of the City of Zagreb can obviously acquire such property that no one knows what way he acquired and I as a representative of Croatian citizens. I have to ask you that in the hall because they expect me to. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Maras.]] Here's what I think we should say here and that's what all of us should fight and these colleagues of HDZ who are all very supportive in the City of Zagreb. [[Mr Maras, Mr Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185159	You risked your warning and you get a warning. Next on the agenda is Mr. Klisovic. You've received a warning, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185160	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Jelinic, you said in your statement that you have introduced key indicators of the performance of the state's attorney's office, I welcome that. You also said that you respond quickly to corruption, including doubts about the attorney's office itself, if there is one, and I welcome it. But trust in the Croatian judiciary is very low by Croatian citizens de facto the lowest in Europe in terms of the public of any European state. My question of what are you going to do to increase trust, get the trust of Croatian citizens for their work because it is crucial for the democratic functioning of every state institution, and especially in this context, what do you think it is to make the doubts that citizens have that sometimes procedural errors in the opening part of the procedure work and on purpose so that in the later parts of the process they are the basis of lawyers accused of liberating their clients' guilt? Here, the question is, how do you plan on hitting that kind of thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185161	Answer, Mr. State's Attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185162	Thank you very much. So let's start at the end. As far as procedural peas are concerned, as far as I know, but I would not now generalise, errors in the work of the state's attorney's office have not led to the abolition of judgments on the one hand, on the other hand I cannot accept the fact that they are doing the same on purpose in order for the future to actually end the proceedings in one way or another. As far as the perception of the work of the judiciary or the state's attorney's office is concerned, the first thing I wouldn't talk about is the part that doesn't concern the state's attorney's office. I think my job is as a top state attorney, which would be said to be cleaned in my own backyard. In other people's courtyards or other courtyards, let those in charge clean up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185163	Time, Mr. State's Attorney. Thank you. You'll be able to do it in other answers. Mr. Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185164	Thank you. Your Honor, State's Attorney. I am not going to ask a question of specific cases in this replica now because obviously you do not want to answer it, but it is interesting that those who are now attacking you about Milan Bandic are actually those who created him, so Milan Bandic is a child of the SKH, he is a baby of the SDP, and now of course he has the support of HDZ and should be aware of that when they talk about Milan Bandic. What I would ask you here as a question, that's what you as the State's Attorney's Office can do when you pick up, or when you press charges, that charge is confirmed, and then we have cases that last for years, do you have any tools here, what can you do when you're already talking about that you might not be responsible, but actually because of others you have a worse perception?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185165	Here you go, Mr. State's Attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185166	Can I answer that? I can. So my time is up, so I'm not done. I'm not saying that only others are responsible, we on our part education warnings, conversations, and what's most important to me is that my fellow prosecutors be and remain judicial officials, which is that the subject is not looking through numbers but looking through people who are inside. What we can do and do, basically procedurally nothing, possibly write some kind of rush to court, but these rushes don't commit anyone in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185168	Dear Attorney General, good afternoon. Tell me about five minutes ago you said that the assembly is not the place to discuss specific problems. Of course, the assembly is where specific problems should be discussed because we see exactly how the DORH works. I will now give you three questions as a representative in the Croatian Parliament to which I demand an answer. The first question is, the State Audit found that Tomislav Debeljak was purposelessly spending HABOR's money, and I wonder if anyone from HBOR's office was invited to the DORH? The second question is, eight months have passed since the death of Cynthia Palma, whether Ivica Kirin was involved, and where did 17 million kunas from the city of Virovitica go missing? And thirdly, who robbed Pevec, why was Pevec kidnapped while others were forgiven? Are the laws the same for everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185169	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185170	So I did not say that Parliament is not a place where problems are not discussed, however, but concrete subjects are important differences. On the basis of a concrete one, we can conclude in general, and in general, it can or must be a problem. So compared to these three questions of yours, which relate exclusively to specific subjects, I can't answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185171	Mr. Vanity, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185172	Your Honor, Attorney General. The latest report by the European Commission last October on the full application of the Schengen acquis for the Republic of Croatia lists a number of indicators of extremely high perception and state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia according to surveys conducted by the Eurobarometer and others in our area. Some successes of the DORH and the judicial system are being discussed, but in particular, according to their opinion that I quote "the ability of the DORH to fight economic and financial offences remains limited". I would like to ask you, I'm sure you have better information, which is why the European Commission considers that your options are limited personnel, materially, in some other way because this is important? This is a grade that actually indicates that it is on a good track, but that you don't have enough options. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185173	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. State's Attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185174	It's hard for me to answer which is why someone else or a third wrote something about a report like this, but I said today, and I think it's in all the reports so far. So we're working on a 2001 systematicization, and we're short 150 people. We are making every effort to maintain this level of awareness, this level of quality, and I would personally like us to be even more quality. There is no lack of will and desire, I assure you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185175	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185176	Thank you very much. Your Honor, State's Attorney. Please try to explain to me two great illogicalities. The first is, according to what you said, the indicators of your work's success actually show everything positive, and at the same time had a particularly negative view of the citizens' success of the judiciary, we sank on the scale of the corruption perception index, so there is one disproportionateity. And other illogicality, how do you feel in this Croatian Parliament at all, when will your report be decided by the majority who save the chips of a USKOK defendant, former ministers who are the subject of an investigation or officials who are in court? So how do you feel about such an environment that decides on your work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185177	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185178	As for perception and the result of work, obviously perception of the public or at least what is presented as perception of the public, does not correspond to real results when we look at them through statistical indicators. Perception is obviously based on several important items, conditionally more important, which are media-exposed, which are written, which are read about. Personally, I think that in these cases that we're talking about, the State's Attorney's Office has done its job in quality, I've now responded, we can't really influence the course of the proceedings and on the other hand we have the procedural laws that we have. The first degree, the second degree, the third degree, the extraordinary legal remedy, the constitutional suit, and then we're back to square one again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185179	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185180	Thank you, Chairman. Dear State Attorney, here you present a report from 2017 and 2018. Why just now? Unfortunately, Croatian citizens do not trust you and do not grace you or the fact that it has been implemented and never sanctioned conversion and privatisation. Ivo Sanader acted as Croatia's ruler and was followed by local sheriffs at all local levels. The rule of law was deaf and blind and immune to all their illegal activities. Keep that in mind when you have a report back in a few years in this High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185181	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185182	As regards the 2018 and 2017 reports, the State Attorney's Office submitted them within the legal time limit, that's all I can say. As for conversion and privatisation, in the reports, in both reports, there is one very good part that elaborates the situation in which we are at the moment. Also, in 2018, an unlawful verdict was reached in the Hypo case for conversion and privatisation but despite the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the State Attorney's Office continues to work on these cases. Of course, the cases are decided by the courts and they will make a final statement whether our work was in vain or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185183	Thank you, too. Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185184	Thank you. So, Your Honor's Attorney General, can you tell us what the practice of your office is, therefore, regarding the precautionary measures for the defendants, so to which the indictment has been confirmed? If you remember, in 2018, a month before Zdravko Mamic fled to BiH, I asked you a representative question about what precautions you take towards the defendant since I had the knowledge that he has dual citizenship, so in the context of the indictees who are also some mayors, what precautions are you taking towards people who have dual citizenship and are confirmed to be accused?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185185	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185186	When the indictment is confirmed, the measures shall be taken by the court rather than by the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185187	Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185188	Thank you. Honorable lawyer Jelenić, Croatian banks were illegally convicted in 2014 because of unfair interest rates, in 2018 due to an unfair currency clause, during 2013 they illegally did the parameters in interest rates, you were informed about it, the State Attorney's office in fact, not only you but also your predecessors, you were informed of all these things, you were asked for prosecution, at the same time the banks were conducting proceedings against Croatia in Washington, I ask you why the State's Attorney's Office has not initiated a judicial procedure until today, a court case against the banks for robbing Croatian citizens for about 20 billion kunas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185189	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185190	It is true that we have arbitration procedures and the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia in these arbitration proceedings. Why no criminal proceedings or any other criminal proceedings were initiated, you said you didn't stand for me but that it was before, but I think the State's Attorney's Office as an applicant with extensive reasons gave you an answer. I don't have that answer here, you probably have it, but the reasons why it wasn't initiated are listed in the answer to you, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185191	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185192	My colleagues and colleagues, Attorney General. In your debate, you stressed that your work is increasingly under the influence of the public, which I think is good because it is necessary to restore the confidence of the citizens in the judiciary because they are in the most pain of injustice right now. However, you also stressed that it would not be about individual cases although I believe that sometimes it is good to give accurate information. Here I have an article titled, an ex-cop, a prostitute's service used by the top of the police department, attorney's office, the judiciary, politics and sports. So we're talking about the process. the subject of elite prostitution. It is mentioned that the affair was also attended by state lawyers. Now my question is, are they removed from service? Thank you. If that's exactly what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185193	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185194	Excuse me, since when is this article? I don't know that state lawyers would be involved in elite prostitution, and if you have any knowledge of specific names, you can also check and see if it deserves some kind of sanctioning or tight responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185195	Thank you, ma'am. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185196	Thank you very much, esteemed state attorney in your opening statement when it comes to arbitration, you said 3 sentences, first that arbitration exists, second that large financial resources are needed for them, to activate, translator, expert and everything else, it would be good to know in 2017 and 2018 how many arbitrations have been completed and how they are completed are you obliged to actually protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia, we know that some arbitration has just begun, but we know that some of them have been completed, some have completed something more successful, slightly less successful, and all of them are difficult in large amounts when it comes to EUR, so it would be good for us to hear from you how much you saved EUR's RH or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185197	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185198	Two arbitration proceedings were concluded, led by the state's attorney's office, I just want to point out that the state's attorney's office did not represent the Republic of Croatia in all the arbitrations against the Republic of Croatia. In one arbitration, it worked, and in the second arbitration, it partially worked, but financially, to put it this way, failure, we are talking about arbitrationist Gavrilovic, for the Republic of Croatia it was a very small, very large claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185199	- Mrs. Crescent. Chicotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185200	Respected chief attorney, inaction, slowness, inequality of conduct, these are the characteristics of the state's attorney's office that you're in charge of. Honorable and brave people hitchhike and many objects end up in drawers strewn by powerful men, and chaos corresponds to those who live and prosper from chaos. What is the system of the state's attorney's office look at Marjan and the symbol of Split, you don't take and do for decades, you don't protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and you're paid for it, you receive, you don't do the job. The State Inspectorate found in these reports, which we are talking about today, that 23,000 were illegally cut trees and that this corresponds to the criminal part of the devastation of the forest. The state's attorney's office doesn't protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, you don't carry out protection, you don't implement the protection of Marjan, and the law is clear, my question is when will you start acting and doing your job? that the State Attorney's Office is a subjugation of Croatian society [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185202	So, the objects are not in drawers, the objects are done, they are in the intensity that is possible and that is appropriate, let us not forget that the state's attorneyship in that entire chain is not the only body that works on such or similar types of objects. As far as Marjana Forest Park is concerned, if we're talking about protection, I think it's a forest managed by the local community, and the state's attorney's office is not represented in civil administrative matters of the local community alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185203	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185204	Thank you. The Honorable State Attorney, in the report, and here you have confirmed one important fact, you have made it very clear, so the Law on the Depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from the Conversion and Privatisation Process, which took effect in 2011. in fact, it is not enforceable in practice, despite the decision and not only because of the Constitutional Court's decision in the case of HYPO, so you clearly state that there is no even chance that in the future this law will live in practice. April 26th will be exactly 30. Since the law on the investigation of origin of property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property was put into effect, it has been indicative that between the 2nd rounds of first elections in the Republic of Croatia this law is adopted and entered into force on 7 May, it is clear to me why this was done then and it is now clear why nothing related to the origin of the property and illegally acquired property, and now I am asking you as a state lawyer, is the law on origin of the property needed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185205	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185206	... No state attorney is a legislator. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Politics is implemented, if we are talking about the state level, which is then reflected also in legislative, legislative work, parliament or HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185207	The parties, more parties than the state parliament as such. Miro Bulj, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185208	Thank you very much. State's attorney, as I said, I know you're having a hard time talking about it, but meet your predecessors and what made me into politics. To deal with the activists is my finding that the money was meant for weapons to defend Cetinski's late 1990s went to Meteor Paper's property, I asked for years and demanded to say the bill, where he returned the bill, it was a loan, it was more important weapon than, than, bread, from, so the gorilla is the entire Cetin province, I know that you do not want to answer, neither Bajic nor Cvitan, I know that you are appointed together with SDP and HDZ, I know that Tedish friend with Milanovic, with whom everything is not. But I'm interested in where the money for the guns is, for the defense of the Cetin area, it's what those dead, dead, raped, burned, that that money was invested in the defense. I'm sure the Perun dam wouldn't fall, thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185209	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185210	Dear Mr. Bull, you asked me how much I remember on the board. And that's fine, but you also appreciate my answer. You as the applicant of the application if you are not satisfied with the answer you received from the State's Attorney's Office,... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I think you got the answer but good. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You may at any time at the competent national attorney's office, check what's wrong with it and make an examination of the case file and, if you are not satisfied, file a written complaint to the senior state attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185211	And if there's no answer, he can check, right? Normal, good. ... Take it easy. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185212	Dear Chief State Attorney, a large number of DORH court disputes lead against municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia for the account and interest of the state. On the basis of the DORH's decision, this state is registered on the property to which municipalities and cities are situated after the reconstruction of '93. to register the state without informing the municipalities and cities and then the cities and municipalities are referred to court disputes to prove their property. This is the first problem in my view, and the second problem is even bigger where municipalities and cities that have taken plots according to spatial plans and were listed as owners of the 90s to 2000s, today there are disputes to be conducted by municipalities and they have to pay these properties. So I'm asking you, are municipalities and cities, local self-government an integral part of this state or, in some way, a new form, a new form of nationalisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185213	The answer... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185214	Thank you very much. So now I should actually go into every single object and see what the state of things is. I can only tell you what my thesis is, or my way of looking at it and the message that I send to my colleagues at lower levels, which is the state, the local community in the eyes of citizens is actually the same though it is not but in the eyes of citizens. And wherever possible, try to settle disputes in an extrajudicial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185215	Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185216	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. Of course I'm disappointed if we're discussing 2017, 2018, I'd like to hear what you did last year. You said here that you raised efficiency to 104%, if I remember correctly, and that's good. Long ago I heard you don't have the right conditions to work, shamelessly you don't, you should have, of course. There are 1501 people missing, an even greater shame for the state that it has not strengthened and that efficiency towards economic and other crime is more effective. Well, the people lost their trust not only in you, in the whole state and politics, and that's the problem of this country. Efficiency must be everywhere, and even in this House if we are discussing 2017 and we have not now discussed 2019, what happened yesterday, to hear how it is done and how it is. No, we're coming back and it's not positive for the public or for us MPs and especially for people who are watching and watching what we're talking about. I know it should be more efficient, and that's probably what you want, too. I won't challenge your work but let's be faster. [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr. Misic, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185217	Thank you. Answer, do you want to answer? ... No, you don't have to, no, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Last line, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185218	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. In its 2018 report, the Ombudsman actually touches the Croatian State Attorney's Office and says that the citizens have sent about 77 questions about the State's Attorney's Office and about 232 through the Ministry of Justice are, in fact, concerned with resolving criminal charges or complaints related to the resolution of criminal charges pending their statute of limitations on the one hand, and, on the other hand, also complains that the citizens are also complaining about inappropriate treatment and communication between the citizens and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. It might be a good idea that at this point, if you could answer that question, did you respond to any of the things she put in her 2018 report? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185219	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185220	So, I don't believe that citizens are complaining about the State's Attorney's Office because we, therefore, are talking about the roof house, very rarely receive parties and we don't have that communication as do first-degree state attorneys. If we talk about 400,000 and some cases only in 2018 in which the State's Attorney's Office participates, of course there are possible complaints from citizens on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. All these complaints are being approached very seriously. As far as communicating with the Ombudsman is concerned, I think it's the basis of her five premises to say, in terms of dealing with migrants, that she's allegedly not being held accountable, and if I may say so, and for the next week I arranged a meeting with the lady because we have a lot of common topics to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185221	Time, thank you. We're done with the replicas. Does anyone in the name of the board want to speak? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first of all, is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and will speak first Mr. Grmoy and then Mr. Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185222	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Attorney General. Reports on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2017 and 2018 have hundreds of pages and statistics, and Chief State Attorney Jelenic finally signed under the conclusion that the state's attorneys, I quote, "have maintained a high degree of urgency, quality and success and thus completed their constitutional and legal task". Statistics are not a confirmation of the quality of state lawyers, and Mr Jelenic's conclusion is to push his head into the sand in front of a catastrophic situation in the Croatian judiciary whose true condition does not show the praises of Mr Jelenic but defeating the European Commission's indicators of political corruption of the judiciary and the indicators of the authorities in Croatia are relatively relative to the fact that it is only perception and that the situation is not bad. Today we are reviewing the 2017 and 2018 reports, so I will not highlight the recent examples in which the DORH has shown a misaction over which citizens are disgusted. We can hear attacks here today from the opposition's ranks, from the ranks of the main opposition party, but they are the ones who supported you. My colleague Grbin advocated your appointment so that their criticisms I don't think we can understand credible ones, just as we can't understand credible criticisms at the expense of the Constitutional Court because, together, HDZ and the SDP have elected in the Constitutional Court, served politicians who have no credibility and who unfortunately make scandalous decisions. You said here today that we don't have to deal with specific cases, but only on specific cases and examples can we show and show what your work really was like. I will highlight the case from 2017 and 2018, which I spoke about here in the Croatian Parliament on many occasions, I wonder why you as chief state attorney are asking the question of your colleague Bulju why he deals with one topic, why he deals with Emil Tedeschki? Because there's no action, no epilogue. And the epilogue is not because Emil Tedeschi is a friend of Zoran Milanovic, because he is good with Andrej Plenkovic. Here I see that there is something here that my colleague Beljak may be solving with us the issue of bringing charges against him because of statements he made, and as far as the liquidation is concerned... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185223	Speak to the public, don't speak to Mr. White and don't treat your colleagues like that, please. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...it's okay, if he bothered you could say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185224	I will therefore point out the case of 2017 and 2018 by means of a criminal application in October 2017 and closed in September 2018 by the Prime Minister’s intervention which he confirmed on the same day by rejecting the application. So it's about the application of illegal spending of state money in the United States and Australia as well as the cover-up of the Foreign Ministry Inspectorate. The report was rejected after all facts in the case were found by the suspect chief inspector at the Christmas ministry, and the DORH refused to listen to the applicant's report by diplomat Sablak. A few days after the intervention of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the service, Sablek, who has been defending himself in court for years against charges that he filed unfounded charges, although the State Audit confirmed that Ambassador Paro had made contracts and paid the state millions in Washington by breaking the rules and was at the hearing before the Parliament's Anti-Corruption Council that the ambassador's wife had received salaries at the consulate in Sydney where she had not been working or worked but had been with her husband in Canberra. A recent scandalous 2016 e-mail from the 2016 inspector, in which several diplomats warned that they were silent about Sabek's application to break the law in Sydney, was also received by Deputy Director Maria Vukko, who claims that the Christmas inspector did not determine the facts of his own criminal responsibility even though the documents confirmed the opposite. You have been personally informed of all this, Mr Jelenić but the DORH continues to refuse to listen to the Sabelak diplomat and to give him insight into the file necessary for defence and fair trial. Minister Grlic Radman refused to give the Anti-Corruption Council an insight into the file and travel orders from Australia, and Chief Inspector Christmas could not remember who signed the travel orders at the hearing. Do you know who and on what legal basis signed the payments and travel orders of the ambassador's wife while she was in Canberra with her husband instead of at her post in Sydney where she was assigned? Answer the Croatian public that without corruption in your body in DORH it was possible to reject the report when it was discovered that Consul Petrusic paid salaries to the wife of the ambassador to Sydney where she was not even staying? You dropped that criminal charges. How could it be rejected without corruption in DORH when it was discovered that Ambassador Paro was paying state millions to Mr Konstantinovic by means of illegal contracts? Without corruption in your body is not possible. Mr. Jelenić DORH is obliged with equal attention to determine the facts that go in favour of the defendant, but also those facts that burden the defendants, even when it comes to longtime prime ministers' friends, means even in that case. I will work to ensure that the next chief state attorney does not carry out political guidelines, but that he fulfils his constitutional and legal tasks. This report is therefore not worth the paper on which it was printed since it does not answer these key questions, and neither do you intend to answer these questions today, which was visible from your opening statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185225	Thank you very much. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185226	Thank you. Allow us to continue our presentation on behalf of the club to say one thing that no one seems to have mentioned to me, which is actually the fact that we report on the work of the state's attorney's office are starting to discuss almost regularly not for many years but for two years. So, instead of what is the supervision of the role of this Croatian Parliament to discuss key bodies and institutions every year after they submit the report, we are basically already having a debate on them every two or even three years, here tomorrow will be the HRT Work Report for the 3 previous years we haven't discussed. He said there in April 2018 that since we had not yet discussed reports for 2015 and 2016 that it was no political message but the dynamics of parliamentary work were such that these reports had not come to the agenda. It is difficult for me to accept the fact that such was the dynamics of parliamentary work, which would be any problem for this Croatian Parliament to work one day a week or a whole week so that we can discuss the reports of all those institutions or bodies whose reports we have to discuss each year. It is now actually happening that we again have a two-year report on the work of DORH and that actually here I am more than 4 years in the Croatian Parliament and this is the second time that the report is given by the attorney general. And of course it's not, it's not his fault. I want to warn here on behalf of the club and ask that it be given to the president of the assembly to respect the supervisory role of this body and to discuss all reports once a year as planned. In this report of yours that we are looking at, in fact, in a package of two years, and with the change of the State's Attorney's Law, a huge number of statistical figures has been listed, it would indeed be impossible in these few minutes to look back at everything you have listed on the 180 pages of your annual report. So allow only some key figures that seem relevant to us. During 2018, it reported that state attorneys received over 35,000 criminal applications almost 9% less than compared to 2017. Strangely, therefore, if we had no small one, I would say a significant decline in the number of criminal applications in 2018 for which we have official data compared to 2017. Of that, almost every other criminal application was rejected. And about all the last 3 years for which data were given in this report, 47% in 2016, 47.8 in 2017, 46% in 2018. The following data show why this is happening. In fact, when you look at the structure of criminal charges, you can see that in 2018, police filed nearly 16,000 criminal charges against celebrities approximately at the level of 2017, while others were primarily citizens, but perhaps some other authorities who filed criminal charges in 2018 filed slightly less than 18,000 criminal charges, which is almost 3,000 less than in 2017. So, having fewer criminal charges is the result of less citizens reporting. But why would I say that? Because they follow the other data that might offer an explanation of why it is. According to what you're writing in the report, the largest number of criminal charges rejected by the State's Attorney's Office are those submitted by the other entities, and you yourself state that they are primarily citizens. So almost 70% of criminal reports of categories outside the police have been rejected. It therefore states that what nearly 18,000 criminal charges have been filed by citizens and some other entities, more than 12,380 have been rejected. I'm quoting over 70% again. And you are now stating in your report that the reason why police criminal charges are good and high-quality reasons, is justified, and therefore the DORH treats them as a rule, very few reject them, and those who submit to the public are, therefore, some of the damages, victims of those who, as a rule, do not support their criminal charges with evidence, and often have some questionable motives when they file those criminal charges. When it comes to criminal charges going towards USKOK here, the picture is actually even worse because of those applications filed by citizens and those other subjects over 90% were rejected. So, in the work of the DORH, you rely almost, almost, almost, well on the criminal charges filed by the police, almost everything other citizens submit, and some other bodies might say that it is generally rejected for the reasons you state, but you also once said in an interview that the public does not have any feedback on why the state's attorney at certain levels rejects citizens' applications. I honestly find it difficult to understand that they are generally unfounded, dissupported by evidence, flatulence, with some controversial motives, that these are the issues of people who complain about judgments, the actions of officials, etc. etc. We have a lot of knowledge, and we can't talk about individual examples, there have been very well-founded criminal reports from citizens who, for example, are councillors in local representative bodies, who have very good and quality knowledge of possible criminal acts, and I'm not exactly convinced by much of what's known in the media that all these criminal reports deserve to be rejected by the DORH, but there is no feedback. We don't really know why this huge percentage of criminal charges was rejected without any further explanation because the fact is, and perhaps because citizens and have less and less confidence, but not only in the judiciary, but also in the state's attorney's office, because if they file less and less criminal charges, and that shows your data, if 70 or even 90% in the case of USKOK are rejected, then they're also asking whether there's any point in filing criminal charges, but then you're just depending on the police, but the question is whether the police themselves can bear the burden of fighting corruption and all other criminal acts. Equally, some data on criminal sanctions really deserve attention, namely what you say in the report, since we can commend you for the number of confirmed charges in a very high percentage pot 90%, it's an undeniable data that's very good. Of course, everything that happens after that in years when we have court proceedings that are often more than 5 years old, and some more than 10 years old, in fact, that information about the number of confirmed indictments fades into perceptions and citizens because, ultimately, up to the one confirmed in fact, to that final verdict is a terribly long way, and we don't actually see that rightful verdict often, and when you finally have a verdict, then you see that criminal sanctions in the Republic are extremely mild. Namely, looking at 2018. In the case of USKOK 246 convictions, 101 prisons, 100 paroles, 44 work for the general good, be careful about jumping cases. And when we talk about a total, total statistical representation of all convictions, then you actually have more than 14000 convictions, that the sentence of prison was imposed in relation to something over 3000 persons, of which 1,000 were replaced by the work of the general good at large, and the sentence of parole was over 10500 persons, so that you actually of 14000 convicted persons only ended up in prison, of 14000 sentenced to prison sentences only 2000 were sentenced to prison and who were indeed in prison, and that they were not replaced by the work for the common good. You will say that it is, of course, the policy of courts that is then confirmed in the higher courts, but we must say that this is a completely wrong policy. Such sanctions are certainly not dissuasive, nor these for, for, for, for lower courts, therefore particularly at the municipal level, and when we talk about these cases in the jurisdiction initiated by USKOK, and that is what does not send a good picture and message even when we have judgments. There are fewer indictments in the work of USKOK, you explain that in some cases it has been in certain cases and a number of indictees, but still 2016. 437 charges, 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 256, is it just a random trend in the drop in the number of indictments because of what in some cases has been more accused in some earlier years, but these are figures of statistics that still do not indicate that the image is good, I do not know what the figures for 2019 are. Because we didn't see it. The picture is, therefore, at least in some of the numbers that we've presented, because the space for it is no longer going to have certain results when you file charges and code, at their confirmation, but Later the results aren't that good. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185227	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Marko Simic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185228	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Attorney General, the Honorable Advocates and MPs before us for the discussion of the Reports of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work and operation of the State Lawyers in 2017 and 2018, and before I go to the metrics or before I refer to this Report, I would like to respond to the allegations of distinguished colleagues who, both in replicas and in their discussions on behalf of the Club before me, mentioned how long they were waiting to discuss the Reports in the Croatian Assembly. Well, I would like first of all to remind you that in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we have changed the Rules of Procedure on our work and that we have introduced in this Rules of Procedure a provision to discuss all reports at home or on interested committees, and that only exceptional reports are discussed on the Committee's proposal or on the reports that we have taxed in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, also at the plenary session. So this debate today is actually the second debate on the 2017 Report and the second debate in the Croatian Parliament on the 2018 Report. If we take it as not another debate, we will also take it as accurate information that we have not discussed at all some reports discussed only in sessions, therefore, at meetings of interested or parent committees. Let's just remember what parliamentary debates looked like and the agenda before we changed this Rules of Procedure, there were weeks in which we only discussed the Reports, and after we discussed the Report and reached a conclusion, it was positive or negative, actually for institutions and institutions there was absolutely nothing going on. I therefore believe that this change in the Rules of Procedure, the business provisions, the acceleration and change of the dynamics of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the recreation of the agenda has actually contributed to the much acceleration of the dynamics, and that certain points that are of more important interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia before they come to order, that we are discussing them in a better connection with time. As regards the other reasons why the Reports are being discussed today, we had here in 2018, we will also see the appointment or selection of the main state attorney, which certainly contributed to the fact that, in the future of the work plan of the Croatian Parliament, this point comes at the beginning of 2020 on the agenda. As for the 2019 Report, I believe that it will come to the Croatian Parliament about the month of April, if I am not mistaken, so have the rest of the reports, so here we can expect this report. At the Committee of Justice, we will discuss this report when it comes and when the conditions for discussion of such a report are obtained. This, I will now look back at the reports that are before us, these are the Reports for 2017 and 2018. These reports are comprehensive and exhaustive, content and concisely drawn up, provide full insight into the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but differ significantly in the review, analysis and presentation of the data. This, they are not just a set of facts, figures, statistics and tables, contain a review of the planned activities and steps that are intended to be taken in a certain period of time, they bring numerous indicators that, at the beginning of this debate should really be said more favourable than they were in previous periods, and thus, through this prism of results, should actually be observed this Report. We note an increase in urgency and an increase in the quality of the work of the state's attorneyship as a whole, and in the follow-up of the debate we bring, I bring a review and analysis of the activities in the through, period in question, although seemingly related reports are important and different. In April 2018, we witnessed the election of a new state-leading, new state-level attorney, with the duty of... Until then, Mr. Dinko Cvitan, and the newly elected attorney general, Mr. Drazen Jelenic, took office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the beginning of the term of office, all professional capacities, as is evident from the 2018 report, focused on facing a number of problems this body faces in its work, from working conditions, outflows, departure of prosecutors from the DORH, lack of human capacities, spatial capacity, professional, professional staff, trainees and everything else they encounter in, encounters in the work of the DORH. As it is visible from the report at the very beginning of the mandate, certain assumptions, objectives and order of steps that should be taken, which would lead to a more competent judiciary that will enjoy the trust of the professional and general public, although this is really too high a goal, but I am sure that the perception of the public as it is today has justice in the Republic of Croatia does not really correspond to the real situation, and we, as politicians, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and in our discussions and exhibitions, we really need to strive to speak, not only the truth, but to speak in a way that will be a critical reference, but certainly a way that will be encouraged for, therefore, in the repair of work and for, therefore, better work of the state's attorney and all institutions as a whole. As the end of the term of office of the Parliament comes, after three years, it is important to highlight also the contribution of the Croatian Parliament and all stakeholders who arrange, therefore, with their work and activities the areas in which the DORH is moving, so in this debate I tried to give an overview and activities done in the Croatian Parliament. But let's move on to concrete activities taken just to improve the operation of the DORH. The activities are which govern the state-law function in a high-quality and functional way, which ultimately represents a presumption of better and better-quality protection of the state and of all its inhabitants as well as a presumption of creating a better society. As regards the rules governing the conduct and powers of the State Attorney's Office, it would point out to them that during the observed reporting periods, in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, there is a great activity of the legislator. The justice ministry has launched a number of activities aimed at strengthening and improving the work of the state's attorney's office. In 2017, there were intensive amendments to the rules which had an impact on the work of the special criminal departments of the State's attorneys, and in particular I would like to highlight the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Penal Code, which provided for a number of new ones, some new criminal offences and the Law on Criminal Procedure, which set deadlines for the prosecution following the completion of the investigation and for the purpose of better quality preparation of the indictment, especially in complex cases which require longer for the full and quality analysis of the evidence. As I have already stated, it is evident that the data shown in the report on the work of state lawyers in 2018 differ significantly from the data shown in the 2017 report and earlier report. One reason is the entry into force of the new legislation. On 1 September 2018, the new Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council entered into force. These changes in the service are greater, in the service are more effective and create conditions that make the work of the State's attorneys more transparent and closer citizens. Of course, the other side of that process, which required, in a particular section, adaptation to continuous education and the work and organisation of the State's Attorney's Office, should be kept in mind. The developments begin to be achieved in both organisational and humane terms, including in projects directed at users of judicial services. The capacity of professional and efficient action depends primarily on human resources. Analyzing this, we see that the number of employees at the end of 2018 was 1,772 persons employed, which is slightly more than 1% than in 2017. One of the priorities of the attorney general is to improve the working conditions of individual state attorneys. During the earlier years, the problem of inadequate and insufficient work space that does not meet the demands of modern justice was often shown here in the report. As regards the spatial conditions for the work of state attorneys in 2018, it is above all necessary to highlight the continuation of the Ministry of Justice's engagement to address the spatial needs of state attorneys and to ensure more appropriate spatial capacity for work. We see that further employment is under way, the improvement of the system of continuous professional training and the introduction of the possibility of performing student practice in state attorneys. In 2017, the relocation of USKOK and the penal department of Zagreb's municipal state attorney's office to new more adequate premises was also achieved. Also in 2017, all state attorneys are equipped with new computers that have replaced all of the bills with an operational system that does not support the work of the CTS. We see that he's trying to solve the problem of hiring a trainee. It is evident that 13 trainees have entered the system, and in reports for 2015 and 2016, and this has been detected as one of the most important, important problems facing the main state attorney's office. The year 2018 is the year in which a significant step has been taken towards the realization of the electronic file and the electronic receipt and dispatch of the file and the transition from paper to electronic business of state attorneys through the procurement of certificates for electronic signatures used for all state lawyers and deputies. During the previous periods, there were difficulties concerning the pooling of statistics between courts and police with state attorneys' statistics, and in my debate on the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia on two occasions, I called for a similar system, so that a way could be drawn up so that the data could be monitored in parallel to monitor the effectiveness of the entire system, and not only, therefore, the state's attorney's office, in particular the courts. In 2018, the IPA 2012 project was completed to strengthen the capacity of the human potential of the state's attorney's office, whose implementation lasted from February 2017 to August 2018. The project includes the integration of state attorneys' information systems with other state bodies' databases, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. In accordance with this and by following these activities, they have been implemented and, it is evident that training for working with analytical tools has been conducted and I hope that we will see in the 2019 report all these tools and capabilities, and that we will be able to keep an eye on the situation in the entire system rather than on systems separately. For the first time in 2018, the subject report shows for the first time the work and quality of the work of state lawyers through the movement of performance indicators, namely efficiency, independence and quality applied by the Council of Europe's Commission for the Efficiency of Justice. The performance indicators based on the number of resolved cases in the State's Attorney's Office and the number of resolutionrs who were actually present at work show that the rate of update is increasing in the period from 2016 to 2018 as well as the number of resolved cases per resolver, while the time of settlement of the case is shortened. The rate of updates and we can track it in 2016 was 91%, in 2017. 99%, until 2018 we have 104%. The time of settlement of the case is reduced from 143 days in 2016; it is gradually shortened in 2018; it is 128 days in 2018. Furthermore, the report combines data on the work on criminal and criminal cases and the presentation of decisions taken through the results of the work of state lawyers who received 35,154 criminal charges against known perpetrators in 2018, which is less than 3,437 registered persons in 2017. This represents a kind of decline of almost 9%. In the context of specific legal areas, I would also refer to the area of war crimes, in 2018 there were 45 applications for war crimes. We can also see revitalised criminal police relations as the main partner of the State's Attorney's Office in the conduct of criminal proceedings and state's attorneys, which was one of the central objectives of the new elected state attorney and once again shows us how important it is that systems are complemented and that they cooperate, have better communication. At all levels of the State Attorney's Office, the rate of urgency is increasing and the duration of the proceedings is shortened. The presented data for county state attorneys, USKOK and DORH points to the same positive trends and conclusions. At the level of municipal state attorneys, it is seen to reduce the inflow of new cases, in the county state's attorneys, oscillating the number while USKOK and DORH have a uniform number of cases received during the observed period. The movement of the USKOK case indicates that the number of items received and solved does not oscillate, but the number of pending cases and time needed to resolve are continuously reduced as all indicators confirm. The analysis of state attorneys' work data in 2018 shows that the inflow of new cases compared to 2017 is lower by 6% while the number of cases solved in the State's Attorney's Office is lower by 1%. At the end of 2018, the number of pending cases was reduced by 10% compared to 2017, while the number of criminal charges in which the perpetrator was not detected was reduced by 4% compared to the year before. It should be concluded that the DORH, as a single judicial body at all levels and in all kinds of cases despite the problems encountered in its work, has achieved a high degree of urgency, quality and success in fulfilling its constitutional and legal tasks. For the efficiency of the system, it is necessary that all actors and stakeholders within the system are built, perfected and gained experience because the continuity and stability of the system is a prerequisite for achieving the principle of rule of law and functional and free society. Positive trends in the functioning of the judicial system should be promoted and this is one of the ways in which we will at the same time change this perception of the public that we can evaluate by different methods but it is not good today and is not at an enviable level, so I believe that all stakeholders in society should promote positive trends and, therefore, on the basis of this, the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and, in accordance with the opinion of the Government and the conclusion of the Committee of Justice, will accept both reports on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2017 and 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185229	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark Taritash will speak on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185230	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues, we have a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2017 and 2018. When I was sitting there in my seat in this assembly, listening to the opening statement and the debate and everything else, I asked myself a question that had nothing to do with this report, imagine making a decision that we couldn't bring our cell phones into this assembly. So I do it, I list cell phones, portals and everything. Would that mean that there would be more or more of us, or there wouldn't be as many of us now or it would mean that we might be listening to each other, so if we didn't try to repeat what they said before us, or if we tried all kinds of attitudes or some kind of story of our own, it would be convenient to say that for a week we have, so I'm doing the same thing, I'm taking my phone, I'm reading everything on the portals, I'm sending messages, so I don't think of any way to say anything here because I'm the same thing. I wonder what she'd look like, I can't get the impression, this is where I can say what it would look like to say three days a week no one's going to get in with my cell phone. It would be nice to see what it is but to get back to this topic. So we have two reports, we have one report from 2017, we have another report from 2018. When we discuss reports, I always find it convenient and I like to watch it in continuity because only from this continuity can you see how things change and everything else. It's a little harder here because we changed the law in 2018, and then it's said that reports should be written differently. In fact, it is very difficult to discuss the report at all in February 2017, in February 2020 and that, I can agree not to blame you, you delivered this report and we received it in the Parliament on 26 April 2018 but on the agenda, the President decides how it goes on the agenda, therefore, and before and now, it is the decision of the one who is chairing when it will come and what we will discuss. Equally, it seems to me that your decision that caused a little dispute is that individual cases don't comment, I understand why you decided to do so, then you would go into debate one to one, and it would be difficult to end it further but let's somehow we are in the debates actually going one step further and I would like you all together, the State's Attorney General has been defined by the Constitution as an independent and independent judicial body that is authorized and obliged to prosecute perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts, to take legal action to protect the property interests of the Republic and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and rights. So it's something that's defined by the Constitution and later defined by the laws and that's how it is. But when the State's Attorney's report comes in, when the attorney general comes in, it's hard for us not to open up a debate that goes in one part and goes much wider and that's the perception of the public that's connected to the judiciary. So it's one thing for all those who participate in it to have, participate in it, are deep into it, and often think that people who look at the side to look wrong, but reality is what the perception of the public is, that's reality. We can think about someone looking wrong, but this is reality, the Croatian judiciary is relative to public perception compared to everything in the lowest possible branches when we really had judgments, when we introduced a syncope or when we had judgments when that bear dog was convicted of barking and it was forbidden to bark, it became a perception of the public of our situation in the judiciary, and it became a perception of the public and you, therefore all those who are here and there is simply not good and it is simply not a way to go. Through these reports, especially this 2018 report, we have part of a report that is quantitative and we have a part that is qualitative. When we have this quantitatively, it has certain indicators and these indicators talk about which direction it goes and what it looks like. You're here and through the report, and even when you lied about two facts, there's almost not a single report that we have a chance at a plenary session to discuss, that this report doesn't point to two facts, one fact is I have too few people and another fact I have too little financial resources, we hear it every time it comes here and I believe it's an objective state, but there should be one word of my people let's see what we have to do here. I'm sure that people who work in the state's attorney's office, people who work at USKOK should work in suitable spaces, must be, so those basic elements must be possible and feasible, which is that they have a suitable space which is, that they have appropriate computers and everything else that really, when we all like to brag and how many of our e-citizens, everything else, so it's a basic tool for working, a code of someone you give to work to write, and you don't give him a pen. As far as people are concerned, we have what we have, we have what you can get on the market, you have as much as you decide to deal with it at all, and they will decide as little, even more to do with it if it's a bad perception. So you have what you have the way it is. Here you said in, I think there was a replica of one colleague, so we have a systematization from 2001, who's guilty of being systematization from 2001, so you have some tools that are in your hands, you have some tools that are subjective, you have some tools that are objective, you need to change these objective tools, and I have to say that I am also a citizen of the Republic and as a representative of the City Assembly of Zagreb have filed a report on the name of the club and I was at USKOK just the moment they moved to new spaces, about a week before they moved to new spaces, I'm not sure, so this building looks good to me, I'm an architect, but I'm not sure they'll be adequate, but they must admit that there the colleagues who worked were extremely pleased that they had the opportunity and they had come into new spaces and said we have at least the possibility to sit us in the rooms and to work. But I will look back a little on what was the application, so Advent, the age of Advent, the Advent we have in Zagreb, Zagreb is perceived as the best possible city in which this Advent is the best and then we have, I have no newspapers, a few days were not comparing about that for 19 houses that in the time of Adventa, the city of Split will lease more on its budget than the City of Zagreb will for 218 homes. In doing so, there was no secret and no one at any time denied that in the sublet of these 218 advent homes, there were mayors, there were also, someone got these houses which witnessed in certain processes that are being conducted against the City of Zagreb, we delivered what was possible to colleagues from USKOK, started all this together and will be interesting to see where it would end. So when we talk about work, when we talk about justice, it's one convenient object that seems to me that if we want to change the perception of justice, the general way in which people, is people going to say a little bit they gave there, they delivered something, so the subject is valid for years, I give up. It's a convenient object that would be very interesting to see that at least something is done with this case, so until the next Advent, but we'll see where we are and such objects that open actually talk about the state, about our justice, about how people perceive us, talk about how they experience us. I'm also in your replica, and I'm going to say a few more things about arbitration, so about those arbitration processes that are being initiated against the Republic of Croatia, representation has both a role and a DORH. I have to admit that in one of these arbitrations we participated, it was related to the paradise beach of Sibenik, and it was an arbitration which was obtained and which was especially looking forward to me because it proved that when you did everything you could to get it, or to that investor, who was afraid to enter that investment just to achieve some interest through arbitration later, that arbitration was in favor of the Republic of Croatia. In all these arbitrations, it's big money, it's all very hard to do, and I can agree with you that there are big financial resources, that there are limited possibilities, but now we come to that but. Your whole exposure was like that joke, whether you believe my words or your own eyes, so you came here on your own and commended the work of the State's Attorney's Office, which is also your task, you're in charge of it. So we can't expect someone to come in here and waste their time alone, but reality and paper are different. In real life is exactly how people experience it, exactly in the way that when they have to evaluate the work of the judiciary he's on the lowest possible branches, and the task is among other things the State's Attorney's Office that by its work, by its work, by its education, and by all others it's really advanced and not everyone else's fault, sometimes it's guilt and on those who do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185231	Thank you. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185232	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Advocacy Club, we change Croatia and the Living Wall for 10 minutes because, based on this report, which has been presented to us and based on these discussions, and what we believe we have come to know that we need to consult further because of this ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, national security and the foundations of Croatia's state and society are at risk. Why do I consider this why we think so, to further explain this request for a break? I was just reading a statement from the US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Kohorst, who says that for several years now, the share of US companies in Croatia has stopped at 100 and is gone. And he warns that the judiciary, even as a representative of another state, detected that the judiciary here is a rotten part of the foundation of Croatia's state and society, and we conclude that those who would like to do business in Croatia because they cannot come because they know what the situation is in the judiciary, and we who are inside are simply, not we here but a good part of the citizens flees from this kind of justice. The judiciary has become the first reason to leave our people abroad. The other thing, based on what we heard in the chief state attorney's report, is statistics say one thing, and citizens' mistrust grows on the other side. Well, this nation needs to finally show a few capitalists, first that they need to be taken away from their property, that's the first thing, when their assets are taken away, then we'll go on easy. And secondly, the other part is to finally put where they need it, all the other pieces are statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185233	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break and I'll see you at 14.29. I must point out, however, that this is not a full-scale report in the judiciary, this is a report on the work of only the State's Attorney's Office, and the judiciary is a much broader concept and it is not about many things that can be discussed either properly or wrongly by the State's Attorney's office. Thank you very much. I'll see you then. [[It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 14.29 HOURS]] Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, our break is up, and now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the esteemed representative of Marin Škibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185235	Thank you, Vice President HS, there is no state attorney yet, but until he arrives he would like to look back on the same important thing, for example. Today is a debate on the state's attorney's office and it is a very important topic, meaning a very important topic that interests Croatian citizens, most Croatian citizens are interested in this debate. However, HRT does not now pass on this debate and it is a big problem, so if we are now discussing in the public interest, and the public does not know, it does not know what MPs are discussing such an important topic, then it can be said that it is censorship and when such important topics come to the agenda, HRT should fully transfer them, not that they are now releasing some county panorama, but that key and important topics for Croatian society are fully transmitted. Also, what I have to say is it's not good that it's only today in 2020. We are discussing the 2017 report, so we came to us today on the agenda this report from 2017. And now we could use a 3rd-year-old. Back to discuss something that happened. These are, it is the same responsibility of the president of HS, it is also an indicator of how the Croatian government is setting itself up, it sets up such important topics because I would not mind it being a subject that is peripheral or some report of a particular institution that is not so important to the state of society and state, but when it comes to the report of an institution that is most important in the Republic of Croatia, one of the most important institutions and when we are in 2020. The report only comes in 2017. This is an indicator of the government's relationship to its own citizens. Also the responsibility of the DORH for the state of society is enormous, perhaps even the most significant and the DORH is one of the most important generators of today's mistrust in the judiciary and the system due to slow and inefficient sanctioning of crime. So when there's no serious crime repression, when institutions don't deal with crime, then it sends a message to society, to citizens, to people that crime is not being punished, and that cancer is spreading more and more. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The office has had in the work of applying against 1578 known and unknown natural persons, for the criminal offence of abuse of office and jurisdiction has received application against 1062 persons, against as many as 1000 persons the criminal application has been dismissed, meaning 94.2% of this criminal charges against persons have been rejected and this is one huge phenomenon, so I am interested in how so large a percentage of criminal charges have been rejected. So is it possible that out of 1062 applications, we are talking about 2017, that against as many as 1,000 people the criminal application has been rejected. I'm curious about the reasons for the rejection of these criminal charges, so he's given a problem in some real formulation, so you're rejecting those criminal charges, he's given the problem, I don't know, in the ignorance of matter or, or the citizens aren't consulting, so I'm interested in how it's possible that such a huge percentage exists of rejections of criminal charges, and all of this raises suspicion that the state's attorneys don't access in detail and seriously to these criminal charges. And what's the consequence? The consequence of that is that society has lost its trust and that is the same thing you know, but not only that, people are afraid to report for example. some of their superiors or certain colleagues if they see corruption in a particular institution, organisation, association, politics. Why are they afraid to sign up? Because they see if they even report, criminal charges in 95% of cases are dropped and then they simply don't want to expose themselves to this inconvenience, expose themselves to that danger if you don't want that information you get processed, it's poor statistics Mr. Jelenic. Your reasons here that you have stated, I have read it, you have said that people often report because of dissatisfaction with court outcomes, so they are dissatisfied with court outcomes and then they report judges, they report, I don't know, Supreme Judges or whoever, so that's one of the reasons that you have stated, and the other reason is for political reporting at local level, and I would also like you to explain it more specifically, which would mean, because in my opinion, you shouldn't even be interested in what the motives of reporting are, so you have to approach every criminal application very thoroughly and not to see so many motives than whether there is a basis or if there is no basis, whether there is something politically motivated or some other reasons of interest, that you can take into account, but what you need to be interested, you should be interested in whether this criminal application has a basis, whether certain information that is true inside and you need to access to verify that information. During 2018 13 state attorneys and deputies were resolved, and you also did not state the reasons, for which these state lawyers were resolved, that is, what interests me, is whether it was incompetence, whether it was not good enough to do its job, or whether it was a connection with certain criminal structures, means, because the problem of our society and the problem of our institutions, and that was the SOA Report that I read. It means that there are criminal groups that affect public institutions, and not only influence, but infiltrate public authorities to, to realize and implement criminal operations. It is very worrying, and it is one alarm, no society is immune to such a thing, there is no Croatia some endemic, it happens in other countries, but I believe that all of this has gone too far in Croatia. Often the public will talk about the impact of policy on the judiciary, and of course politics interferes everywhere means, politics is, I think and you as the chief state attorney you've been chosen from politics, so I don't see a model so you can choose the main state attorney, but here in the Croatian Parliament. I've heard some examples that some even recommend that, I don't know, state lawyers should go to elections and have citizens pick them. But democracy as such has many anomalies, too, and when such an election is put on the table, the same question is raised as what lobbying would be, so capital can also be a particular funding that has interest, this campaign of state lawyers and who knows what would happen there. Therefore, the fact is that politics, that politics is involved, means politics cannot be absolutely and difficult to rule out, but you should act independently of politics, and I know that you will say that you are acting independently of politics, but in practice the question is raised and the public is asking whether it is real, is it really so. The biggest crime problem in all systems that brings the greatest damage, and most difficult to sanction, is the so-called white collar crime, people in departments that enjoy high reputation in society, professors at colleges, political and religious leaders in white and black corners, high institutional officials. The problem is when corruption enters these branches of society. So people, so when corruption enters people who have a certain reputation in society, who have a certain authority in society and in general, and your main account as a state's attorney should be with these anomalies, because citizens should look up to these authority, whether they're teachers in college, whether they're politicians, whether they're some religious leaders, and if corruption and crime are allowed in those ranks, then that's one cancer that spreads that mistrust. And I know it's hard to deal with that white collar crime, but you have my support in it, that's what I can tell you as a parliamentary representative, and I think it's crucial for the system and society, because without the white collars all this crime that's going on at lower levels, and which you may even occasionally and sanction is a simple drop in the sea, and you won't get rid of those key corruption problems. As far as you are concerned, here you yourself have written in the report, meaning, in the area of the fight against corruption and economic crime, particularly sensitive areas are public procurement processes and their abuse, there is also an interest in investing capital of unknown origin in the Republic of Croatia, and there is a risk that money laundering is illegally acquired, this is what the report says, I think from 2018. Money laundering in the Republic of Croatia is a big problem, we even gave one criminal application concerning such a thing, in the Republic of Croatia from 2000 to 2010, certain credit institutions that gave loans to Croatian citizens, all of it was wild, all of it was illegal, the state's attorney's office didn't react until today. It's very likely and familiar to you, but when something is put under the rug, then there's simply no solution to it all, so no matter how much I may have potential and no matter how obvious and visible it is from the plane that it's a crime, and many shows have done, so it's been checked done many times, this one, reporting on that subject, people have talked, so we have judgments, testimony to the courts, but the state's attorney's office has done nothing to sanction such a thing. We had recently, uh, an attempt to influence an Austrian bank, Raiffeisen Bank on the Constitutional Court, means an incredible thing. This is simply an attack on the constitutional and legal order of a state where a foreign bank wants to influence such a high instance as the Constitutional Court and there it writes to create pressure. In what way do you create pressure, that's a big question? Also, we filed the same recent criminal charges against the CNB because it failed to regulate all this stuff. So it's not just the state's attorney's office responsible as an institution there's also the CNB when we're talking about money laundering, when we're talking about a parallel financial and monetary system, but the CNB needs to give you relevant and valid information and for that reason we've reported to the CNB because we think she didn't do it and there's evidence that she didn't do it today and the CNB is obstructing and avoiding such things. At the end of 2018, the number of pending cases in the State's Attorney's Office has been reduced by 10% compared to 2017, it should be said that these are not good results in my opinion, but if you do not have enough staff, if you do not have enough finances to tell the MPs here, and that is the situation, do not show the situation unrealistic because as long as we show the situation as unrealistic then you can't help you. You need critical access, you need to talk to the executive authorities, you need to ask for help and support if you cannot do your job effectively and efficiently for these resource reasons. Because the State's Attorney's Office is a key institution for any kind of development. When it comes to confiscation of property i.e. the property benefit of the word here you yourself have written by the State Attorney's Office facing the human resources challenges, you cannot find and cannot fill the places, the jobs of financial investigators, which is why an amendment to the regulations is proposed in this direction. So it's good that there's an initiative, but it's such a wide range of this problem because our educational institutions don't have that kind of direction of financial investigators at all. So you do, I ended the economy, for example. You don't have that kind of direction where you're going to get into certain details, and it should be. So in education institutions there should be economic directions that will deal with such one, these one segments, mean that we create, that our education system creates these experts that will work and that is very important, but our education system deals with trivial data, trivial information, and then people study, get out of that university, have no practical knowledge and wait for someone to hire them. And who's gonna hire you, who's gonna hire you? Therefore, there is a wide supply, so there is a wide range of problems and it is not just up to you, I agree, but it should be more courage, Mr Jelenic, because if you are acting so responsible then something is expected of you. I know that it is a great burden on you, I know that it is, it may be the hardest job that exists in the Republic of Croatia, it may be the hardest job that you have, but our support you have and we wish you all the luck in working to get a better job and to have the support of Croatian institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185236	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Bernardic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185237	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today is on the agenda Report on the work of the Attorney General for 2018. Imagine, today we're going to discuss a report on work, no less than work, and in fact it would be more appropriate to call this report a report on the failure of the attorney general. Be careful when we talk about it in 2020 for 2018 because obviously this ruling majority, too, wants to hide this dissatisfaction from the attorney general. I would like to remind you, in April 2018, HDZ's ruling majority replaced former Attorney General Dinko Cvitan and appointed her listener here as Mr Drazen Jelenić. Although he was promising a lot at first very quickly, it became clear why he came to the post and why he had to go to a respectable anti-corruption fighter, Dinko Cvitan, who, meanwhile, has bodyguards today because he was threatened by indictees from various corruption affairs. But you don't have to be afraid, Mr. Jelenic, it certainly won't happen to you. And you know why? Because you're not doing anything. But to avoid being criticized without arguments, let's remind ourselves of the facts. Corruption is in the public sector, everyone knows, a widespread phenomenon and according to Transparency International on the corruption perception scale for the last 3 years, so during your term as chief state attorney, Croatia has sunk among the most corrupt countries in the world. It's a fact, and you're not doing anything. In the biggest corruption affair in Croatia, in the Agrokora affair in which advisers pulled hundreds of millions of kunas from the fallen company again you did nothing, regardless of the fact that he confessed and I confirmed the prime minister when he replaced the extraordinary Commissioner Ramljak, when he replaced Minister Dalic and when he called on advisers to return the money. You didn't even find it appropriate to examine witnesses or participants of secret meetings in the government. So you've done nothing again. I'll remind you, 10 ministers had to fly out of this government on suspicion of corruption. And you're still doing nothing. Plenkovic's government is being held in power exclusively by political corruption, so by buying representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Some of them, they wrote about it and the media were very comfortable, so the Croatian Parliament has become one big litter of political corruption, and you do nothing. While ministers are rich on suspicion, until they can prove the origin of their property, while hiding their property, their yachts, their apartments, their fairies, their Mercedes, people live harder and move out of our country and watch out for miracles, you do nothing again. But if it doesn't turn out that I'm criticising without arguments, I'm going to remind you of a detailed, complex report that came from Brussels when we got a shower, a report from the European Commission that just warns that Croatia is one of the most corrupt countries and that this has just become the biggest problem during this Plenkovic HDZ government. And you, of course, have done nothing after that, by old custom. The latest APN case when both the director and the deputy director took apartments for their own needs instead of giving it to young families, it is a message that young families should move out of our country because HDZ officials at all levels should move into apartments. What did you do about it, what did you do? You know what? You did nothing. As in previous cases. Corruption eats up Croatian society, reduces the chances of society for success, because of corruption in Croatia's investment are never less. People live worse and worse because of it, they work for small wages, pensioners live in misery, and young and educated, unfortunately, do not see any future in our country. If it hadn't been for stealing, people in Croatia would have lived better, they would have had a higher standard. From the examples of the ruling, it is clear and obvious that corruption benefits only untouchable and all other citizens holding to order. Unfortunately, Croatia is a poor and robbed country, and in that accident some have become rich and, for example, this most corrupt government in Croatian history, it is clear that some continue to be rich. Because of corruption and mistrust in institutions, people leave our country because they see that those who should protect them from corruption like DORH actually close their eyes to corruption. That is why we in the SDP have initiated an Anti-Corruption Alliance that is ready to truly and uncompromisingly fight this wound cancer that destroys Croatia because the government in Croatia must not be corrupt. We need to change the laws and prevent corruption, and therefore, after the next elections, we will take responsibility for our country, implement a whole series of anti-corruption measures and laws that we will go into determining the origin of the property, stricter control of public procurement, transparency of financing of election campaigns, strict control of property cards and strengthening the role of the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest because we have just been able to bear witness to this commission by the ruling ministers, by the prime minister, for an unprecedented political pressure. And finally, in this whole situation, have you wondered what kind of message you're sending to our country's citizens when you're sitting in a box next to the USKOK indictee and Plenkovic's main coalition partner Milan Bandic? Do you know what you looked like? It's like a bad mob movie. But on this point, they gave their opinion to citizens who are rightly asking themselves today whether we have a top state attorney and what is his role?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185238	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and We Change Croatia and time will be shared by respected MPs Lovrinović and Vucelic, first respected representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I would like to welcome here also the Attorney General, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, especially welcome you fellow citizens. I assume you've all heard of Codruto Kovesi, it was a public prosecutor in Romania and that woman, the brave woman became a national heroine because from that place, let's call her the chief state attorney for Romania, she put hundreds of top officials behind the lock in Romania in one year, and then what happened? Then he started it, went to take her down. But when they wanted to, then the main square came to Bucharest, 300, 400,000 people came out. So that brave woman, she got behind her what they'd say to me, folks, that was her strength. No matter who chose her, but she broke herself because she obviously realized that the system in Romania was so weak, it was corrupt that he couldn't solve it inside of himself, but she dared and she made that salto mortal and then they went up on it. But she's got a citizen behind her. And not only that, last year, they wanted her, a criminal charges against her, to make it impossible for her to be a public prosecutor of the EU, imagine. Why? Because they realized, listen, if they go to Brussels now, they'll be able to step on us, or clean up Romania, but they didn't make it, and it's happily elected to the public prosecutor of the EU. Well, you see, Mr. Jelenic, it would be great for this troubled Croatian people to make that salty mortal because the system is so weak, the institutions are so weak, it's all networked. I really agree that the job you're doing is the law you're supposed to be doing, probably the hardest and most dangerous, most dangerous. On the other hand, it's not easy to look at here, you've been elected to Parliament, you see, look a little bit worse, there's none of those against which something's being run, see, there's none because I can't look at you. And probably not you, maybe you can, because you've been watching those in the theater, I'd go, well, you've been cultural so you're what I know, there are some rules cultural etc., but well that's a thing... But you see, you have a lifetime chance to prevent our dear country from suffering because everything is going down because of the judiciary, of course we're not talking here today about the common judiciary, you're a state's attorney and the law tells you that protecting property means citizens and the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's the property that's been robbed the most in this country, and it's still being continued. You see, the moment you find the strength, we'll all support you. Of course, you won't be supported by those against whom the applications are raised, and you now have a life challenge, you can become a national hero and by your example run all around people, so, I'm trying to get into your position, it's really hard, I said and dangerous but we won't do anything if that first move doesn't happen to get up and turn against this and then you'll get behind you all of the Croatian people, and then you don't even need to care who thinks about you from this party like this, they chose you, they didn't, etc., it's just this challenge. He who today has the courage to pick up several from here, starting with the Parliament and beyond, will save Croatia, will help us all. And you see, a few words about a segment that I read in the report, about property, about taking away property, that's what I've been paying particular attention to. First of all, let's be realistic. These political elites that are good works, meaning they've been swept away by corruption so far, they're in the interest of the DORH being weak, that you don't have enough space, that you don't have enough money to pay, that you don't have enough computers, just that you don't have enough. It is the same with other courts, commercially, come to the courts, see when you enter the courtrooms, so it is a shame to receive a convict, let alone a more prominent representative in these courtrooms. Such institutions need such structures. They need a weak state audit, they need a weak tax administration that, when this government came, you know, she was beyond anything, they brought her back back to the Ministry of Finance's wing, it has to be all under our control, you can't do what you want. So, people, they're all the most sensitive to property, and now look, there's a case against, I won't mention names here, and at the moment when we're hoping something will be, they're legally crossing the Croatian border with their passport, most of all in BiH, and here's the property that's in the story, and you're right there, which is a restriction problem, that the property can be taken away for 2 years, and you there in the report are practically protesting it, or you're asking us to change. Why, I read it carefully because those most important problems, so litigation, they last longer than two years, and as soon as it's over two years, this indictee gets his assets back, then he can do whatever he wants and eat the donkey wolf. So look, this problem is very simple to solve, every time someone who is accused does not come in Bosnia and Herzegovina, immediately for that day 50 or 100 000 kuna, means the law is passed that they have to pay. Yeah, it's not the first time he's been charged with property, ten times a million, and so he can hypothetically run out of swear property here at some point. So I'm not a lawyer but I have a healthy logic, there are all mechanisms for us in Croatia to change this unbearable state and it comes from the judiciary. You see, as an economic expert, when I first came here, I thought that economic policy was the most important, you know. And then I realized that you could bring 10 Nobels to Croatia to organize and write economic policy for you, and if corruption is a cross-border country, there's no way it's gonna work. Now I'm going to refer to a specific case, so we filed a criminal application in DORH against the CNB in the case of the Swiss franc and RBA savings-credit cooperatives where almost Austria is on Rab because of 706 contracts, it almost got its way out of the sea, so I'm not exaggerating, it almost occupied that island. And indeed that is true, so what is it but property? Why isn't anyone doing anything? Well people feel powerless and a state that is unable to ensure safety for its citizens, and they pay taxes, so it's not their country, it's someone's private state like... The second criminal application was which we also handed over and we on the side Change Croatia on this insist, v RBA bank, watch out for Austrian banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What she is, she publicly announced an ad that she's looking for a PR agency that will help her influence the courts, imagine, so it's been raped so much that she publicly calls. So that bank, so in Austria, it's a European business, here Balkan, let's call it what we want. And what's waiting here, beware, it's been a month today, there are some things that have happened before or after they've been reported, a test of importance for the whole country, for the general population, it has to be a criterion, and it's not clear to me a year or a month ago. Until we deal with it, we will not be able to do anything to you and other judicial authorities who robbed Croatia the most, they laugh at you, they laugh at us. We are the moral fools we talk about, you know, but we want to keep our children here, and that's why anti-corruption is the first most important fight to be fought by citizens and all people of goodwill who want to have a state from Croatia, a healthy state, and if we don't have people to move out, they don't go first because of the economy of pay but because they feel that state institutions can't protect them before the judiciary. It's an endless trial. There is no, watch out, first degree, second degree, then you go to the Supreme Court, and then to the Constitutional Court everyone solves problems from 200 kuna to 200 million kuna. It is all known how to clean up, but it is not wanted because this is simply the kind of justice that the DORH needs, you are, I don't attribute anything to you, but you are bound, I am aware of that institution, but make it your first man that you will have the support of all of us, at least here the opposition, in my name I speak, we change Croatia and me as representatives, and you will stand behind you people as a whole. That's what needs to be done because there's no change without the spirit of change. The spirit of change brings one man, if necessary in that area, and then everyone will go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185240	Thank you. The honourable representative Damjan Vucelic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185241	Dear colleagues and colleagues, chaired by the Secretary of State, today's chief state attorney reports to parliament in which defendants or their tokens are sitting, as well as one accused party, but before I begin my speech on behalf of the Living Wall, I must define the concept of the mafia. The mafia is an association of criminal groups that have a common organisational structure and rules of conduct. She's interested in making as much profit as possible and winning power. It tends to practice state functions. And what does it mean to practice state functions? Chief State Attorney Drazen Jelenic could best answer this question for you. Because imagine what would happen if criminals from a criminal group sat in positions of power. You'd better ask yourself what would happen if a criminal were in a position to hunt down other criminals. And the DORH under the bat of former state attorneys Vinko Cvitan and Mladen Bajic, and now under Drazen Jelenic's stick is chasing criminals. He's chasing people who are without political ties, petty criminals, and in order for the system to work, order has to be maintained, and all tens of thousands of criminals, petty criminals don't steal nearly as much as one political capital, and I'm probably passing by at least one of those in the assembly today. This is the story of the Croatian mafia. Groups that join together under the names of political parties, the mafia that is protected by inaction through Dinko Cvitan, and through Mladen Bajic and through now via Drazen Jelenic. Tomorrow it will be a fourth, but make sure that this man is set up with the same goal. The DORH should prosecute the perpetrators of crimes, be independent, but the DORH is corrupt, rotted inside. By inaction, by rejecting criminal charges, by stalling cases until they're out of date and sloppyly done with the DORH's work is actually a criminal generator. The one who's supposed to protect society, he's destroying it. A month ago, Chief State Attorney Jelenic was sitting with Bandic at the HNK lodge at a concert over the Croatian EU presidency. The man who processes Bandic sits next to him in the shed, publicly, without shame. Here are your citizens. It's a picture of Croatia. It's just that one photo is saying more and more than all of my presentation in the assembly today. And at the moment, the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the former president of the current ruling party are testifying to the crime that the party is obsessed with. Are you aware of what that really means? You are aware that thanks to you, this government held by your indictees, that you are directly responsible for the purchase of MPs and the largest parliamentary corruption in the history of the country. How can your lawyers not be able to file an indictment without falling ten times? The living wall is blocked and rejected on 10 criminal charges filed, and we have reported from all participants of the Borg group to Bandic, Milan Brkic, Tomislav Debeljak, Plenkovic, Ivica Kirin and others. The DORH punishes grandmothers and salad dealers, and thousands of capitals walk still free. The withdrawal and robbery of half a billion kuna is probably some unwritten rule. Let's think of Agrokor, the Borg group and the 500 million kuna advisor, and remember the privatisation of the HPB by hundreds of millions plus an additional 280 million credits. HEP again over 500 million with the supply of electricity to TLM producers, the HAC affair building the 77km Dupolje highway – Ravca worth over 800 million, billions and billions. Groups within the mob have started aggressively charging their claims, feeling in the air that it's getting harder and harder to get money, and on the other hand there's more competition to calm down, so we don't really care who wins the election within HDZ, we don't care because tomorrow the mafia will still rule, and we'll just watch some other faces, the system won't change, the system won't change. And what the consequences of DORH's unhappiness are in the Croatian economy and the environment, instead of entering the Uljanik many years ago, and you knew, you entered only when the company was no longer saved, you are now doing the same thing with Brodosplit. How many reports does Tomislav Debeljak still have to falsify, and how much for it we have to pay him in ships, which he will not build, and how many more State Audit Office reports must warn him of the robbery in order for you to react? In the last decade, 500, 650 km of square forests have been cut illegally by the Green Squad, and according to the revision of the Croatian forests themselves, there are at least a thousand kilometers of square. This area is comparable to the surface of the Republic of Croatia. Billions of EUR were stolen by the wooden mafia, and the damage to the environment is immeasurable. Water sources, drying out. When are you going to do more? I'll say when, and that's when the mob does its job, and when they cut down the last tree. Then the DORH will come and say he has the elements of the indictment. It's a shame. When USCOCK stops smuggling cheese and prosciuttos worth several thousand kunas, when it will stop dealing with cases of bribery by a traffic cop with 50,00 kuna, and when it will start dealing with what it was founded for, and what its name says is organised crime. When will USKOK finally have a dozen strong cases of systemic corruption a year, not to disperse hundreds and thousands of tiny ones? Instead of acting preventively, you act affirmatively, instead of preventing criminal acts, you wait for criminals to finish the job, and then you come to a final act. And finally, when are we finally going to get to the fact that crime in Croatia doesn't pay off? The living wall will not support your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185242	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics, and time will be shared by respected representatives Goran Aleksic and respected representative Žagar. Here you are, first honorary representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185243	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable State Attorney Jelenić, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have been very special in one topic, because this topic is not finished and will not be completed even when my mandate is passed, as far as I can see, and the topic is called the robbery of Croatian citizens by foreign-owned Croatian banks. The robbery was carried out and it was found in the court by a powerful verdict in 2014, in fact by the power of the part of the 2014 judgment at the High Court of Commerce, when it was found that banks had negotiated unfair interest rates, then by confirming the second part of the power of Judge Radovan Dobrinić's judgment in 2018, when the High Court of Commerce confirmed that the banks had also negotiated an unfair currency clause, then by confirming at the Supreme Court in 2019 when the audits of banks were rejected, and what happens afterwards? It happens that we have confirmation, but we don't have a solution to the problem. We've only got 30% of the work done, and there's work here for everyone. There are jobs for Croatian citizens who need to sue banks, get their money, work here for us to allow citizens to get their money as easily as possible, and finally work has for the State's Attorney's Office to sanction those who have committed the robbery. In 2012, it seems to me that criminal charges were filed against the Croatian National Bank by the Franak Association for inaction, and the State's Attorney General then rejected the criminal application. I filed a new criminal report, not against the CNB, but against eight banks found guilty of the robbery of Croatian citizens, and it was done last year, about two months ago. I have reported all eight banks for being damaged by Croatian citizens, because they indirectly damaged the Croatian economy, as well as the state budget. It is the fact that Croatian banks through unfair contracts robbed 150,000 debtors with a currency clause Swiss franc for some 20 billion kunas, and additionally another 200 thousand, 200 thousand debtors who negotiated other currencies, but an unfair interest rate for an additional 5 billion kuna. Croatia's foreign-owned banks, therefore, owe about 25 billion kuna to Croatian citizens, of which 1% may have been returned so far, as there may be so many judgments on the basis of which the return of the money was made. What is expected of the State's Attorney's Office, except for the fact that statistics are being presented here and that the State's Attorney's office is actually quite successful? We need to talk about things that have not been realized, and there is no realisation of sanctioning and carrying out criminal persecution against, I would dare say, perhaps even the biggest robbers in the history of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to Croatian citizens. I don't know who else robbed Croatian citizens for 25 billion kuna other than these banks? I don't know who took so much money from people in a way that wasn't allowed, in an illegal way. The job of the State Attorney's Office should then be to bring these banks to court, to bring the proceedings, to criminal proceedings against banks and responsible persons, and then to the banks as legal persons and responsible persons in the banks of penalties, I don't know if anything will happen in this matter, we'll see, we'll show the future, but I have to mention one case similar to that in France, in France, the banks also, in fact, one bank also negotiated unfair loans, there it was in a much smaller scale, all around 15,000 loans were due to these 15,000 loans that the banks agreed in an illegal manner, where they damaged French citizens, the public prosecutor of the Republic of France launched a criminal case against that bank. I did not later investigate what was happening with this, but I know that the criminal proceedings were initiated, as I expect from the DORH, we need to know that at this time they are headed against the Republic of Croatia for an arbitration procedure in Washington where these banks that robbed the citizens sued the Republic of Croatia for the conversion of CHF credit into the euro and they say that they lost some of their investments, that they had no expense, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, they did not, however, they did not have to reduce the principals to the debtors, but they did not have absolutely any expense, the banks did not pay any of those debts to those debtors, therefore they did not have any cost, that cost which they exhibited as a cost is the first lie, as a second, they did not invest in these loans, but invested in these loans to their Croatian citizens with their deposits, so they did not have a basis for loans that they were paid in the Croatian currency by the Croatian government, which they did nothing to their citizens. The third thing is that the EU court has clearly and unequivocally found that the arbitrations that members are moving against each other, against each other are not in accordance with EU law, and therefore cannot be carried out, and then it is not surprising that the arbitration banks started in Washington, rather than in the EU where this would not be possible. I am now wondering if the state's attorney's office will initiate criminal proceedings against the banks since the banks have initiated proceedings against the Republic of Croatia which is completely unfounded. The state unfortunately still sees these banks as some sacred cows, and the banks are actually in the Republic of Croatia, foreign-owned banks are the most common thieves. It says on the CNB's pages, in fact, in the CNB's pages that it should write about what a bank, member of the administration, president of the board, etc., a high-ranking person in the bank should be, firstly, a man with experience, and secondly, it should be a respectable person who has no spot in his career, and all the current members of the bank's administration do not respect the words of the judicial verdict, and the jurisprudence of the judgment except that he has a part that has to go to court and look for his money in court, there is also an executive part that says that neither in the future nor in those contracts where banks have yet failed to comply with that judgment in part of the contract that continues to have unfair interest rates, have not ceased to apply these unfair interest rates and banks in those contracts where the conversion of the CHF in which the EUR has not yet been made in the euro. So I'm going to quote the President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Đur Sessu, who said when he was called for it, but the court has no sword, no wallet, no sword, no sword to break this conduct that is unfairly, unwittingly and thievingly, and there's no wallet to pay people back, but people have to go to court themselves, get a verdict, and then that verdict becomes an executive document and that executive correction if it's necessary to execute the bank. But that's why we have a state attorney's office who can prosecute thieves and who still haven't prosecuted those thieves, whether it happens in the future or not, I don't know, I'm not the only one who filed a criminal report, I know there are cases like that yet. It is very simple to determine how largely unfair the behaviour of banks was, very simply, here I will give an example of how this could be explored, there should be no specific legal science, any economic knowledge or anything like that, it is simply necessary to send a letter to the accused banks to deliver information on how many consumer contracts they have overall agreed by some date, until 2013, because by 2013, they have negotiated unfair interest rates and then let them deliver data on how much contracts, of those contracts they have agreed with consumers, agreed on an interest rate in a way that it consists of a fixed and variable part in a certain period. And then when the banks answer that out of 100,000 they contracted maybe 1000 contracts with parameters, and all other contracts were agreed by changing the bank's decision, it's a corpus delict, so you don't have to go to the bank at all and ask for a contract to be checked, but the bank has to give the information, as much as you've agreed on contracts where there are parameters on the basis of which the interest rate changes and when the bank answers 1,000 out of 100 000, it's a corpus delict. These 99,000 contracts have been negotiated in an unfair manner, unlawfully, and because of these 99,000 contracts, they must be held accountable in criminal terms, very simple. For CHF loans even simpler, the total amount of credit you contracted with the CHF currency clause and the bank sends the data so much, and that has already been found illegal. So that DORH apology I got that can't be processed because DORH doesn't have the tools to get into the bank and check how contracts are arranged, I've now given a prescription that it's very simple to claim in fact, very simple. And then if there's a suspicion that the banks were lying, then let's go check it out. Here's so much, I wanted to appeal to the State's Attorney's office to get deep into this problem and try to do something to get the banks punished, to get the members of the board, so that the sanctions are not moral, but to be truly material, and that they never think about acting in the Republic of Croatia the way they don't behave anywhere west of the Republic of Croatia. So nowhere west of the Republic of Croatia has the bank negotiated an interest rate in the way it was agreed in Croatia, nowhere. I have an example of a lawyer who worked for a mother bank that I know who told me that he came to Zagreb once in 2005, 2006 and the daughter's bank was preparing a single credit line and he saw in the contract that the interest rate would change with the bank's decision. And he said, but colleagues and colleagues can't do it that way, we don't do it in Austria, and his colleagues and colleagues told him, but our colleague doesn't defend the CNB, so that's how we do it here. So the CNB is guilty, it's all the authorities, all the governments of the Republic of Croatia to this day, and it's our fault that we didn't do anything to stop it, and the DORH will be responsible for me if it doesn't start sanctioning banks through a criminal trial. Thank you very much, after me, my colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185244	Thank you very much. Here will now speak Honorable Representative Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185245	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will try in this short part of the debate on behalf of the club to touch the two important dimensions of this report in order to contribute to the debate, and in an individual debate I will continue in that section in the details that I think is important to say today. The first thing that's very important and that's being warned year by year, and before I say I'm kidding, let the state's attorney ask you, do you have any connections at the vehicle's technical inspection stations, as you register these cars this one seems to me from 1998. Fiat Tempra, and Audi A4 from +95. A year? Pretty old cars, probably not even green anymore, doesn't mean they're not good, but they're pretty old. It's one of the dimensions of the DORH's work that's being emphasized here year after year, so there's no computer, there's no computer, no space, no working conditions, you're expected to pursue criminals who'll see that later that they're gaining values, illegal values in millions of kunas. So I think it's one of the aspects that is certainly important, so the conditions in which you as a whole work as an institution, the State's Attorney's Office of County, the municipal state's attorneys, and what you're completely warning in the reports. Another dimension of the problem is the legislative framework in which you act. I've got something in my replica today, but let me quote one man. "The dialogue of tolerance, respect for democratic procedures, the mitigation of radicalised social relations is a new name for reconciliation in today's Croatia. The rapid changes in the political and economic system have made it possible to enrich individuals quickly and the increasing poverty of a number of citizens in action is a sin of structure that has been made possible by laws and regulations that did not have a common good for man and community." These are the words of the Archbishop Bozanić in 1997, unfortunately these words are still current today. In fact, I asked you this in the replica of April 26, 1990, the Law on the Origin of Assets was abolished. He went into effect on May 7th, '90. The year immediately after the first elections, the multi-party and 30 years will soon mark how the law was abolished. And you, in the part where you mention the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation, I'll only read one part of it. In conclusion, "the end of such a situation is a little more likely and despite the unlimited effort of the State Attorney's Office to process wartime profits and persons who have committed crimes in the process of conversion and privatisation, it is justified to expect more significant positive developments and results in the processing of these crimes and what they predicted and expected in the adoption of the law itself, the law was passed in 2011. So you're concluding there's actually not a single judicial verdict and even in one verdict that's compared to the HYPO case it's the Constitutional Court has been shot down. So you're saying that this law simply didn't get results and that's why I asked you first of all as a man, you said as a state lawyer that you're not a legislator and that's your right, and of course you don't make laws, we here in the Parliament are passing laws. And I personally believe that the Law on the Origin of Assets should be passed because without it you can't, you don't actually have tools to work. Some say it has the Tax Administration that other institutions, however obviously you in this part of the paper are not enabled enough. As regards the part of the economic crime reports, we can find on the website of the FINA, these are the most recent data related to pre-profit settlements for the period from 1.10.2012 to 7.2.2020, the total amount of commitments reported is more than 82 billion kuna, of which is either the accepted plan and a settlement for 50 billion and 158 million kuna, hence the significant assets which marked the pre-departure agreements and the general part of the bankruptcy proceedings you state that the exact number of bankruptcy proceedings is in 2018. launched, however, what you warn about pre-demand settlements is the emergence of the fact that bankruptcy proceedings are opened against companies that have previously passed the pre-demand settlement procedures under the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement. It was observed that companies which concluded a pre-departure settlement under the Financial Business and Pre-departure Act, therefore which had already reduced the claims of the Republic of Croatia and other creditors to newly established companies, which shortly after the establishment of the proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure under the bankruptcy law, thus trying to further reduce previously reduced the demand for creditors, and that the claims from the pre-departure agreement concluded under the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement had not even been settled. These are very serious things, I did not notice in your report how educated your employees are on these matters, it is a serious economic crime and, of course, it is not easy to determine and says even though the provision of the article of the Banking Law prescribed that the court would reject the proposal to open the pre-trial proceedings if it did not expire 2.g. Since the fulfilment of the pre-determined pre-departure agreement, the courts are not checking, so you are, you say the courts are not checking, and how then you do not have this, and the believer is not, the state has no right to appeal, but only the debtor who, through the new pre-departure procedure, is trying to reduce his debts to the believers again. On the bankruptcy process itself and what is stated in the report I will speak in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185246	Thank you very much, now we'll move to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185247	Thank you very much. The report shall be accompanied by a report of the esteemed lawyer for 2017 and 2018. I can only say what I did, that's the case of this CNB. Boris Vujčić, Relje Martić, Odak, Šošić, Barbaroša, Fras, Faulend and others, including 8 and that means that in the matter of inaction, I have raised a criminal application on 21.4.2017. where the CNB is reluctant, not by the control of the system company,... We know what happened in the case of Agrokor. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also raised against HANFA. Namely v. 5 persons because on the matter of White and other White Dards, St. John, in Agrokor Belje, they also raised... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. It was all illegal, and that's why what was happening, I've raised well-founded professional, professional, these criminal reports, unfortunately so far I have no answer, but those who are guilty essentially of what led to the economic downturn in the Republic of Croatia from the CNB and the HANFA in essence, they're just state lawyers re-elected. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we talk about the report, what I was saying at the beginning and what I asked through the replica and through the break, basically because I was a long member of the HV, as a young man I was at war and when the war ended, then I realized what it was about, as we all younger saw that those who didn't have five kunas in their pocket were suddenly the owners of everything, so I'm talking about my Son. And of course, at the time I heard that story, I heard it, there was a rumor that everyone knew the birds of the city and Sinj that the money for the guns had disappeared, so that money was borrowed, borrowed, that's it. It was loaned to Meteor Paper to the family of Emile Tedeski i.e. He owned that company in the '90s, it's unfortunate that it's about money, why, as it is about money intended for the defense of Sinj, the purchase of weapons, millions and 600 marks, the earthquake was in '89. And, of course, since the occupation began to be healthy logically, then this congregation of Sinj Municipality made one decision, and the aggression had already begun, the Civilian area had already begun, Otitisic had already been blocked towards Knin and the logical move was that those coins that had been used for an earthquake had been redeployed because the weapons were needed, and then the company Meteor Paper had received a million with resistance from many people, meaning when it was naked Croatian people, when it was more necessary than a cow's weapon, meaning when it was absolutely a Vrlic part, he fell, he was favored by the fall, there was a million and 600 marks, and then they replaced Ante Turudić, the president of the assembly who, after my statement in, as a councilman to this question, said that everything I was exactly what I was saying. Yes, and you are, so that money has never been returned, this is not an attack on Emil Tedeski, nor on Todorovic, nor on anyone, but it is the fact that this money is not returned. I am a city councilman because of these people is then occupied 40% of the Cetina landscape, so they came without the Croats at the entrance itself, the Peruča dam minivan, huge damage, means that money is aimed at weapons would probably have been more resilient if the money was important, huge damage and because of these people I feel obliged and then I felt I was then directed against the unknown perpetrator criminal application in 2011, and you sent me the answer, not you but then Mr. Cvitan, sent the answer to the assembly, but only for this 2011, and I raised another 4 criminal charges, 2014, remember Djura Gavrilovic when he was convicted, I dreamed again, so Gyuro here in Gavrilović answers, Đuro from Sinja does not fit. I repeat, the money, the money for weapons is very important for people in the Cetinski area of these million and 400 000 marks, by calculations a few years ago it would have been with interests 17 million euros, then it means from the 90th until now and this is not a blow to Emil Tedeschko and I care whether they are friends with Zoran Milanović or friends with Plenkovic, it doesn't matter if the man has returned it, and I am as city councilman wastes to show me paper in the municipality or municipalities of the following, i.e. 6 municipalities of Sinj, 3 municipalities and 3 cities, that was one municipality before, the Sinj municipality, no one ever showed me some kind of paper that those money had been returned. And it hurts people down there. I think, of course, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it doesn't matter who answers, the only thing they get is a memo that says it was already a verdict, but I, when I was, was the problem of Transporting Sinj, who was also privatized by robbery, is not about the reconstruction and consolidation of the Car Transport Sinj, Transport Makarska is in one illegal way or another. Disrespecting the contracts took over the car transport of Sinj, then I was with the auto transport workers at the then lawyer Bajic. And I tell him, look, I showed him this, he says it's okay, but when there's a law on non-depreciation of war profit, and okay, I've done it all, but you still don't know the money. If the money's back, if the money's back, I'll be the first to apologize, is fair, but I can't get confirmation they gave the money for the '90s weapons back. And that's the key problem, I'm talking here, because it's about the money to defend the Chett area, then the Livna field was threatened, then that whole one, one area was with that money could be a lot more armed, huge money at that time. It doesn't mean anything so far, I don't have any results. When the bill comes to me, I'll personally be the first to apologize. So he created on the bloodline his empires, as long as they don't show, on the blood of people, on the blood of Croatian people, until they show that money, that's the first thing. And one very important thing to me, it's war crimes. At the invitation of Vukovar, the more accurate mayor of Vukovar before, I can't remember, there was a protest in Vukovar about war crimes, and in getting to know a number of people than those who were raped, those who were even related to me were in the camp, and those I met, saying the terrible crimes they had been through, so living witnesses were testifying there, I'm sorry that it was then boycotted in Vukovar because they needed to hear the cry of the Vukovar. The fact is that these criminals are walking free today and in the Republic of Croatia, I mean, I'm saddened by it, here I don't know what it's like for you to see Seselj, Seselj from Serbia. A Chet who's been released to be sick and our generals are still in The Hague. So what kind of relationship is that? Could you as the State's Attorney's Office, we as the Republic of Croatia, be able to observe Chešelj Chetnik or Vukic who comes here, who walk freely, walk on our Republic, yet mock Seselj, like... She let him go for the sake of disease and he's making fun of the chickens, the reapers, the provoking, the harassing, the mocking of the Croats in the Krtkovci, so he's mocking the people of Vojvodina where we've been committed the greatest crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While our people are being terrorized, but the bigger problem is our campers whom no one has heard, and they have facts, I've taken the gentleman in question, I won't name him now, and I can't, it was your deputy who received him, people simply have their truth, the names and names of their tormentors who took him away, but I don't know why we're deaf to it. I can't understand why we don't solve these crimes. We have a problem. Ivan Schreter. Degorcija says that the main participant, Milorad Pupovac, has anyone ever asked Milorad Pupovac, I also suggested that it be called Peace Day by Dr. John Schreter, one peacemaker, so did anyone tell Mr. Pupovac, is this true that Mr. Degorcija is saying that you are the culprits, that you knew about this case about Mr. Ivan Schreter? No, they are the righteous and the martyrs. So we have one problem where war criminals walk to Croatia in rapes, where Croatian defenders are in The Hague i.e. Generals persecuted in the worst way, we still have a general of oil in The Hague who are as members of the HVO but Croatian soldiers, Croatian generals in The Hague, while let's say really when I see Cheshelj Chetnik what he's doing and what crimes he's been doing in the Republic of Croatia, he's been calling for crimes, what he's done. So we have a lot of problems with the state's attorney, and I expect these problems to be solved, but so far they haven't been solved. The expectations are not fulfilled, I apologize... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185248	The next individual debate will be a respected representative...... Yeah, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We have one replica before, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General, colleague Bulj. You have well noticed that those responsible for organising the rebellion in Western Slavonia are undermined under forgiveness and abolism. It is known exactly who founded the camp in Bučje, the name and last name, the leaders of the rebellion in western Slavonia, is known every name of the special police force of Krajina, the Krajina army, all after the release Okuken was clearly found in the Okucani command as well as a document archived in our services but also in the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War, therefore it is difficult to understand that for the commander, founder, co-founder, there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185250	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185251	Well, it is incomprehensible, so mainly to people, these victims, people, participants in the Homeland War, and especially to areas where these Chetniks essentially joined in the criminal enterprise of the creation of Greater Serbia to assist and with Sheselje, Milosevic who came here and they are now at large and you are now at large in Croatia. It is amazing that Croatian people, people who are in the Republic of Croatia, that they have to look at these grave, huge monuments of these Chetniks di insult our people and they live, walk past their victims, rapists pass by raped women, and that's amazing. And I'm talking to these people, you can't believe that people know everything, name, last name, documents have, who took them, who brought them in, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, and nobody, can't just come into a position to tell who these criminals are, who these occupiers are, who these roofies are, and they just can't ask themselves how all these people who are the victims of those criminals who are laughing at us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185252	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the esteemed representative of Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185253	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear Jelenic. I remember well when you entered duty that you said you were DORH's child, I hope that what you learned as a child in DORH and what you... To this day since you've already grown up in this meeting, that you'll be the result more in the judiciary. in your work than it was when you were a kid but I'm gonna read it like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to Wikipedia, the verbal deliction was a coloquial term for a criminal offence provided for in Article. 133. Criminal law, so-called. SFRJ. On the basis of this legal provision, political processes have been carried out with very drastic penalties against people who in word questioned the correctness of the communist rule. For example, Marko Radica was sentenced to 11 years, let him be mentioned, Vlado Gotovac for 2 years and many others. We thought it was the time behind us but the state's attorney's office filed charges at the municipal court in New Zagreb against journalist Marko Juric. For 4 years, two of his "Marco Square" release shows were to be considered and the state worked diligently for 4 years still succumbed to politics in Croatia and filed charges against Juric and the legal person of the Blue Production company on 30 December 2019. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, Juric maintains and burdens that on 12 and 19 January 2016 he is as editor, manager and responsible person of the Blue Production in order to encourage a sense of hatred and intolerance among more people, according to members of the Serb national minority in Croatia, believers of Orthodox religion in Croatia and the clergy of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, said in a statement to dear Zagrebians, to all you who are walking in the Flower Square, be careful when he is near where he says I should paraphrasise a Serbian minister, a Chettic Vicar. So, my dear Zagrebers, when you walk in the Flower Square, especially mothers with children, make sure that none of these Chetnic Vicars run out of the church and a little in their manner bows, perform their bloody beer on our most beautiful square in Zagreb, which may need to mark the tables “watch out for a sharp brush nearby. ” In addition, the state places a burden on him and logs out on a show broadcast a week later. Please don't interrupt me in my reading document. Juric alluded to the well-known historical practice that many Serbian Orthodox church clerics actively participated in the Chetnik movement and bled their hands mainly over the civilian non-Serb population. In doing so, he was prompted by videos of a few of the Serbian Orthodox Church's clerics, including Porphyria, which are being increased by just the villain of Chetnik Djujic's priest, a quote by Piskačev. From the same DORH did not respond to SDP's 2018 statement, Nenad Stazic, it appears in May '45. It wasn't done thoroughly. What a creamy winner. Isn't it an invitation to violence modeled in May '45? where Stazic believes he is in May '45. There were even more people to be killed. Justifyingly, he also said this, fascism was not defeated in '45, so in that sense business was not completed as it was finished elsewhere in Europe. If it is not clear to those in charge of writing the indictments, Stazic accused Croatia of living in fascism and believes it should be dealt with by titoistic and Chetnic generations. Is that hate speech encouraging or calling for violence? It is described more closely in Art. 325. The KZ's public drive to violence and hatred put on the burden of Juric. If the law isn't the same for everything, then it's lawlessness, State's Attorney. Now I ask you citizens of Athens, who should test a glass of poison and who, while alive, eats about the cost of the city? Ultra-known paraphrases from Socrates' apoology because we saw pedophile scandals in SPC, we saw the call of Chetnya. We've seen the SOA report, we've seen all the warnings of appearances in Croatian society, the phenomena of Chetnya and what we've inherited behind some of the things we haven't processed, but so I don't waste a lot of time just to be left with the crimes of war crimes, I'm going to read something again. The number of defendants is slightly less than the average of the last few years, and the reason for this lies in the difficult collection of evidence in these offences given the increasing flow of time since the beginning of these crimes. Namely, it should be borne in mind how events that occurred more than 20 years ago are going on, so it is very difficult to reconstruct events at the scene of the crime, either because witnesses are becoming increasingly more and more difficult to recall concrete events and their statements are missing and unquality, or more and more, the increasing number of deaths making it difficult to prove more and more. Now, since you're DORH's child, and you remember everything that's been going on, no one's lost their memory in the time period, but it's possible that something has been complemented or separated, maybe something has been delayed on purpose for so long, and I'm going to start with a crime of interrupted werewolf childhood, who killed four-year-old Martin Štefancic and her grandmother in the year '92 in Bor's village? You know who killed her? I need to find an intervening platoon of the territorial defense of Bor's villages, so they do. One killed himself and his wife from that water, the other died naturally, the others were not available, and a report was filed against those who did so by police investigator Kaikic. At the time, however, the commander of the territory headquarters in Borovo village was Radenko Alavanja, and this intervention water, Radenko Alavanja, was released at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in absentia, and at the time of his command, 83 non-Serbs were killed in the Borov village. Why didn't this murder case that was committed under his command happen to him by the day of today? Why didn't anyone do it? What's an off-duty cop got to do about it? What did I end up here for anyway? Because of all those criminal charges I filed, I'm sorry I filed criminal charges, I'm very sorry I filed them. For all 61 of them to end up for three years alone, three years in prison for all those crimes committed in Bor's village, the 83 non-Serbs killed at school, on an abortion, in the center of Sela, killing wherever they wanted, on the house, on the doorstep killed little Martin and her grandmother, no one interested. For what? Why do witnesses die? So they die under the burden of years, under the burden of memories that persecute them, and die, and die unhappy because they have not seen justice. What is the monument to the Shoshkocans in Bor's village as a hero? Is that insulting to me, is anyone wondering? Are you wondering, Mr. Jelenic, does it hurt me that he killed my brother and the other 11 directors, who personally killed six men? He's a hero and has a mausoleum in Bor's village. Does that offend me? You quickly rose when the monuments of France and Mili Budaku were to be torn down, it's okay to destroy what bothers someone, and I'm bothered by something. Is someone going to tear it down or am I going to have to write letters again, report something else, or am I going to do something else at some point, who's going to be guilty? No, I won't do it, I'll leave Croatia to red, to be ashamed. Let him be ashamed of every sacrifice for your failures that you did not do what you were supposed to do, and Mercep Tomislav was well-ready able to pack all of you up for indemnity, failed to prevent crimes, imagine he failed to prevent crimes, so he got jailed, and Radenko Alavanja under whose command and under his command were crimes committed, he was set free.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185254	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185255	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured, and you have also injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, because you obviously do not listen to parliamentary deputies. Mr Culej began to warn of some imaginary threats in the center of Zagreb by strangers who could run out of one church, it was a classic hate speech, you were obliged to warn him and take away his word, because this is how you talk without any reason, I don't think it's simply appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185256	I estimate that no injured Rules of Procedure, because as far as I understand it, he read an article from the media, so, uh, probably should, if needed, then it should have been directed to the media, according to this media or these media, and not to fellow Culei, who, no, had read something that was published, publicly published, yes. We have one, one, one replica, here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have well stated that individuals under under the pardon of the judicial authorities, i.e. courts in a trial that did not need to be, and that the State Attorney's Office should react to the extreme limits of endurance, defend what is stated in the Law, and in the Law of Article 3, it clearly states: “For the forgiveness of the crimes referred to in Article 1 of this Law, the perpetrators of the most serious violations of humanitarian law which have the character of war crimes and for the crimes of genocide referred to in Article 119 of the war crime against the civilian population referred to in Article 120 of the war crimes against wounded, patients and prisoners will be excluded. ” It's clearly telling you about this, that Radenko Alajava as... Insurgency in Western Slavonia cannot be brought under forgiveness under Article 3. I believe that it must be clearly reacted, therefore dissatisfaction with the work of the judicial authorities, which is why all these protests are taking place, which is why the State Attorney's Office must make clear what Article 3 of the Law on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185258	Thank you. Comrade Djakić, thank you, please watch your time. Come in, mate Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185259	The Croatian judiciary, if they cut it out by age and by report, everything would be repainted into this report that we now have in front of us, nothing was done properly. It's been let down that the criminals are leaving, leaving Vukovar who have committed crimes, allowed citizens to recognize them in the streets, it's left, the people are left alone and there's no protection, no protection like there was no protection in '91 when it was 18.11. The Vukovar fell. They don't have protection, they don't have satisfaction for everything they've been made and that's it. Croatian society should be ashamed of those who did not do what they needed and what they were paid for, and these are all officials who are called through certain services, shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185260	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. First, to express my dissatisfaction that we have waited so long means a report for 2017 and 2018, we are discussing in 2020, which means that we are two and a few years behind schedule, which, of course, our citizens and those who are following this session will certainly be unfavourable, but yet it is much less embarrassing than to be embarrassed how all this together in practice works and how our judiciary in practice works. So it's impossible not to comment on a whole series of processes that we're following in the media these days and the state's attorney said in his reply when I replicated for the first time that this is not the place to talk about specific cases, but Croatian citizens just want to talk about concrete cases. They also want to warn you about state lawyers and us who are legislators who are passing the Law on Criminal Procedure and Croatian Courts and judges want to warn you that it is not normal for certain processes to last 10 and more years for the most corrupt acts, that today in the courtroom, former officials explain how they acquired the first million euros in any of the jobs you can probably not explain to a small child or convince a small child, that it is abnormal that we have a person who is accused of the highest and most serious criminal acts, which cannot explain his property. There are even people who make fun of it that way and they showed the whole paradox of our political system by calling this politician a label cutter that's supposed to be out of fear of seeing that he bought branded furniture during the search, he cut the labels in his home, and normally the citizens want us to talk about it here, and that it's abnormal to look at these people year after year, and that the judiciary doesn't bring the jurisprudences that people are dying of various reasons from disease to this. A co-indictee in the case of Mayor Bandic apologized for the disease, but then regularly comes to Holding for his job, these are all the things our citizens are torturing and about which they want us to talk here. And until we resolve this, I believe that there will be no more trust not only in the judiciary but also in the Croatian Parliament or institutions that are in action. And it all comes from the fact that the highest authorities and the most responsible politicians in this country don't mind being hand-in-hand with such politicians, they're proud. Until yesterday, the president of what are friends, what are they carrying cakes on their birthdays, what will the stove of cakes if the verdict is condemned, Prime Minister Plenkovic agreed with Mayor Bandic when and how he will vote on GUP and, normally, that all of these people are disgusted and that he simply can't take it anymore or accept it and that he simply has to take a step away from that policy. Because please see, when you see a report that is before us and when you see that 96% of the indictments are confirmed on the basis of DORH's and USKOK's applications in Croatian courts, and of those 96% of the charges that have been confirmed, even 90% of them ended in a conviction, then it is very clear to you that with a very large percentage, and it is likely that these accusations we see from day to day for both the former prime minister and the mayor of the city of Zagreb will end in this way because despite the arguments we hear in court of sound logic, ears when we listen to secretly recorded footage, when we hear witnesses say that there is corruption. He is also aware of it, the mayor is aware of it, but from that famous polluting saying, "Let the institutions do their job", but slowly evil comes to all when they hear it. And most often they hear it from HDZ and the mayor of Zagreb, or his party. And I ask you if you might be a little bit more interested, let's say fellow Boric not to talk about internal elections in HDZ and listen and support this kind of thinking, directing Croatian legislation to make our judiciary more effective in this situation probably our citizens would also be more satisfied and have greater confidence in these institutions. It is not only the purpose of having Prime Minister Plenkovic given another term of office of counterpart Boris in HDZ, but it is the purpose of making a state that will be correct, where people will feel justice, where they will trust institutions and where the most important thing in Croatia will not be who and how they will win the internal elections in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185262	Comrade Maras, I'd like to ask you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185263	Because that's irrelevant, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185264	Comrade Maras, please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185265	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185266	Do not call your colleagues in the assembly, we are discussing the topic Report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and please stay away from the names of colleagues in your own language and in your own style as you say so, please touch the topics that are important to you, but I would ask you nicely to stick to the subject and do not call out colleagues and colleagues. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185267	Okay, you're correct, Mr. Vice President, I support your efforts in holding the session, but you must understand me, too, who I'm revolutionized when I talk about such an important topic that my colleagues are not interested in it at all, and in some ways they're probably talking about how much Plenkovic will get votes and how much Kovac will get votes. That means, don't take up anyone trust me from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia except for the current few colleagues. And that's what I wanted to say here, which is why I reacted, once again, I apologize to my colleague, Boric, if it hurt him. Here, sorry don't be angry that moment I felt this little hit, so on that side I had to react. And what's important is I said to bring legal solutions that will allow DORH and USKOK to work quickly and efficiently. That people don't get involved in all sorts of things and avoid being responsible for the recorded crimes they committed by acting as the most responsible and taking advantage of the responsibility they got on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to please themselves, their friends, their interest groups and what I know to whom else. Look at this nonsens in the City of Zagreb we have an institution director who is the first indictee for stealing 40 million kunas of fictitious non-existent public procurement, who has confirmed the indictment and still works as director of the institution. Well, it's from movies like Don Corleone, I'm looking after you, you're watching over me. So you know how much this man would work with a mayor who holds on to the law and who holds on to the institution and who holds on to public money? He would no longer be head of the institution for two seconds, and Mayor Bandic has held him for years even though he has been charged with 40 million kuna. And now the question is, why is he doing it, why is he protecting this man? I think the answer is probably clear to everyone in this assembly, and it's probably not hard to prove it, and it's probably going to end up with that man singing when he needs to put all of his assets in stock to get that money back, but time goes by, the years go by, the money is still being spent that way because these people manage that money. And on this side, as long as HDZ supports such a policy, it lives off such a policy at the state level, as long as we all don't make a system together and we don't give the laws that will solve such cases within a short period of time until the people in the Republic of Croatia have no confidence in us, they won't trust the institutions, they won't trust the DORH in the USK, and they won't move out of our country. And so I call you once again, don't think about who will win Kovac or Plenkovic, think about how to make a better country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185268	Thank you, colleague Maras. Replica, dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185269	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, you spoke of citizens' trust, so this is one of the messages that needs to be left from this assembly today because citizens have lost confidence in the Republic of Croatia in the entire system, especially in the judiciary. However, a phrase that is not good is entangled. So citizens say they don't believe in justice. When it comes to justice, when it is said that there is no trust, it is actually meant by several parts of that judiciary. It's the police, it's the state's attorney's office, it's the judiciary. We are talking about the state's attorney's office today, but the biggest problem in Croatia is the judiciary. You yourself said that over 90% of the charges filed by the state's attorney's office will be confirmed, the verdicts made. However, the rule of the judiciary is that it brakes, the judiciary rules that the son of a general with 4kg of marijuana and EUR 120,000 is working for the common good and does not end up in prison. So the judiciary is a bigger problem than the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185270	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185271	I agree with you and therefore I appeal once again to change the laws so that there should be more responsibility in such actions, so that the courts will be more controlled and that eventually people will feel that justice is being done, and not that it can be avoided depending on whether you are the son of a general, whether you are a friend of a powerful, mayor or minister. Once again, I tell you, to whom here in the assembly is unclear why the gentleman I mentioned earlier was the doctor one who was accused of 40 million kuna embezzlement still sitting at the head of an institution that had a touch and had a contact with public money, and there he is being held by the mayor Bandic. Who makes it unclear why? It's probably clear to everyone and probably everyone can assume each other and that money. So until we figure this out, trust me, the institutions won't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185272	Thank you, colleague Maras. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues, so I must at first express my dissatisfaction with the fact that two years after some events we have been discussing, or three years we have been discussing this report, it is not your fault, but perhaps at a symbolic level it provides, outlines essentially the best situation in the judiciary and in everything that is happening because we are late and how slow the judiciary is so slow and our reports and discussions on reports in HS. I'm not going to talk about some specific cases and catch up on these individual examples, I want to talk about some of my thinking that I came to when I saw this report, so I'm also looking at these essentially statistical indicators, these are statistical indicators that show the number of cases, their success, the courts, etc., your conclusion in the end is that you're missing people, that you lack the funds, and I believe that that, however, when I see these statistics, they show that 90%, more than 90% of them, we've heard from colleagues, the cases you've launched, or the charges you've filed are essentially confirmed and that in fact more than 90% of the convictions you've made are condemned. Now I'm curious, in fact, it would be interesting to see which punishments in certain cases are certain, certain cases convicted because it would be seen because it is the same judgment for example. When we talk about corruption and peeling potatoes or some prison sentence, it might be a good thing to see the structure of those judgments, and another thing, when I see that in fact 90% of the verdicts are confirmed by the state's attorney's office that you've launched, and we don't see the number of cases that are processed, or we don't see the number of cases that you've ever filed, I think that this figure is 90%, more than 90% of the evidence ends up in evidence, shows to me that maybe there's a lack of determination in the state's attorney's office or that you might just go to safety, that there may be objects that are very likely and have some elements of criminal acts, but maybe you don't judge the evidence of this character, and the fact that you're in fact that you're going to be able to see this part of the money, On the other hand, just when we look at certain judgments or certain, well, decisions of the courts, I'll say so, we often see that sometimes the public doesn't care that the court is for example. let some, some people defend themselves from freedom, not respect the state's attorney's proposals for punishment, for detention in custody, etc. I'm curious, I don't know if you in the state's attorney's office have ever handled any judges, if it's obvious, that they may be making some judgments that are not in accordance with the law, often the state's attorney's office complains about some, some judgments of some courts, considers the state's attorney's office not appropriate, now I'm wondering if the state's attorney's office is still taking a little under control, and some judges who are moving in some suspicious societies and are making suspicious judgments, or if there's still a criminal complaint to come, so someone has to report to a judge for a certain act that he's suspected that he may have made a liberating verdict or some kind of judgment based on some kind of connection with some people, whether you're investigating it or already on official duty you can come in, in, in, in, in, in, in the space to see what's happening. Most of the time, these are some of my thoughts that I wanted to share with you, and if you could answer me something, something on that, on that trail, here's so much from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185274	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185275	Thank you, Vice President HS. Since I have done my work in the assembly, and I have dealt with the European funds in this part of it before, I will look back on it. So, the Republic of Croatia has EUR 10.7 billion available for use, many of that money goes to public users, so Croatian water and there are major projects of agglomeration, etc. What happens during the procedures of the projects themselves is long-term public procurement procedures, later bodies or ARPA agencies or bodies within the system, meaning the Ministry of Regional Development, establish certain irregularities. Irregularity is not only a result of irregularities, it is an illegal act. I'm interested, so any irregularity is the result of illegal treatment, so if there has been, and we have a case that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in many cases says there's been a wrong choice, there's been a wrong choice of who, who's the supplier, what the State Attorney's Office is doing in this regard, and how do you look at this situation because, when the projects are being implemented, we've had a billion from that membership, now we have 10 billion, that's 10 times more money, and now you know that when these public procurements go through, when the projects are completed, when they're implemented, there's a useful permit, only then are certain controls going on. We put it in the statement of expenditure, Brussels then approves of it and it can happen that this money is lost forever for Croatian users, so it would be useful for us to have a system at which we would already have the moment when we know that illegal behavior is to sanction the appropriate way and the responsible person, and the responsible person and the employee who brought it to this because responsibility must have a name and last name. I'd be talking here because I've talked about this before, one case of budgetary uneconomic use of money. During the term of office of the former Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, we had a certain software solution, as I had previously worked at the Ministry of Administration, I am aware that the Ministry of Administration had repeatedly purchased certain software solutions, which in particular coincided with what the Ministry of Regional Affairs sought in its acquisition at the beginning of 2018. I also asked Mr. Zdravko Marić's finance minister in response to an interpretation of the article. 11. The Budget Law and to tell me how the Ministry of Finance controls the economics of spending on budget money. That's the answer I got the shrill response that actually, the moment the funds were certified, they'd come forward, so there's no answer. I'd like to say, so Minister Žalac has made a 5.7 million kuna purchase for PLUR, she said that only one company can work for that and that it is an authorial solution that is needed. Through several changes, five changes were no longer 5.7 million kuna but 9.8 million kuna. A company reported in the tender, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures cancelled the tender, the Regional Ministry had to pay 45,000 kuna, but the responsible person did not bear any responsibility for it. In the spring of 2018, a tender of 13 million kuna is rescheduled, and an offer comes from a company that had previously been blocked for more than 6 months, there is one employee who is also the director and owner and everything else, delivered within 30 days a software solution of 13 million kuna, less than 9,000 kuna, so the figure has been offered so much. I'm interested in the fact that this kind of use of public money that the State's Attorney's Office has checked whether or not it ends up in a conflict of interest or the Committee of Conflict of Interest and how much State's Attorney's Office has, in the last few years since you've been in charge and before, when you already have knowledge of these reports that you've initiated proceedings against officials on the basis of which the Committee of Conflict of Interest has ruled that they are in conflict of interest? As I was saying today in the opening question, and I believe you were surprised by the theme of Marjana, so here's what I'd like to look back on, I'd like to talk to you about it. So one of the main tasks of the DORH is the protection of the property, the property interests of the Republic of Croatia and the taking of actions to protect the Constitution and the law. It is undeniable that protected parts of nature are cultural goods, maritime goods as well as forests and forest land areas of particular interest for Croatia and enjoy its special protection. The fact that the area of the park forest Marjan is an area of multiple special interest for the Republic of Croatia because it is a protected part of nature, culturally well, is a historical whole, is a maritime good and an area dominated by forest and forest land. It is undeniable that in November 2017, the Split Law firm found that there was no legal basis for the entry of property of the city of Split into the forest and forest land in the protected area of Park Šuma Marjan. The Inspection of Nature Protection in March 2019 warned the Mayor of Split of the Unacceptability of the way in which the rescue was carried out and pointed to the criminal act of devastation of the forest. It is indisputable that the State Inspectorate's forest inspection in October last year established and assessed that the operation has the elements of the crime of deforestation. It is undeniable that the Faculty of Construction, Architecture and Geodesy of the University of Split registered 75 illegally built buildings in Marjan Park. It is undeniable that the State Inspectorate's Construction Inspectorate established in June 2019 in the concentrated area of maritime goods, covering a multi-protected area of as many as 16 illegally built buildings. This is only part of the established illegalities covered by the Marjan Park Forests for which no one has yet claimed any responsibility, which generates further illegal activities resulting from the creation of legal uncertainty in this multiple protected area enjoyed by the special protection of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder if the territory of multiple protected areas is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and one of the symbols of the city of Split, Marjan Forest Park Exteriorial Area, and what do you intend to do about implementing the law of the Republic of Croatia in that part of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185276	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185277	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Beljak has announced that he will propose a law on the investigation of the origin of the property. The law existed in Croatia until the 1990s, and then it was abolished and stopped applying it and all the procedures that were under way. The law should be reintroduced to examine the assets that people had at the beginning of the establishment of the Croatian state and which they have today. So if I can prove her origins to the office, if not to start persecuting them. However, Beljak immediately experienced the answer and a very rough response in Samobor where the expensive defenders were suffering from PTSD from all over Croatia, I don't know who paid for their buses to get there, it would also be interesting to find out. And what a rally it was, a statement from a woman who said, in the Homeland War, we beat the winners of II. World War I. Winners II. World War I was anti-fascists, she placed herself in fascists. So if that statement is not for prosecution I don't know which should be the proof one to see yet fascism isn't defeated in Croatia until the end. They become nervous because Zoran Milanovic beat, HDZ candidate lost the election, and they brought down that government in that tent of his famous one with the sentence "Both have fallen, both will fall", and as we can see, this one took off again, and it flew very high. But it's not easy for you, it's not easy, it's a direct request from you, you're being told what you have to do, you're being prosecuted. There is a member of parliament who is threatened, which is also sad, punishable, but you are determined how to work there. And not only there, it happens in the Council of War Veterans Committee, it is directly asked by the courts to pass judgments, not parole or rejection of criminal charges, which is your concern because criminal charges are filed with you, it starts to act differently. I listen today in debates, everyone understands how you should work, and the attorney general has his own assistants who also carry out a prosecution and who certainly wouldn't be able to let a lot of things be covered up because there are a lot of them, and in the end there are you. I don't know why people have the impression that only small criminals are being prosecuted and that this huge crime and corruption remain unpunished. In 2011, in recent amendments to the Constitution, we adopted a provision on non-depreciation of war profit, and I know that the State's Attorney's Office took some steps after that amendment to the Constitution, and it seems to me that there are still a lot of free-walkers in Croatia. Well, now I don't know if they haven't been able to gather evidence against them strong enough to initiate a criminal trial or if these people are being watched through their fingers? Here we are watching now almost live can be followed by this trial of HDZ and Sanader for Fimi Media and there we see Sanader accusing the Jarnjak, the Jarnjak says he's been accused of total nonsense, that's where he's being tried for stealing 50 million kunas, it's not small money 50 million kunas, it's just all these processes that last forever. And a verdict is passed, as is the case in the INA-MOL affair, which is inadmissible in which Sanader was also convicted, although it is a decision to separate gas business from the INA as a preparation for this corruption affair with Hernadia to make... to the entire government. And all the ministers who were there voted for that decision. Well, I'm curious now, and then why did only Sanader, when the ministers assisted in this, help? I also agree with my colleague Jovanovic, who said not everything on the State's Attorney's Office, and the courts are there that create complete mistrust in the justice system. So why does the son of a general get a sentence of labour for the common good or former Minister of Agriculture also HDZ, of course, should not, in particular, be emphasized by the Guli potatoes for serious crime, serious theft, and some other petty criminals are convicted of serious prison sentences. So, I'm trying to protect you by quoting an article. 312. The Penal Code, which is a coercion to a judicial officer and I warn you that this happens too often, too often, everyone allows himself to attack either a state attorney or a judge or a judicial official and I urge you to move more courageously, a little more determined to pursue capitals, certainly has them, and then through this persecution I think we will gradually begin to return faith in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185278	Thank you. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185279	Your Honor, Vice President. You are challenging Beljak's proposal to determine the law of origin of the property, so at least Beljak is known for all activities. However, you who are the main culprit for abolishing the Commission for determining the victims of war and porn, you are interesting when you support this law and it would be great if the origin of the property could be determined and it would have been known that in some time ago, it was there in '45. Some liberator came to Zagreb in September to bring two and take to Draskovic's apartment a four-person river and that would be to determine the origin of the property that would be acceptable for Croatian society to correct all the injustices that were done to the Croatian man. To determine the origin of the property, but since '45. and determine who was used in the Homeland War, who were war profiteers, and we know whose followers and whose children, whose heirs and who robbed the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185280	Thank you very much. Would you like some? Nothing. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185281	Thank you very much. You were talking about citizens about trust in court practice, so what is the meaning of the entire judicial vertical of the police through the DORH to the judiciary? To prevent crime. Unfortunately, in Croatia, there is no deterrence from corruption because in Croatia, due to the lengthy process of the investigation, and in particular to judicial proceedings that are difficult to manipulate, both lawyers and judges themselves, citizens do not trust the judiciary, and crime and corruption pay off. Therefore, a trail of money should be monitored, it should be severe in the judgment of all criminal acts and must not be allowed to apply to Orwell's '84 animal farm in Croatia in 2020. where they are all equal, but some if they have certain cards more equal and that's why citizens don't trust the judiciary, so they leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185282	Thank you. Reply fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185283	Yes, in Croatia there is the impression that it is worth crime, that it is worth being corrupt because if you are close to the government nothing will happen to you. Well, look at every normal state if one party were tried for the theft of 50 million kunas and that party would cease to exist. In every normal state, but because this process has been going on for 10 years, that's why people have the impression, not anything, if I go to HDZ alone, so there are so many members, I go to HDZ and I can steal there peacefully. The party will help me, the courts won't judge me, the state's attorney won't haunt me and I'm protected as a northern bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185284	Thank you. Next debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185285	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so today when we talk about the report on the work of the State's Attorney General for 2017 and the 2018 State's Attorney General's Report, I have to say that here I am, with the latest statements of our colleagues, shocked when they talk not only about unemployment and disorder, but about everything they know, and still just sitting there and not reported it to anyone. Because I think it's the duty of every citizen, and especially of a parliamentary representative when he knows that someone in such a corrupt shop or some kind of evil to inflict on these citizens and the state that he's obliged to report it. In fact, we go back to this report, the report says, and it shows that the rate of urgency from year to year is getting better, that the time of settlement of the case is getting shorter even though we have fewer deputies and advisers, that the municipal state attorney, the DORH, have an increasing number of resolved cases, all of them together as county state attorneys and USKOK have fewer unsolved cases, but I think even though I agree with Chief State Attorney Jelenić that we should look at people, and not the number of people in this debate today deserve those who have been most valuable to praise them, and it would be best for them to get some kind of satisfaction and in their better and bigger incomes, so that those who have now had a large number and resolved cases, and have been much more up-to-date that in the coming period, and that we don't get those who were so much better and the worst to do so on the last ones. In fact, when we look at the results and indicators of the municipal state attorney's office, we see that the municipal state's attorney's office in Zadar has a deputy, an adviser of as many as 477 solved cases, unlike the municipal state's attorney's office in Osijek, where we have twice the amount of 229 items solved. In Zagreb, the average procedure lasts a little less than 270 days while in Slavonski Brod 47 days. Surely it doesn't matter if we have objects where the unknown perpetrator is that then we need 510 days, unlike non-partisan items, where only 8 days is enough to solve the case. When it comes to county state attorneys, Velika Gorica, who has 341 cases solved by his deputy or adviser, has only 78 cases in Osijek. In Pula, the average time of settlement of the case is 17 days, unlike the County State's Attorney's Office in Sibenik, where it takes 120 days. I have to pay attention to everyone here because it is certain that those who have read that this will be critical of the County State Attorney's Office in Sibenik, however, by the deputy, have twice as many resolved cases as Osijek was mentioned earlier, which means that there are no employees missing in Sibenik. When we look at the part about accommodation and the lack of business space, it says that it is precisely in the County and Municipal State Attorney's Office in Sibenik, there are major problems with the workplace, that it is not enough, is not adequate and therefore it is not possible to hire new necessary employees. However, in December of last year, work began in Sibenik at 1,700 m2 of new spaces worth over 18 million kunas. There will be all judicial bodies operating in the area of the city of Sibenik or Sibenik-Knin County, so here is my appeal to start already with the call for tenders and the receipt of new employees so that Sibenik can achieve even better results and have as few unsolved cases as possible. When we look at the structure of criminal charges by the applicant, we can see that when it comes to police reports received, everything may be about 18% rejected. When it comes to staying, so those who include citizens' and other state bodies' applications here have almost 70% of rejected applications, I would dare say when we reject these other state bodies means both the Ministry of Administration and so on. that more than 90% of citizens will probably be rejected. You stated in your report, so I would point this out and that colleagues and citizens hear it, says the motives for which applications are submitted are often questionable and are certainly out of the criminal justice zone. Such applications wish to resolve the working aspects of the personal impatience of the applicant and of the reported person. And today the name of the State Attorney's Office is also being placed on them the number of pending cases and no one is saying how many more cases would have been solved if there were no of these unfounded applications, and because of them they cannot safely deal with those filed by the police, the IRS, etc. It is necessary to say what and who will be responsible for these applications and who will bear these costs because we are all very happy to say that more resources should be allocated to the State's attorney's office but I have not heard from any of our fellow MPs when we have budgeted that they have invested the amendment and have struggled to get a larger amount of funding from the State's Attorney's Office. There's a lot of talk about corruption, about leaving our young people, and then I went to pay particular attention to that part. 57 persons have been reported for the crime of taking bribes and 57 persons have been reported during the reporting period and 49 persons have been rejected. For the criminal offence of public procurement, there was no application at all. For the criminal offence of bribery, 5 persons reported with regard to which the resolutions on the rejection of the criminal application have been made. A criminal offence of abuse of position and authority, of a total number of 834 applications, in the work for the crime dismissed 800. What can be concluded? It's about slander, slander for political purposes. For the last time, I would still look back from two sentences to this 2017 report, which was written in a completely different way than that of 2018, I have to admit that even in some parts, I like it. For example. This part relating to the entry of maritime goods. He says the same registration problems remain, the consequences in all situations when it comes to maritime well-being, ownership registration, the state's attorney's office will have to start litigation. So far, the practice of land courts has been very different, so some have acted conservatively, rejected proposals, some have made an extraordinary audit, etc., it's all explained. We all swear very strongly to the maritime well, however, it should be said that the maritime good is not only done by a private person but by infrastructure, for example. In the area of the town of Vodice, the second phase of construction of the sewerage system also predicts on the maritime well-defined infrastructure pipes and even the road stations, we have a lot of problems just about enrolling maritime goods, so here is an appeal for you to do what you can on your own side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185286	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185287	Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, you have reached a very important topic when you mentioned rejected applications. So 18,000, 12 rejected, with other applicants over 90%. Today during this debate, we heard how many attacks, so many words spoken, and even accused both the state's attorney and the attorney's office, and these are directly corrupt in some cases. Isn't it finally time to look at what a percentage is, what a huge number of hours of work are spent in some kind of called criminal charges, largely inciting it for some personal or political reasons, and isn't it finally time for such a thing to start sanctioning? Where it was founded, where it was really pointed out something, where it was finally processed, it should be rewarded but this is in every way holding back the work and the State's Attorney's office and then courts because it's a huge number, a huge number of hours... People who have to deal with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185288	Thank you. Answer, esteemed colleague of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185289	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klaric, I have just asked what to do with the applicants, not only these writings but also those who have said many today, I would dare say, untrue. Will they be held accountable, and will tomorrow take the costs they cause with these very false reports and slanders?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185290	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185291	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, State Attorney, I'm going to try briefly to complete that debate I had on behalf of the club. In fact, there's been more than one thesis here today, and we can also back it up with a statement by the attorney general, and I'm going to quote just one part of that report. Citizens cite as the most common reason for emigration an unorganised and poorly-run state, corruption and employment of similar party people, as well as a sense of hopelessness and imperceptibility. So, as we see, in the Republic of Croatia, perceptions are not only about creating a picture of the society in which we live, but it has serious consequences in terms of many people who leave this country because they do not see the potential for success either on the basis of their abilities and in this individual case, which you rightly say you will not comment here today, citizens rightfully wonder whether it is possible for people who are convicted or accused of serious crimes to pass past the judicial system, in fact not to be punished until those who for minor offences are mostly punished and citizens feel it on their own skin, so I have heard a recent case that a man for three liters of oil has been punished by a drastic penalty. But let's go back to what I wanted in the debate and it's about this report of yours. So RH either sues or she's sued. Now I'm worried about this fact, it was 2018, I don't know last year there were the same cases, you probably know now what cases it's been working in, the Republic of Croatia has been sued in 3871 cases, the largest number of these cases relate to work disputes. So almost 40%. Now, the Ministry of State Assets is the most represented in litigation cases related to the request for payment of these real-legal claims, it's not weird, though what's strange? And before that, please explain this part of the report when the Republic of Croatia also intervened in litigation on the part of the defendant health institutions. Which means a mix of litigation because it's probably county then hospitals or what, I don't understand what it means that the Republic of Croatia has interfered if you can explain. The Ministry of Defence has 1036 disputes, but beware of this most working disputes 722 concerning the demands of the military personnel to pay the pay difference on the basis of duty and guard services. There are also requests from active military personnel sent to the international force in Afghanistan. So, it's not a good message if the ministry as the largest state body has, this is how it treats workers. The MUP refers to 573 items of which 431 subjects refer to labour disputes. So here again, the demands of police officers seeking compensation for civil suits and payment of field accessories, and their demands also based on a collective contract for officials and tenants. Also, the Ministry of Finance, 483 items, and 272 even again at the request of civil servants of customs officials to pay the pay difference from the base of overtime, work in shifts and tours, holidays and others, while other disputes relate to the part of the tax administration. Then the Ministry of Agriculture has 478 cases, mainly agricultural land disputes. So these are things where the state does not show or the state does not respect labour rights. In this case, you're standing on the opposite side, so out of the interests of the workers, let's say, so let's put it this way, the workers are looking, and you represent the state in the sense that it doesn't pay them off if I understand it well. The bankruptcy proceedings, which is why you have stated here that when it comes to bankruptcy proceedings, the bankruptcy managers often recognise the reported claims of the Republic of Croatia as claims of the second higher payment order, but they are rarely settled because the right of the claim-making championship has the demand of the first higher payment order, the demand of the workers, which is fine, and most often there is not enough property to settle from. What I'm interested in when it comes to certain state-owned enterprises, here's the last fresh oil case, why is it taking so long, why does the state's attorney's office before taking the actions that they should take, is the truth that these are the political decisions about, here were the words about the rescue of the Ulanik, and it went to the 1865 oil company where the bankruptcy manager claimed there were conditions, so, well, even though the conditions for bankruptcy are still circumstances that could prevent bankruptcy, which is why the state waits so long for simple things to get out of hand and there's no longer the possibility of settlement? Of course, I understand that this is about saving jobs and continuing production. But what concerns more, you say, is that the bankruptcy managers have begun to dispute the reported demand of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the first higher payment order with the reason that the Republic of Croatia is not authorised to report the claim on the basis of the salary contribution and the salary as the first higher payment order and that the Republic of Croatia cannot be a bankruptcy believer for the claims of the first higher payment order. Here, the question is raised here, some colleagues told me that when it comes to the rights of workers to be recognised as a job internship, but there is no payment on that job, so the state can't apply as a believer for the first payment order, these are contributions from wages and wages, so it also contributes to pension insurance and is asked with the right question what is with the second pillar if it is not paid, if the state can't settle there, is the state then taking responsibility, so it pays workers in the second pillar from, from, from, the budget? If you can explain that. So this raises the question of how, in bankruptcy proceedings, how does the state actually protect its interests, but also the interests of workers? And what I mentioned today, and that's this part of the story about, which the state's attorney's office has noticed is that pre-fashion proceedings are being reopened on, on, on companies that have already passed pre-fashion proceedings, which is certainly wrong with, in relation to positive legislation. Therefore, it is noted that companies which have concluded a pre-departure settlement under the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, therefore which have already reduced the claims of the Republic of Croatia and other creditors, are joining newly established companies that, shortly after the opening of the pre-departure procedure and are again reducing their claims, and you say that you cannot verify this because the courts do not check, are already making a decision to open the pre-departure proceedings. It is, once again, that, according to the last report we have from the FINA, it's about here, when we talk about pre-fashion proceedings, about 50, over 50 billion kuna, so that's a significant asset. And what I am ultimately interested in, and related to, the very public procurement procedures, in particular the bagatelical acquisitions, what is the opinion of the state's attorneyship in this sense, not in terms of the persecution of witches to express myself, but in terms of whether this legislation should strengthen control over, over these procedures, whether you consider a legislative framework as good as it is because the assessment is that through public procurement procedures is lost, not only in the Republic of Croatia, it's not that problem, in the Republic of Croatia it's perhaps more pronounced because of the situation in the economy, that some 10% of the funds end up in private pockets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185292	Thank you. Replica esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185293	Dear colleague Žagar, it is a good thing you mentioned labour rights and items that have also appeared in this report, such as previous colleagues. who, Stazic, were talking about exactly how all evil is happening, in fact, from HDZ did not mention what happened to the amendment of the Payment Act, for example. the overtime of doctors who then buried the courts with numerous cases, and for this reason, this government must now find solutions to how to pay for exactly all these backlogs and lawsuits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185294	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185295	Dear colleagues, therefore, it is said, you are talking about health workers, and the lawsuit of these educational workers is also a significant budget, regardless of which government it will be to face these are huge funds that should be paid and I agree with you that each government must be responsible when it refers to labour rights because it will eventually come for payment. Here I am the day before yesterday, I think I'm here on Friday, sorry, on Friday I was telling the case, maybe it's an example of a banana, but the County Hospital in Virovitica it's a significant asset due to an unwarranted dismissal now the former director has to pay off 500,000 kuna damages, these are things to think about anyone who's responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185296	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185297	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about two DORH reports for 2017 and 2018. In fact, I never seem to have a faster discussion about the DORH reports, although I have waited very long and thanked the state attorney for taking away the basic thing that the MPs wanted to discuss at the outset, which is that we are talking about individual cases and that then the state's attorney is showing up and talking individually about who's guilty, who's not guilty. I think that's a good point of direction, it went in a completely different direction, although, of course, politicians can't get away from these issues because they're daily. And of course we came to that, this was one easy debate, actually maybe the easiest one, you find two, three in the opposite camp, and then it's nice ten minutes, so by them however you like. Mostly our colleagues on the other side found inspiration in us, and here I am some inspiration in them, but unfortunately there aren't many of them, so now I don't know whether to speak until the end or yes, but I'll say it either. Here's what I'm going to say, because this is where a man who was still in the campaign offered bribes to his fellow Parliamentarian, it went out and out, that's what the media said, etc., and then this fellow escaped into the second camp. He says here's 500 euros a week I'll give you a reward at the end when the whole process is over, no, because a satisfied man works better. And he says here today, pick up the state's attorney half of Parliament and take them out, they're all corrupt, that one, there's no regrets here. And so every day, every day, we hear what the policy is about a state lawyer doing a job for politics, for politicians. The more he focuses on capitalists or politicians from some camp, whether from SDP, HDZ or other parties it is he who is more successful, it is he who is more successful and his job is viewed or perceived exclusively through it. On the side of everything that's written here on hundreds of pages in two reports, nothing matters, nothing. We've been listening to the one who's gonna pretend to be some kind of prime minister tomorrow, so the DROH doesn't do anything, nothing. Exactly why did he say that? Because there's no capital, there's no such thing as the events we've witnessed that this stranger was supposed to be some kind of help getting close to some kind of government. And that's why the hack every day and they're not even ashamed to come here to say such a lie, a lie to one system, it's a system from municipal, county to state's attorney, thousands of people for whom excuses don't do anything to God, do nothing, do nothing for one year. And not to mention, unfortunately, he couldn't even figure out that this was a two-year report, he was only talking about once so well prepared, to find out that that year, I don't know, got into that system of 180,000 things like this or something like that. It's a shame when of those 180 plus what you inherit you solve more than two thirds of 75% or 80% and then those forts don't do anything. This is how the work of the DORH is perceived because what we would argue at all if we didn't talk about doing it in a way that we should enjoy, that our colleagues in the Parliament are calling for crime, for corruption, that they're bad, I guess we'd enjoy getting them out of here by some cops, etc. Because that's what politics is about, that's what politics is about. The worse that's up there, the better I am, and we've been listening all day. That's all that matters and it's relevant. Who gives a shit about marine well-being? There are those who protect them there, here's the DORH, one big... nothing, just political capitalists, I admit, it's the work of the DORH, if there's nothing you're doing. In doing so, not me, not me, we have no sin. On the other hand, I've found two, they say when you leave the government or 10 ministers go that the government is corrupt. The government of Zoran Milanovic left 10 corruption-marked ministers, pre-profit deals did not mean corruption. I think the director of the IRS has ended up in some kind of procedure, so we have one mayor who runs the process I don't know how many already, but it's not that. We can't see anything in our backyard in our own eye, we see everything in another camp, they're all like that. And then the finale, we created an anti-corruption coalition. Who's in that coalition? SDP with some weird scholarships from the president of the party, so some GLAS lady with all conflicts of interest, etc., some gentleman etc., etc., it's an anti-corruption alliance. Let's get to the perception we're all out of diapers, bravo, that's the debate. Now we're gonna say here they're all there or the entire Parliament as we heard it today, all corrupt here. On... what kind of debates are these? Don't look at it I say a little statistics. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: 142,000 items plus 64 inherited, so over 200,000 items are solved almost 187,000, a daily 700 items need to be solved, not just what I look at, so I throw, something needs to be solved. That system's working something out. We say it's lazy, no one does anything because we ourselves are the most important, politicians to ourselves, to citizens easily. So we have stories about who's more or who's less than something but such a debate used to be here, there have been heated debates here,... All day long, here we will end today I think at 4:5 because fundamentally it was what Mr. Jelenić said first, so we will not talk about concrete things, about specific things, because what we heard from other colleagues, so the judiciary is the same part of a story, and we also discuss them when reports come here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why put everything on someone? We chose him all together here two years ago, I don't think, all about the state's attorney's office because there's no political capital. Every day in some kind of affair, everything became an affair, a view of the property card, the same moment of the affair, okay, but what's next? And in the end about the marine good. And as a local leader, we have problems, and it's not easy for us to accept when a commission determines the limit of maritime goods and takes us, say, 17,000 m2 along the beach on some particle that was our property. That's the problem. And the State's Attorney's Office is proposing settlements and we hardly accept the settlements because that's our value, the square of the country by the sea is 200, 300 euros, on the beach especially. And it's not easy to accept no matter how the enrollment took place. There was a commission, this border could go like this, and anyway, she's gone somehow, no, we got a problem. We come to the council because even the commissioners can't make such a decision themselves, no, yet decisions are made by a representative body because they manage the property, councillors say we won't be guessing, let the state take us out nicely, i.e. Let us pay for what she took from us, at least a few because there are some items in the budget that say that something should be done and that doesn't work, and there really needs to be some solutions because I agree that we should be given some land. Will the state give us or won't? It gives the state, always gives if these are projects, I don't know, for dumps, for the development of zones, business zones, etc., we can't say that the state doesn't give but of course local self-government is dependent on the central state, always wants one piece of what kind of satisfaction is, and I think it should be found there now, I see that it's quite well described here in this report, find a really better regulation that will still find some moments that doesn't always turn out to be right because we're part of that country, too, no, and it's not easy for us to accept that we had one value that's missing at the moment, and indeed these values are quite large, especially when we say, I don't know, islands, coast, where there are really valuable land that unfortunately marine good cut off and we're unfortunately, we're not. Here's the thing, in the end, I really don't need to value the policies that the DORH expect him to be a self-porter to have his policy as power tomorrow because it means that I don't know anything else, that he wants to deal with just some moments that should be helpful, but what are you going to offer these citizens besides saying that others are bad? It's a question, let's compete with what we know and what our mission is, knowledge, programs, etc. Not only did he not bring in or take in the DORH. It's the only thing relevant. So here, I support this report and my colleagues on the other hand, I just want to invite you to clean up in your backyard before they look into someone else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185298	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185299	Dear counterpart Boris, you mentioned people who accuse, who call and there is an old folk and she talks about who talks about honesty the most. From your experience and from my experience, from the experience of the vast majority of us here, if we were to look at all of these 90% of the reported reports, and if we went to see what the people who reported them for and why they reported them, most of them would have just found that they were involved in something that they reported someone else for. So much for that. So, this example of your minister on the other hand, which is not mentioned here, and everything that's happened in the past, if you want to clean yourself up, accuse the other even if it's unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185300	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185301	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, when you talk about honesty, the SDP always talks about honesty, if you mean SDP. So they're the ones that I say, like they came out of diapers and there's nothing behind them, no matter how many judicial proceedings against some of their members, how many judgments, etc., it's important to make an impression and perceive everyone else. Not us, don't look at us, don't look at us, and so all day long, and then we hear one colleague who found out that '45. They haven't finished their work properly and they're doing the doctoring, they're trying to figure out how to behave, and it's justifiable that he said it. Here's the debate on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. To say again we haven't done a good job, and that's fine, even the other colleague who said it, that's even better, that's how the debate works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185302	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185303	Thank you very much. Col. Boric, you were the 17th speaker today if I am not wrong with those who have replicated, very interesting that no one in the debates is discussing this report, mentioning the conditions in which the State's Attorney's Office works because if you want someone to be successful, then you need to see the conditions under which they work, how technically they are equipped, how much money is being exposed to education because we need to be aware of who they are to say "fight" are highly educated and highly technically equipped, so today no one has talked about it and if we talk about the success of the State's Attorney's Office, then it's one of the most important if not the most important moments. The second thing, it's not the state's attorney's office just fighting crime, there's a series of repressive apparatus in the Republic of Croatia, so they should mention what their relationship is with each other because the way they cooperate well, they're all successful. But the easiest thing to do is to accuse someone and sing the fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185304	Thank you. Comrade Boric, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185305	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, so that's what we witnessed today, so today we're being charged, a colleague said, so you have to be in that party, you have to because later on you won't be anything. I can say the same thing. You can be in that party. You can steal. You understand? Because justice only applies to them if they're not touched and we've been listening for 10 years. and today we are offering a 2010 policy, '11st. We remember that policy, no, it's the same people, they haven't changed anything, and we hear that's the only reason why someone should take responsibility for the citizens tomorrow, because they only know it, and they don't know anything, and they underestimate people who solve 100,000 or 200,000 items a year and say they're lazy, and they show up here once in a Parliament in a week and they tell the other person you're lazy, which is what we're talking about, which is even arguments and relationships that this debate would be in some way... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185306	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185307	Comrade Boric, let's leave this impression, let's face it, just sometimes you can say nonsense here, you've done it today, you can object to the former government a lot, but you can't take a corrupt character and your claim that 9 ministers left because of corruption simply isn't true, let's go to Jovanovic, Rajko Ostojic, no corruption, Komadina left after the 2nd month, no corruption, Cacic we know what happened to causing a car accident this served the sentence, Mimica left the government because he was appointed to second duty in the European institutions, Ms. Cacic. Holy, we know about this case, e-mail, removed, Mr. Veljko Ostojić IDS, Zlatar Violić HNS and Kolega Linić, these are well-known cases in the Croatian, Croatian public, so please don't pick up anything that isn't, besides you were the secretary of state longtime minister who never stopped being a minister And the other name for him who binds himself is corruption. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185308	Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185309	Thank you very much. Since he beat you in Zadar every time you could apologize to him since he was already released in the first degree, so that when you mention him no, purely out of correctness, means whatever you did to him you failed and now, of course, you still succeeded and lost with all of that, it means that people don't trust you, so they don't believe you now that you're no anti-corruption alliance, no matter how you tried to justify this, that there was no corruption, I don't remember, I don't know why the Director of Taxation would end up in the judicial process, how it... Well, that's the same part of the government, don't tell me it's not part of the government, I mean no, and you stick to some examples I don't know 10 years ago. It doesn't matter to you and it's every day... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay, but let's be realistic and say, and now you have such examples and I keep warning you about this gentleman who reported almost 300 real estate not, so if someone can sign himself as chief and on the other hand as CEO of the firm, and what do I think, I can't do that, I don't know why he can, that's the problem for me. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185310	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185311	Thank you, President HS. Dear fellow Boric, here you are trying to get this debate back on track, which is essentially a report on the work of the state's attorney's office, and we can see from the reports that it improves the work of the state's attorney's office even though they are working on a lot of unfavourable conditions, and it is evident from the number of resolved cases, and this is visible from the reports of these two years, and how much this urgency would only be if we didn't have this number of unfounded applications, and we can see from this report that out of 18000, 12000 of them were rejected as unfounded, and if we were to devote this whole time to specific subjects, this report would certainly be even better and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185312	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185313	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Maximchuk, these unfounded applications are sports unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, especially because everyone knows this well about everything he thinks or even as a political goal, so you're unsuitable to him, you're not good enough to talk to all the bodies of repression, he's in some other party, so you just have to get one, two, three or five anonymous ones, so you apologize, maybe 10 of them will be one of them and you'll be a little weaker and that's it, sport and that's what we've got to say because it's just too much wave in the sense that it's really becoming a very simple, simple story and we see how much of it is rejected and how much of that we're not talking about probably now and at the state level, now is an appropriate year and for those things, e.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185314	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185315	Dear fellow Boric, you mentioned the maritime well-being and the listing of the maritime goods i.e. in 2017, but in this report, it is also interesting to note this information relating to the entry of the city and the registration of ownership on apartments and buildings. We know in the cities and municipalities that we inherited and what is the situation with ownership or the booklet of buildings and apartments where often in these buildings is also part of the space relating to cities, county or state, and all of this is what was inherited from 40 and more years ago, and it still couldn't be done much, therefore not all the crime from the origin of this country but there are many things before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185316	Thank you. Comrade Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185317	Thank you very much. So the main thing is that we have a cadastre from there in 1900, so almost 18th century, this is already 19th, and we just have a problem with that, and when there's really a moment to establish the limit of maritime good we as local leaders have a problem, we have a problem and it's written here, there's really 10 pages clearly explained where the Supreme Court clearly said that the state's attorney can't just say, let's just say, this one enrolls in property without being submitted. to conduct litigation, and we're asked to settle it... And that creates a problem for us, I really don't know the city council or the municipal council who's just going to agree to such a peaceful settlement to settle it without having some kind of satisfaction that would at least make up a certain moment, and that's the value of some property that's become a maritime good, and it's listed as property, and that country has to find the moments to do it, and then these problems will probably be solved faster. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185318	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185319	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is a case that has been going on for a long time that is the Hypo Bank case and the documents in this case have begun to be published by research journalist Domagoj Margetic in 1999. And he pointed out essentially that there was crime there, that then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was involved in it and not just him. But what happened was, for 10 years, the public was convinced that Domagoj Margetić was crazy, that Domagoj Margetić didn't know what he was saying, that Domagoj Margetić was talking unfoundedly, etc., but only in 2009 when Ivo Sanader fell out of power, then DORH said, e Mr Margetić give us those papers of yours from the Hypo Bank that you have now we agree against him. And when he came to testify in the DORH they said, when he started talking about all the HDZs involved in it, he said, they told him watch Mr. Margetti try to narrow it down somehow, we're only interested in Sanader, we're not interested now in these other names that are mentioned in the papers. In other words, the state attorney's office does not function in a way that works impartially but selectively and objectively, exclusively by a person who needs to be politically liquidated on that person, and those others who remain part of the system are nothing, ate by a donkey wolf. In the end, Kulterer and Streedinger in Austria were convicted of all those actors from Hypo Bank, Sanader is being tried by us but, crucially, no one else has been convicted, no one has been prosecuted. Why? I have one more question for you regarding the Agrokor case. We all know that the problems in Agrokor didn't start yesterday, or if there were any crimes they didn't, the public didn't find out about them or the DORH a year ago, and no, no, or two years ago, so you knew it all along you had a bunch of there application against Todorovic in drawers, no one just processed it. It stood and simply waited, as in Sanader's case, waiting to slip a man to fall, and then you came along as there now as the DORH it's looking for additional funds as we go after Todorovic now. Now that the whole ballad is over, now you're dealing like I would dare say who the undertakers are coming when the man's already dead and what politically or economically dead so now you're going after him. Such conduct of the DORH simply does not offer or raise hope that institutions are objective. I'm going to give you another example, an example of a lawsuit against me that haunts me for writing graphite. For 5 years this has been going on since 2015, I don't even know where the process ends, the file's got 160 pages, but just so you know what your colleagues in DORH are doing, which is what they're dealing with, it's something they've been engaged in, but I don't mind if I've done something wrong to answer, away from that, far from that, but give it to the gentlemen of the HDZ who signed the Fami Media affair, they signed the payments young man, that they took money from the black funds. The lady who was the cashier testified about it, there are signatures, there are figures and it's clear to everyone from the plane that it was about a hunt that wasn't legal at the end of the day money was brought to the DORH. So how did that money get into the DORH? That you gentlemen know, you know that Mr. Bacic carried that money in the DORH that was black money, that in the end they would claim, or not you, but HDZ that they actually don't know what kind of money it was, that there were no black funds, maltene that they didn't know why the process was being run. And the question is how will this process end. I'm asking when the HDZ is going to pay back 23 million kuna? Well that's the essential question, that's the people of my core question, I've been out here every time I ask it. Now I'm asking you state's attorney when? It'll be until Judgment Day or never. When? And what's shocking, what's terrible is that for years Margetic has pointed to one another for years. Absolutely nothing happened, absolutely nothing happened, absolutely nothing. And now we have a Danko Conchar case, a man suddenly appears as a multimillionaire, the same thing. Margetic argues it is money that has been drawn from Croatia, and on the other hand you do not ask the state's attorney and the state at all when he comes and says I have half a billion euros, for example. Or 500 million kunas of whatever, so no one asks him of you, Mr. Concar, so what kind of a successful entrepreneur are you? Give us the origin of that money. And why am I questioning the origin of Danko Conchar's money? You know why, because in Finland he was sentenced to 50, to 40 and almost 100 million fines, respectively. Why? Why, since the question has been raised, various questions have been raised about his business. To the Finns what is suspicious, the Finns who have thrown a fine of EUR 40 million and later raised it, their business is questionable to them, but Danko Konačar is obviously untouchable in Croatia. And I wonder if Danko Končar has to go down Sanader and Todorovic so you can investigate him? That's the question I'm asking. Why don't you say it's not being investigated, let's say my graphites are being explored? Why? Or, for example, I don't know, it's what you do with the 2015 Sisters' Assembly. It's what you do. It's what matters to you. But I'm saying I don't have a problem with that, all you have to get to the table of ladies and gentlemen of the DORH, but give me where there's a serious crime where 23 million kunas were drawn to get that money back, let's ask Concar where you get that money, let's ask the HDZs who pulled the money out of the black funds and signed that they were taken to be put in charge. But no, nobody touches them, they're a protected young man. Look, this is a shame, the DORH is looking for Cobankovic who has subscribed the building, in fact, damaged the state for a million fines for the common good, work for the common good. Oh, yeah. And I'm looking for two months in prison for me. Is that normal for you? So why don't they say, here's Pernar's writing graphite, let's do some charity work. How, why, why do I have to get why I'm being asked for a prison sentence, and why for a gentleman and watch out for the damage the DORH has assessed in my case, 2,000 kuna, hey 2,000 kuna, jail sentence. This one raises 14 million... goes gulty potatoes. So who's crazy here? What's the point of punishing then? Hypothetically, to send me to prison for graffiti, I mean, what message was sent to society? What if you didn't have to write graphs that were politically directed against, say, the authorities, that's a message. It's all one joke, it's all one farce and it's all one system that basically works in a way that similar to those in high positions protects. I have filed criminal charges against Sylvo Grncaric, who led the topic in Zadar, who lied in Zadar for the assignment of APN's apartments, the list of championships. How did this APN guy get that apartment? I don't know that anything has been done in terms of legal action except that the application was sent, also against Tatjana Kujundzic, that she sold herself real estate for less value than she was really worth from that firm. What was done about it? What was done about the alleged suicide of Palmov in Virovitica? Why wasn't the autopsy done? How is it possible that for years the million amounts from the city budget disappeared without anyone noticing it? These are all questions that the DORH doesn't give answers to. In the case of Palm, you put everything on a dead man in the Sanader case, everything on Sanader, and like everyone around Sanader, they're fair and square. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185320	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next debate, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185321	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. During my debate, I talked on behalf of the club about certain cases. I do not agree with my colleague, Boris, who here criticises parliamentary representatives who used the debate to warn certain things, so that's what the citizens expect of us. The second question is how much moral integrity does anyone have to warn about certain things? There they can agree that my colleague Bernardic and the SDP team have no moral integrity, since they are creators and Milan Bandic, since what they are now predicating to HDZ around the chips in the Saucha Parliament and the rest are their chips, these are Milanovic's chips, and just now Zoran Milanovic patented the tokens. We remember all the night meetings in Mr. Kotromanović's apartment where, past MOST's guideline, Zoran Milanović met with Drago Prgomet, whom we can freely call Milanović's token, the same as Saucha Plenkovićev zetončić, and the product is Zoran Milanović and SDP, so Drago Prgomet is actually Milanović zetončić, and now is one of the key Plenkovic's people. So if we're going to say things and show things the way they are, we need to tell the truth. I have now answered the individual debate because one lady sends me that all politicians have disappointed her that no one wants to warn her in the Croatian Parliament on the Joseph Galinca case. Here I am telling this lady that here is that I have met the Croatian public, as well as the state's chief attorney for Mr. Josip Galinc, who she claims to have devastated one of the important Croatian companies, is about Industrograding. I don't know if there's any criminal charges against a gentleman, did the DORH react anything, but here I am, as a politician of my own, and as a national representative of my own, and the institutions shall do theirs. My task is not to write criminal charges, if the attorney general has any criminal charges against that gentleman, if he has any grounds for any action, I call on the institutions to act accordingly, of course in accordance with the law, and not to treat this man in any way if there are no grounds in those charges. My wife sent me one already 30 messages. I just want to conclude in the end the chief state attorney, I'm not saying and it was brought out by colleagues here and through discussions that the DORH doesn't do any good things, that as my colleague Bernardic said in the DORH, all the people are lazy and that no one there is doing anything, they can't agree with it at all. I am convinced that in many situations you have done your job well, and I am aware of some criminal charges I have filed where the DORH has done its job well, have filed charges and the indictments have been confirmed by the court, however, the proceedings are too long. What unfortunately casts doubt on your independence, these are the cases I've been talking about. I urge you to review these cases once again, the decisions that have been made that are truly correct, or maybe someone has made an accidental mistake, or it is an impression, you have said that this is unfortunately an unfortunate coincidence, that on the day of my question, there has been a rejection of the criminal application that this is to the end of the question, I, by all means of what I have and the documents that I have, show that there are very many axes to deal with. The same thing I would like to warn you in the State's Attorney's Office, so my colleague Bulj was talking about one case, so Emil Tedeschi and this money for a weapon or money that was intended for one purpose then it was too intended for a weapon, that money was gone and there was a criminal application and there was a trial going on as far as I could see from what my colleague Bulj now has and this trial was ended by a judicial acquittal. What is now being asked as a question is it possible on the basis of new crimes, which is war profit, something done in this particular case, and is the law passed by the Croatian Parliament applicable at all? Whether the interpretation of the Constitutional Court or whether the law is actually against the constitution and that the intensity that has been since then the President of the State and of the ruling majority when it passed that law, in fact, was only one spin and that from the punishment of converted crime and privatisation in Croatia, there would actually be nothing. If it is a message, I think it would be good if you, as the chief state attorney in this highest legislative body, sent such a message and then here in the Assembly or among the people as some constitutional initiative, were to change the Constitution if there was any real will to deal with converted crime, privatisation and war profit. I don't know how clear I was, but I think you've got my point, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185322	Thank you, comrade Grumo. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected attorney general, Mr. Drazen Jelenić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185323	So this is my first assembly debate in which I participate as it says here, the motioner, or one who has presented two annual reports on the work of the State's Attorney General or the Attorney General. And I don't know if these discussions have been longer, shorter, etc., but in any case, what I want to say first of all is that, based on this debate and all that I've heard today, I've been here noting a few things, not so much about specific items, but a few things that I'm definitely talking about as a state's attorney and my colleagues, they should, in their future work, be more accounted for or more to say so, are one of those things, of course, those sanctions of which the respected representative spoke. Of course we're making complaints right now, but that doesn't mean we can't do it anymore. What's been a lot of words from both this and that point of view are rejections. I don't want to defend their numbers from this place or defend them in any way whether or not they should have brought a discard. The rejection of criminal charges is the decision of a state attorney in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, behind it is any state attorney or deputy who makes such a decision. Professionally, conscientiously and legally based. For a large number of these rejections, the applicants or victims, have the right under the law to take on criminal prosecution before the court in charge, and so our rejections can pass judicial control. Since this is not a report on the work of the judicial authority, I do not really know the percentages, the exact percentages, but I assure you that the irrevocable number of solutions to the rejection or takeover of criminal prosecutions where the courts have, by controlling our work in that segment, allowed further prosecution. On the other hand, when we talk about BUSKOK, then since there is no victim in the criminal offences of taking and giving bribes, but the victim of society as a whole, the legislator predicted an internal control system. All rejections under appeal pass this within the control system, meaning the deputy director who made the decision, the second deputy director who prepares the decision for the USKOK College, 30 and some USKOK deputy members who discuss it and finally, the right to object to the USKOK decision of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I mean, now we can either trust the state's attorney's work or we don't have to believe it. I don't see any reason not to believe the work. Questions about whether we're dealing with this or that. We are dealing with what is a relevant degree of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. The state's attorney's office doesn't take away any crimes. The State's Attorney's Office does not exercise supervision and is not a body of general supervision. It's the facts. And certainly no criminal record for which data and the fact that there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed will be dismissed. That's how it is in the State's Attorney's Office. If you know anything else, object to the work, and it is an internal control system, and the complaint will be considered. So no rejection is certainly the result of corruption in the DORH, the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I'll repeat the story again, but I have to do it because you repeated it on the board for, no, it's not the Justice Committee, it's the Council, the Anti-Corruption Council. You really think because you were talking to me at the time and today, that I am either super psychic and also super stupid when I am, and you should know that on that day in the Croatian Parliament, you will ask the prime minister a question about this matter and that, not us but the competent state attorney's office will make that decision on that very day. As I told you then, I'm telling you now, I had nothing to do with the decision, I had nothing to do with the timing, and the decision is legal. As far as I know, it's been checked by the Director of Uskok, I think that, not to mention that decision now, although the public has already been informed several times already. We must be fair and fair to the executive, first of all I am talking about the Ministry of Justice because today we discussed two reports, from 2017 and 2018. When we talk about the material conditions of the State's Attorney's Office, these conditions have changed a year, a year and a half. The representative here talked about how she was in the new rooms of USKOK, we can talk about whether these rooms are suitable or not, but all those who were in the former rooms of USKOK, know that these working conditions as they currently have conditions of work are worthy of such an institution because before that were for any criticism. I'm talking about information equipment, some things haven't changed completely, but that's also what this is about, but we'll probably or we'll talk about it and you'll discuss it when the reports for 2019 and 2020 are, too. War crimes and the eternal issue of war crimes and what I was saying at the outset, I am absolutely standing there. All these years in the reports, they can't be seen especially when we're talking war crimes cases, like a year to themselves. They all have a 30-year-old continuity. Personally from the position I have and with the powers I have, I take measures that I believe will contribute to making the work on these cases more effective and better, but let's say only examples work, in the State's Attorney's Office, one of the 4 war crimes deals, the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, instead of 35 deputies in the criminal department, there are 18 of them and they need to do everything, and war crimes and economic crime, etc. But we are in the making of new framework standards, and we are in the process of tendering for the appointment of deputy county attorneys especially in this state's attorney's office, so I hope and believe that in the coming period at least one part of these human capacity problems will be resolved and that work will be able to be organised exactly as I would like it to be organised. There were a number of questions about specific cases, I said that I would not talk about it, of course all of you who asked such questions and related to the cases on which they filed criminal charges is true, we are at this point witnessing that politicians, that parliamentary deputies file criminal charges to the State's Attorney's office. Everyone has the right to file criminal charges and that right cannot be challenged by anyone. The second thing is whether filing a criminal application represents and which is false to say so is a criminal offence, of course, but on the other hand, any rejection of a criminal application does not mean that the criminal application was false but simply means that the findings carried out and any criminal application in the State's Attorney's Office is checked, received in the State's Attorney's Office, whether now or now, we or the police, depending on the type of criminal offence, each such criminal application is obtained by an epilogue. For what you suggest someone is costing and borne by the state, that's exactly what the law should change. The same goes for the prosecution of judges because the State's Attorney's Office is not satisfied with the decisions they make. If the State's Attorney's Office is not satisfied with the court's decision, the State's Attorney's Office shall reach out to the legal medicines at the end, the State's Attorney's Office shall not always be right. The State's Attorney's Office is one of the two parties in the process. He has his position, he has his arguments, and he represents those arguments before the court. The court takes a decision and decides that. The initiation of proceedings against judges who don't judge how the State's Attorney's office wants it, I think it would lead us in a direction that we certainly don't want any of us to go, and besides when we're talking about going back to those about 1,000 rejections of criminal charges that come to USKOK, they're pretty much on that trail. I'm not satisfied with any court decision by any other state body, I was one of the parties, always one party dissatisfied, then I file criminal charges for corruption where it's impossible for a judge to make such an argument in favour of the other party. The Republic of Croatia does indeed appear and arises as an interface in some work disputes, you have talked about disputes of health professionals simply because of this, although the Republic of Croatia has not been sued, but the financial burden of such disputes in the event that the workers of the age of disputes will definitely be struck by the Republic of Croatia and therefore the Republic of Croatia is interested in the course of the case and therefore, according to the Law on the Paritial Procedure, appears as an interface on the part of the defendant, here. The problem with pre-departures and bankruptcys, as far as I know, was solved by the practice of the High Court of Commerce, although the State Attorney's Office was in that direction, and it also proposed amendments to the law to the competent ministry in order not to be avoided and we have seen it in practice and we have written about it in the annual report in order to avoid the abuse of the law. Not abuses in the sense of crime but simply there is a legal void and this legal void is used to achieve certain goals that are not our objectives for which the law has been passed. Again, we had a question of forgiveness, forgiveness applies exclusively, so it doesn't apply to war crimes. And the State's Attorney's Office has been watching and considering these cases before and now with special care to determine whether it is, most often, the competition of armed rebellion and war crimes and wherever we have concluded that it can go to criminal proceedings for war crimes, we have done so. But if it's an armed rebellion, it's as much as I personally or someone else's regret or pleasure, covered by the Law of Forgiveness. It is impossible, therefore, to repeat the proceedings in the case of acquittal judgments because it is prohibited by the Constitution and by law. I don't know, I probably haven't been able to answer all the questions, I'm calling all of you if you feel or think I haven't answered some questions, to use your right to ask parliamentary questions, and as we've always done so far, we'll do future questions. What I must say in the end, I re-evaluate that this remains recorded that the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2017 and 2018 was both high-quality and up-to-date, cannot and should not be measured against certain individual cases with which some are not satisfied. And I still have to look back at the words spoken from this stage, excuse me from this pay phone that was sent, maybe you heard them wrong, or I may have heard them wrong, and not that the State's Attorney's office is doing anything but that the attorney general or the attorney general is doing nothing. In order for this to be concluded, we should know at all what the Attorney General is doing and what the State's Attorney's Office is doing. Calling on the European Commission report and without reading the report, is wrong. It is not necessary to manage what the media are writing in the report because there is no point in criticising the Republic of Croatia regarding the prosecution of corruption. It has to do with the activities and activities that are being undertaken at the level of preventing corruption but I am not going in now because by preventing corruption, the State's Attorney's Office is not engaged. And that's why you've been seduced or brought up by newspaper inscriptions, very easy to get onto an institution with mud or an individual. I guess that's why we don't do anything because we don't or don't do what someone thinks I should do. That is, if we reject the application, it should be accused or vice versa. And I claim that state attorneys and deputy state attorneys are doing their job professionally and knowingly. That doesn't mean we're not wrong. This does not mean that we are not wrong, but in any case, when errors are warned at all, they are reacted to and made decisions and warnings for working in the future based on these mistakes. Finally, I thank you once again for the constructive debate, as I said, surely a large part of what I have said will be considered and implemented in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185324	I would like to thank Mr. Jelenic's respected Attorney General for his final statement. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185325	Dear State Attorney, the person who was killed in Split recently in the Zavadlav case was only two months before she was killed, arrested with 274 g of heroin. Instead of going into custody, the state's attorney isn't looking for detention, it's about the amount of drugs that are relatively large, dangerous and worth about 150 000 kuna. So how many drugs does it take to have a man and a heroine in your possession to claim custody for him? That's the first question. The second question, so in Split for dealers, work is required for the common good. I explain the case of Cobankovic, 14 million kuna work for the general good, I do for the graphite in prison. You tell me, is that normal for you? Well, here's the truth. I'm interested in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185326	Thank you. Answer, state's attorney, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185327	Whether it's normal for me or not, it's not the right question here. The real question is... Wait a minute, the right person is to ask but it's not the right question, that's what I'm talking about. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Each event shall be assessed under the circumstances in which it is collected, on the basis of the evidence collected, shall be decided. Very likely to ask someone else, they're different sightings, I'm just saying, State's attorneys or deputies of the state's attorney, doing their job consciously and doing it professionally, and if they have arguments and in these cases you're talking about, they have arguments, they make reasoned decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185328	I thank you for your response to Mr. Jelenic. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185329	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Attorney, these days, the cooperatives have delivered biomass to the broker who bought this biomass from them and gives it to the other owner, the legal person who owns the plant. Why would I bring that up? Well, that will certainly be as you say in the report, it will certainly end up as a criminal application later because the legal persons according to your interpretation have no other way of coming to their claims and turning them into criminal charges in order to intimidate the debtor into giving them that money. And you here say in the report that actually regular work is buried then by such reports that are generally rejected because they need to be done in other procedures, or by executive or litigation procedures. What you can actually do is propose to the legislator, i.e. To us here, if these amendments to the law were to change so that we wouldn't be covered by this kind of application? Because I'm saying, other people, legal people don't have the solutions to come up with their claims, that's what you said in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185330	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Answer, Your Honor's Attorney General, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185331	I don't know if legal persons have or don't have, but the fact is that this way they're trying to get us through the State's Attorney's Office or through the work of the State's Attorney's Office because, look, if a state attorney takes a criminal case, then in that criminal proceedings, legal persons can make their property legal claims without paying charges in a lawsuit, without having lawyers, etc. Maybe they are, probably in one piece are motives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185332	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185333	Thank you very much. State Attorney, 2017, 2018, these reports you have made, of course, raise the perception issue, what citizens feel is that the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia is one of the key problems of development of the Republic of Croatia. And of course I can't calm down and the people of the Cetina region, here I've been asking you a million questions, no matter what the answers, until I see a 90-year-old gun payment, when Emil Tedeschi shows it, I will personally apologize. So we're talking about the things that happened and this perception that's being created, here's an example, if a drug dealer is being released or if some politician who took tens of millions of kunas is peeling nine days of potatoes, it's not good perception. You can do what you can, I am supporting you to fight for the protection of Croatian national interests, if we see that war criminals and rapists, Chetniks who killed Schreter, who know everything, sits in parliamentary benches, then we are not talking about perception here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185334	Thank you, Comrade Bull. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr. Drazen Jelenic, once again, for reporting on the work of the State's Attorney General. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185335	Report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for the Republic of Croatia for 2017 The applicant is DORH, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the DORH for 2017 is accepted." I find that most of the votes are 92 for, 1 abstention and 14 against the conclusion proposed by the parent parliamentary committee, and on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on War Veterans, which proposed that the report in question be taken into consideration, it is impertinent to vote because we have just reached a conclusion on which the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185535	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Žarko Tušek, to submit the report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185536	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, my colleagues and my colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 55th session held on 5 February 2020 the written commitment of MP Romana Jerkovic addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 16 January 2020 that from 1. 3. In 2020, she took office as a representative in the European Parliament and was suspended as a result of her incompatibility of duty. Social Democratic Party of Croatia, SDP based article. Paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, Mirela Ahmetovic, as deputy candidate for the VIII candidate, said. election units. In all of these, the Mandate-Immunity Commission found that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Romani Jerkovic, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, and reached a unanimous decision on the termination of the representative's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputy, on 1 February 2020, the parliamentary term of office of MP Romani Jerkovic ceased. Based on an article. Paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy deputy representative Mirela Ahmetovic, will begin to act on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute. The Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 55th session held on 6 February 2020 the written request of the representatives of the Prof. dr. sc. Milan Kujundzic on re-behaving as president of the Croatian Parliament on 13 January 2020. How's Professor Dr. Sc. Milan Kujundzic according to article. Article 13(1) The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has filed a written request for the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline. The Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and that the term of office of Prof. dr. sc. Milan Kujundzic stops on the eighth day of the application day. On the same day, the conduct of the representative's duties shall cease to be necessary for Mrs. Crescent. Dear Vranesh. Following the above, the Mandate-Immunity Commission made a unanimous decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the capacity of deputy deputies. On 7 February 2020, the term of office of the representative of Prof. dr. sc. Milan Kujundzic. On 7 February 2020, Dragica Vranjš stopped acting as deputy deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185537	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, is not present. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point tomorrow at 12 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue work tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning with the item on the 2016 HRT business report. The vote on the MIP report, as I said, will be held at 12 o'clock with the addition of the agenda. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SECURE Interrupted at 18.02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185538	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] I'd like to ask you first to check if we have a quorum. Can you please just this one? We have quorum, quorum I am, quorum we have. Therefore, this is how I would now ask this person to conclude the debate, based on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and I will put to the vote of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the term of office of Prof. Dr. Milan Kujundzic and the cease to act as deputy deputy representative of Mr. Dear Vranesh. Here's your colleague, Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185539	Dear Chairman, on behalf of the Living Wall Club and Change Croatia, we are looking for a 10 minute break to discuss whether we will vote for Mr Kujundzic within the club, given that Mr Kujundzic has already sworn an oath he has broken and it is difficult to do so. Which prevents him from breaking his oath now as a parliamentary representative. Please pause for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185540	So this is how I have to correct you in fact, I will give you, my colleague Kujundzic has sworn an oath so he will not take the oath, only this colleague Ahmetovic will take the oath, but of course you are looking for a break, I must give you a break from the Rules of Procedure. So I'll see you in 12 and 14 minutes. MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the break, and I ask you to take our seats and I would like to vote on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of representative Milan Kujundzic and to suspend the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Dragica Vranjš, please participate, let's vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.12 HOURS]] I find that most of the votes are 84, 81 for, 3 abstentions and no one against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the termination of MP Romana Jerkovic's term of office and the launch of the conduct of deputy deputy representative Mirela Ahmetovic, please join. I find that unanimously with 95 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, has made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we're moving on to giving an oath to a representative, to the art. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall, by name, appoint the representatives, or in this case the representative, the appointed representative shall rise up and pronounce the word ‘I swear’. I will read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185542	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185543	Thank you very much, congratulating the MPs on their sworn oath... I would like to remind you once again that MP Milan Kujundzic has sworn at the constitutional session on 14 October 2016, and once again I am taking the opportunity to wish MPs Kujundzic and MPs Ahmetovic the success in performing this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. [[Applause]] We now move to the final point, which is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Lovra Kuštević of the Croatian Parliament Please ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Zarko Tušek to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185545	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the 56th session held on 20 February 2020, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 17 February 2020 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia of 17th, the Act not to read the number of the 17th of February 2020 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Lovra Kustević of MPs in the Croatian Parliament on suspicion of having committed 4 crimes and that, in turn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Penalty of abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) Penalty law. A criminal offence inciting the abuse of trust in economic business referred to in Article 246(2). For the purposes of Article 37(1) of the same law, and for the purpose of encouraging bankruptcy, as referred to in Article 249(1), point (b) of Article 249(4) shall apply. In accordance with Article 37(1) of the same law, the law of criminal law in respect of Article 37(1) of the same law shall apply. Lovro Kuščević is a representative of the 9th convocation of HS and based on art. 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the HS shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. No discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. The HS Rules of Procedure unanimously proposes to HS the next decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Lovra Kuščević, a representative in HS at the request of the DORH, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, no longer read it whole, as of 17 February 2020, sent through the DORH of 17 February 2020 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed 4 crimes, the criminal offence of taking bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty of law, criminal offence of abuse of office and powers of art. 1st and 2st centuries 291. Criminal law, criminal offence, inciting the abuse of trust in the economic business of art. 246th century 2. Penal Code in relation to Art. The 37th century of the same law and the incentive to cause bankruptcy in art. 249th century. 1st Point. 4. Penal Code, in relation to Art. The 37th century of the same law. The mandate of the Immunity Commission in its work shall continue to hold its busy principle position in cases where a request for the initiation and conduct of a criminal proceedings is submitted by the DORH, or by the court, authorisation shall be granted in order to ensure that they are able to carry out their duties in an uninterrupted and independent manner, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in their jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185546	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. As there are no reports, I conclude the debate, and we will vote on that when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Official Statistics, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 838. Good afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185547	Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Lovra Kuščević of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision, which is approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Lovra Kuščević, a representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State's Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 86 for and 2 against decisions taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we're going to go to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, thank you Deputy Prime Minister, and I wish you all good luck and a successful job. The Mandate-Immunity Commission's report please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to submit a report. Yeah, yeah right here, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185549	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. At the 57th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 4 March 2020, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written notice of Representative Orsat Milenić of 24 February 2020, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that, on 21 February 2020, he had appointed the President of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to be incompatible...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185550	Comrade Pernar, I beg you, colleague Pernar, I beg you to behave yourself. Here you go, Comrade Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185551	So, on the 57th session held on 4 March 2020, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written notice by Representative Orsat Milenić of 24 February 2020 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that, on 21 February 2020, he was appointed to the office of the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the behaviour of the representative and rests his mandate on the basis of Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 21 February 2020. The commission found that the conditions for the start of Orsat Milenic's term of office and the conditions for the start of his deputy deputy, Karolina Leakovic, were laid down by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of MPs' mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On February 21st, 2020, the meeting of MP Orsat Milenic begins. The term of office of the deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2) shall be replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Karolina Leakovic on the day when the assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185552	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I'm opening a debate, I'm closing a debate. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to open the term of office of MP Orsat Milenić and to start acting as deputy deputy representative Karolina Leakovic. Please, let's vote. Okay, you can do this 75 for, now let's go who's up and down? 14, 10, 11. 14, 10, 11, 9, so 24 and 11 is 35 and 9 is just a little bit, 45 and 9, 54, 55 and 75, 130, so unanimously with 130 votes for the decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we're going to move on to swearing an attorney. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative rises, saying the word “I swear. ” Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and respect for the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185553	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-12-0.u185554	Thank you, congratulations, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. [[Applause.]]
