ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187706	Thank you, President HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult on the Law on maternity and parental support. In this way, I would like to explain this, which is that the demographic strategy of the Republic of Croatia still as a national and one whole document that should define long-term family policy, housing policy and other measures that should benefit young people and families has not yet been adopted. In fact, family policy is extremely important to us, and these partial measures concerning subsidized housing loans to young families, those who are in subsistence and those who do not have contracts indefinitely are already seasonal or have contracts for certain working hours, still cannot reach their own home and their own real estate. The prices of the apartments went to heaven, as well as to family homes, and all of this was granted by these very subsidies to those who only had permanent jobs, constant incomes, and thus only a few suitable ones were helped. I would also like to warn that children's allowances should be removed from the domain of social transfer from 199,00 kn, simply that is insufficient, the cost of life and energy, subunits and everything else have jumped, should be worked on children's rights, today our children's rights and mothers' rights depend on the municipality in which the child was born, so that on fees, relatively appropriate gifts for the birth of a child, this amount can be several hundred thousand kunas to a few thousand kunas in some poor Slavonian municipality. I would also like to warn about the inaccessibility of preschool education, all of which is actually an unfavourable demographic picture, and it also says in favour of the growing number of young people leaving the Republic, and less and less every year the children are enrolled in the first grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187707	The apartment will be approved, of course. A colleague named Josic from HDZ also reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187708	I thank the chairman. Well, here we are looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to present those important things concerning this final bill of birth and parental compensation. Let us not forget that this government is very much investing in motherhood, investing in a good and equal relationship between parents of father and mother, which we believe has also been achieved through an increase in maternity and parental benefits. Let's just remember that this is the first government that is almost 10 years later. increase maternity and parental support fees. Let's not forget that in 2017. We increased from a miserable 2,600,00 kn parental leave fee to 3.990,00 kn, which would increase again to 5.600,00 kn. So there we can really say that we have almost tripled certain donations for our parents. With this bill, we also believe that we will allow for better equality between father and mother, let us not forget that the users of these fees were exclusively mothers, let us not forget that our fathers were indeed in, I will not tell the subordinated relationship, but they have become much less active in the use of maternity and parental benefits as well as in the report of the Advocate for Gender Equality. So these are just some of the measures and wheels that tell us about how we take care of our parents, we take care of children's rights and we make sure that we provide adequate care for every child born in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187709	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Voter, you answered the same, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187710	Thank you, Mr. President, please also grant us a 10 minute break to consult further on this law. Every step, even the smallest one that this law proposes, in cash fees during the use of parental leave is something we welcome. However, for a party whose main part of the pre-election programme was demographic policy, which is HDZ, this is too little or nothing. There is money in the budget, however, that HDZ and the ruling coalition do not think more seriously about family policy, said the former secretary of state at the Ministry of Demography, Social Policy, Family and Youth, Mr. Strmota, when he resigned from the entire Croatian public saying that all this government is doing in terms of demographic and family policy is this, a show for the public without real plan and with no real intention for demographic or family policy to be the driver of demographic renewal and economic development of society. So, as far as this government is concerned, and what this government is planning, how seriously it has drawn itself as a priority, it's all said by your close recent co-worker. We will support this bill, but we must actually consult on the fact that it is somewhat inappropriate that none, but not a single proposal of parliamentary representatives and MPs, regardless of which side we came from, which we referred during the first reading, has been adopted. Come on, I understand that maybe the SPD's proposals weren't adopted, but there were really colleagues here who had concrete normal proposals that weren't so much even financially burdening the budget, but it was all so smoothly rejected. Nothing's accepted, we're going our way, which is how we're going to get out. Sad, sad, could be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187711	I approve of Stanku. If we don't get back to work at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes. It's 10:00.34. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.52 HOURS]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187713	The proposal for a Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support in its final text provides for an increase, as was the case in the first reading, of a category of employees and self-employed parents from the amount of parental compensation 120 to 170% of the budget base, specifically from 3.991 to 5.654 kuna, which will mean that this category which is being changed for the second time since July 2017, when, after 10 years, it first approached a significant improvement in the status of all categories and status of maternity and parental support, and in particular the most significant category, they are employed and self-employed in, in order to bring the amount of salary closer to the level of full salary achieved previously. The birth benefit amount for the first 6 months is 100%. These changes will allow for the category and current user system for 60% of users at 100% salary level and will allow for further flexibility in the application of this right between mothers and fathers, or greater transfer of rights to fathers in this flexible form of work and thus further improve the position of women on the labour market and their higher and better career position, in a career sense. Furthermore, the second sentence, which is also significant and relates to the first-time job category or staff with interruptions, is reduced to the previous condition of the compulsory and retirement insurance standing, in such a way that, from 12 months, the condition of the insurance internship is continuously reduced to 9 months or with interruptions to 12 months in the last 2 years. This is particularly important for those who are hired for the first time, for young families who will thus benefit from the conditions of employment and self-employed parents and through these changes also for the other 6 months easier to balance private family life. In Article 29(2), one, one paragraph relating to the working-legal status of the user is amended and applies therefore to those outsiders, unemployed outside the labour system, other income users or farmers who are not, are not in the status of the taxpayer of income tax or profit tax, so that this transfer of rights from mother to father can be transferred in accordance with his working-law status as opposed to the current solution which was highlighted which had to be in the same working-law status. Which means that a mother who, for example, is unemployed and transfers that right to her husband, can use that right from work relations if he is employed, so far it was not possible but had to be in the same working-law relationship. This is another further improvement in women’s employability and better distribution between caring for a newborn child between a father and a mother. In Article 47(2), the second paragraph is replaced by the part relating to the change in the conditions of flexibility of use of maternity and parental support where an employee reports to its employer the flexibility of use, for example. in more, for more time periods over one year or more. So it is no longer necessary to obtain the consent of the employer but only the received notice by the employer, which is appropriate because it is legally regulated that the user of the parenting is entitled to flexible use and change of status, but in a way that the employer does not give its consent but practically according to the information received. And what is also important in the final provisions to note that all rights, which are in application of the provisions of these amendments to the laws for employed and self-employed parents, will apply from the moment of entry into force of the law, which is 1.4 this year. The assessment of the fiscal impact of this law at the level of this year amounts to HRK 160,950,000, i.e. HZZO items, for the category of reduced insurance standings for this year, is envisaged to assess the fiscal impact at the level of 45 million kuna. We believe that these amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support, which have a certainly significant and demographic effect, but above all to increase women's participation in the labour market and a more balanced distribution between father-mother concerns about the newborn child, will also represent a significant step in improving their status and, as such, produce significant positive demographic effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187714	Let's go with the replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187715	Thank you very much. Secretary, the promise was to be a national demographic strategy for the Republic of Croatia. At the end of the term, you gave this one measure and it was half a measure, at least that you accepted what MOST suggested, as Col. Cikotic said in her apartment you did not accept a much better solution which, is this exclusively and only folklore as former secretary in this government Mr. Strmota said. Of the 100 measures you announced, demographic measures, demographic revitalisation of our neighborhoods, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, you have now given this at the end of the mandate and not half of it, but you have given one measure before the elections now to send some kind of message. So why didn't you single out that 0.27% and define this measure as a whole so that both mothers can have full rights, both fathers and grandparents and move forward together? However, you have not done this one measure with 100 measures properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187716	Thank you, Comrade Bull. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187717	Dear Representative Bulj, therefore we do not think that this is folklore, the amount for parental parental support over the past 3 years will be increased by 750 million kuna, so we really consider it to be a significant step and the rights used by parents in the system of maternity and parental support, they consume it in this way and we believe that in this sense they have greatly improved their position in the status of parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187718	Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187719	Dear Secretary of State, I wish she was here today as a minister to defend the law regarding demographic support. What would you like to ask, when we expect a national strategy for demographic revitalisation of the Republic of Croatia and what exactly do you think and when you take on contracts for certain women who work both 10 and 15 years and work seasonally, work on certain and then during their parental leave, those other 6 months, their contract is terminated, and that woman has never worked, committed, paid into the state budget, but she falls on that minimum fee of 2328 kn? You're full of women's mouths, their equality, and now you're in the executive position, you have the opportunity, the scissors and the skirt are with you, so do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187720	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187721	Dear MPs Cikotic, and these amendments to the law, which provides for the reduction of the conditions of the insurance hold with interruptions within 2 years to only one year, will certainly include one part of the users who will be able to use labour rights because if seasonal jobs are under way within 2 years, they will surely contribute to the fact that they consume these rights and the status of employed and self-employed, and this is a significant step.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187722	Mr. Chury, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187723	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like you to consider the proposal I made in my first reading and to allow the use of parental leave for another 6 months. be independent of using the first 6 months, to be a 100% fee and to allow up to 4 hours a day and up to 4 hours of working hours. That would allow, above all, one financial aspect of the story not to lose financially someone with 10,000 salaries, another 6 months. does not go on more than twice as much as if it could work from home or up to 4 hours, fix yourself financially or that it did not drag him away from parenting itself and that professional part, that he did not fall behind primarily young mother or mother in professional development and progress in his business units, here I would ask you to think about it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187724	Thank you. Okay, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would not agree that these are cosmetic measures, so here I would particularly stress, therefore, on the parents for children with developmental difficulties, and I think that first of all we should ask parents who will use these maternity and parental support, whether it is about moving on better in terms of creating social security and strengthening the material standard and quality of life of the family. So I'm just curious, although it's not covered by these changes, how long does this art-making process last for those who want to use maternity and parental benefits after 8 years of life mean bodies of art, can this process be accelerated and what is extremely important, so that half of the working time can be used, so parents can stay in the world of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187726	Thank you, too. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187727	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this measure and the law is something that needs to be welcomed especially, which will increase parental fees from €3991 to €5654, 170% of the budget base. So that's okay, but many young parents, no matter how much they increase, are not happy because the child supplies are much more expensive than outside. Are you informed about this and can you control the price of children's supplies from your side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187728	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187729	Thank you. Dear Representative, therefore, we cannot control prices on the market but the Government has, by changing the VAT rate to children's diapers, car seats and children's food since 1.1.2018, joined once a downturn to say the price and they are certainly in this context as such believe and lower. So that's one of those measures that's possible. In the work that facilitates and additional benefits to parents with small children, we have also allowed employers to pay untaxably in kindergarten since 1.9 last year and a very large number of employers and parents who use it have pointed out. The amount of non-taxable birth benefits increased from 2500 to 10 000, the personal deduction increased from 2600 to 4000, progressive for each child to the level that the amount of family having four children, practically 98% of parents do not pay taxes at all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187730	Time, thank you. Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's Mrs. First. Sonja Cikotic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187731	Thank you, Vice President HS, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, Well, here we have the Law of Amendments and the addition of the Law on maternity and parental support. In fact, this increase for the other 6 months as well as a reduction in the duration of compulsory insurance is certainly one step forward. However, given what is happening in the Republic of Croatia and what is the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia that is not enough, it is actually one small crumb, it is throwing dust into the eyes, which is that the end of the mandate has come, and the strategy of demographic revitalisation is not yet on public consultation. I wonder what they've been up to for 3.5 years. or more than that when one national document actually failed to reprimand and deliver to the public for criticism and praise? Given the proposed measures relating to maternity and parental support, I must point out that given the demographic disaster that the Republic of Croatia has been exposed to, we believe from the club MOST that this demographic measure of parental support must not be less than 3.991,00 kn for all mothers during the first year of the child's life. So instead of increasing those who work seasonally, who are working on contracts on a specific, which will simply make it harder for the family to prepare, they have again focused on these others who will and this is a good step, but does not correspond to the fact that the Croatian citizens are currently in. In fact, with the absence of a national and demographic strategy, we still do not have a defined family policy. The support system itself in all units of local self-government as regards preschool care is left to each local leader, as well as the amount of suitable rewards at the birth of a child, so some rich municipalities will give more than 100,000,00 kn, and some poor by 1,000,00 kn, I believe that this is where the state needs to step up and with one national framework guarantee in fact how children and demographic policy will be supported. Many women, many mothers, many parents, have spoken to me since MOST released its proposal on maternity and parental support, mothers have addressed and criticised, for example, a system of health care in which children from smaller places have not secured everything that children have in larger places. There is also an insufficient number of professionals in schools who care about the rights of children. I would also like to look back at women on the labour market, so it's not 4 years, you've almost had a chance, you could have solved women's problem on a contract, so women work over 5, 10 years, they work seasonally, they work on contracts on certain ones, then those other 6 months don't get that salary they worked for, before going on maternity leave, it's just that there's a need to step up because what you're proposing simply in the last year of the term can't be understood any different than pre-election. So you had a chance at 3.5. on this plan, you've led to children's extras being at the level of social transfers, which is 199,00 kn, 249,00 kn and 299,00 kn, so that's just one amount that doesn't stand, doesn't hold the story that there's no money, so money has. If we have for the army, if we had to get certain planes, if we had to, if we wanted to protect our sky, that but then we should have for a child's allowance and show that one step if the Republic of Croatia is a social state, if the Republic of Croatia protects mothers, motherhood, children, then we can't have children's allowances at the level of social transfers. So we have to get out of this social category, the prices have gone up, the rent prices, the prices of the apartment square, she went up alone, the cost alone means both the energy and finally the modern way of life. Today, a young family must also have a car if it wants to work somewhere, if it works outside its place of residence, the employer requires it. That's why I'm talking, we need to get out of this social, social transfer and these child benefits, too. I'm taking the opportunity to say that. You announced in spring 2019. a demographic national strategy with 100 concrete measures. She's not in public consultation until today. As far as children's rights are concerned, family policy, how many children, what is the social care system, how many welfare centres have quality, educated, professional social workers? For what salary and how many cases are these same social workers burdened? How many of our kids when it comes to divorce litigation, how long are they waiting for, uh, to make a abstention decision? How much and what measures are being taken in that section of women's protection and on the labour market? A year and a half later, a number of women approached me and said after I was pregnant, I was welcomed by a work book. 30 days or 15 days after the employer returns after parental or maternity leave, it is prohibited to fire her. In which way we can influence some positive measures on the employer that actually that woman when she returns after parental leave and maternity leave in some way that he has some measure of active policy, so that he retains her, so she probably lost some contact with the labour market and probably needs some time. What you do about it, and all of this should be addressed by a quality national demographic strategy. The position of women in the labour market, the availability of preschool institutions at affordable prices, we today have that in small units of local self-government kindergartens cost about 800 kuna, and in the city of Zagreb it is 600 kuna. The Mosta Club in Split suggested that because there was insufficient capacity for urban kindergartens, parents who work for 4 thousand kuna and have all the criteria, but simply, the number of places was not enough and those parents had to take their children to private kindergartens and pay 1200 kuna. In what way can young ones live worthy of their work? This government should, and you as a resolute ministry, make a synergy of measures from having quality policies for the housing opportunities of our young people. You're subsidizing and boasting, 8 thousand people have settled their housing issue. And what did you do on the real estate market? The whole subsidy ate up the price of the real estate market. The rental prices went up because people are creditworthy. What I'm saying is that the Mosta Club had its proposal on maternity and parental support. We advocate to make a minimum of 391 kuna for every mother who, at birth of a child for the first year of a child's life, simply in electronic form, via the system of e-Citizens or, if there is no such possibility, by coming, and the same, means in the competent state body, will exercise the right to do so. We find it unnecessary to invest in counter-office officials, which you suggested and did when you announced an increased amount of children's allowance users. It is that you have hired, yet the law has not even been passed in this House, and you have hired new 20 HZZO officials who will print countless solutions on children's extra charge of 199 kuna, probably with dense feathers. So what we're interested in here is to create a new territorial structure, to make a digitalisation of procedures, to save them, because this proposal by Mostov, which provides 391 kuna for all mothers during the first year of a child's life, because the first year of a child's life is extremely important for the child, and those who have a higher salary than 391 kuna, to be full of pay, and thus also marriage partners will be able to stay in a easier way and fathers will assume that parental role and use of parental and maternity leave because only 200 fathers have benefited from that possibility. Also, given the alignment of private and family life, we have suggested that parental leave can be used by grandparents and that they receive a fee of 2328 kuna. Not from the whim but from the need, because in numerous units of local self-government, you do not have a kindergarten available. You don't have available manger groups. And many mothers, many women, just their mothers, grandparents, help raise and raise their grandchildren. In this way, we would not increase our rights but only expand the circle of those who can use those rights. Also, do not care enough about single parents. How many single-parent communities in Croatia? Some countries have an example that when minor pregnancy occurs, grandparents may benefit from maternity leave or parental leave. But this law doesn't predict it either. So a concrete lack of thinking, synergy thinking, that would ensure that young families stay and create their families here. Well, it's not possible that it's easier for young people to go to someone else's country, they don't know the laws, they don't even know the language and they don't know the home, they don't even know the community, they stay here, they have help and families, they're familiar with the regulations, but they're just running from injustice. So from the public administration's action plan, from the use of EU funds, we've done everything we can't. The way we use 10.7 billion euros says that prices in the construction sector have gone up 40%. And then it happens to us that we're going to have to cancel those purchases that are project costs, which were before, that happened during and the projects won't be realised. Because there's not enough workforce. They're leaving. So we have the largest investment cycle of 10.7 billion euros, but everything is going slow. For 15 months, we've been deciding whether a project is innovative or not. 15 months. Well, as it's connected, and then you're going to say, 15 months, it's been the first administrative phase. Innovation's probably already been discovered. These people remember what I wrote 15 months ago. So there is money, the Bridge has proposed this proposal to increase parental and maternity support. It is about 400 million kuna, representing 0.27% of the budget. Scissors and skirts are with you, you as a ministry have and resources, you have and employees, you have a majority in the Assembly, you could have wanted, if you would have been willing, to provide quality active measures that would have provided a favourable rental of apartments that could later ensure that this ransom price means later entering, this sub-population that they used up to 5 years, to buy them an apartment, that's a solution, not subsidising the property of 8,000 people and still those young people have to pay taxes on the first 3 percent property. So these young people, if they even raise a 100 000-euro loan, 3,000 euros must pay the tax. They give you immediately and you provide them with a subsidy and you make a mess on the real estate market that those who don't have, so I guess they never do, but that doesn't seem to be your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187732	Thank you, too. Now, in front of the Voice Representatives' Club, Mrs. GLAS will speak. Hope Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187733	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. On behalf of the GLAS Club, I will first express so that I would say, because I think about these laws and good proposals that go into the first reading of the public debate, but also in the first reading, and through amendments submitted by colleagues, that they are going towards improving laws, should be accepted and incorporated into laws because they are not, mainly not political issues where the left, right and center differs, or at least should not be, especially in a situation in which Croatia or its demographic image is, however, not done. As my colleague said before me, during the debate in the first reading, there was a whole series of proposals or suggestions, which should be applied or complemented in law in order for it to be more complete and for it to be highlighted and I see that it is less and less highlighted by the ministry and the government, which is that this law will in some way be a demographic milestone in terms of politics or the overall state of demographic image of Croatia, obviously it is understood that it is not so or that there will be no drastic shifts, although we as a party must immediately say, we support an increase in the financial resources that go towards the users of maternity benefits, or an increase in the financial resources for maternity leave. And we will, of course, support this law, but we actually consider this law to be a more technical measure, the provision of funds in the budget, as we know, for more than a year the government has been boasting of better financial indicators, the inflow of larger funds into the budget, and, of course, it can always be expected that certain benefits or certain financial support will be consistent with that, or be increased, and that is, of course, good. However, as none of the countries, unfortunately, which are our many example, means Western European countries and some other countries globally facing similar problems that we are facing, which is a poor demographic picture and a decline in the number of newborns, or a decline in the number of inhabitants, are not all of the standard, nor are they able to give and have far greater opportunities than Croatia, have failed in this way to improve, qualitatively improve the demographic image of themselves, and it is not expected that Croatia will do so in particular not only in financial measures, but not in a way that it boasts as a major reform or some major demographic shifts and policies that will reverse the existing situation. What we were suggesting in our first reading was that more content should be dealt with, so we talked about the directive being adopted, almost now there will be a year of the European Commission, which encourages equal parenting or encourages both parents to be involved in maternity leave. We haven't taken advantage of it, so it's almost a year, we haven't taken the opportunity to change this law, to include it, of course we'll have to include it, but it'll probably be a new story about a new reform, about the new major shifts in demographic policy, and we're not in this year, 2 years from now, as we promised that you promised that you would, give the demographic strategy of the Republic of Croatia into a public debate, to see all of these measures within the ministry's portfolio itself, but also interlocutive because we believe in GLAS that this is definitely a problem that is far wider than one resistor and where we need to include all existing capacities that we have in order for that demographic image to change and bring at least such results that will stop the number of inhabitants in the Republic if we don't increase it where we start to talk openly about migration and the opportunities that we have to happen. We recently have this government abolished labour imports quotas, so we need to have a meaningful policy on imports of labour force or on the inflow of new residents because most of the Western European countries that are our role models and whose standards we want to achieve are actually resting, a good part of their economy rests on imported labour, as we know in the labour force leaving the Republic of Croatia. So, the problem is complex and no one here wants to preach to the government. However, somehow it gets the impression that here's the last year, the election year wants to take a measure, reward or in some way, it sounds ugly, but in some way justify certain pre-election promises, let's remember those 1,000 EUR per child, of course completely, completely insignificant not to say stupid and even underestimating, an attempt of some kind of policy that both mothers and parents and the whole society are underestimating. So we'll give you EUR 1,000, if you try, one time, if you try to have a newborn child, something scary. It well gave up in the meantime, but obviously this is also what is happening in the last year of office or before, in the election year you can't take the impression that focusing in fact on financial resources in this law is not a pre-election, pre-election move of this government, and in reality, such a measure should be an integral part of the law only in a way to predict a certain proportion or to delude full adoption of mothers or parents during maternity leave and for childbearing compensation. This would be some measure that would be permanent where it should be perfectly normal to coordinate it depending on the child's income, the parent's income, and of course some minimum limit should be set in relation to the average income in the Republic of Croatia. All that would make sense then, namely, it would make sense to talk about some kind of demographic policy, demographic measures, because as long as we live in a situation today, I think that a colleague here mentioned earlier, who spoke from the Most, the issue of housing policy and what is happening right now, where also this government is trying to express itself that by subsidising the purchase of apartments, it has made it possible for young couples to come to the first real estate in the most favourable way possible. Unfortunately, that didn't happen because 2 years ago the same square that you're buying for EUR 2,000 today cost 1,000, I'm talking about the average now. So that difference has gone into the pockets of those who trade in real estate and those who lend loans to trading in these properties, and young couples will continue to buy, so at this point they buy apartments at the same prices that they bought at two years ago, means for 1,000 and more euros. Nothing has changed here, nor has the state done anything for these young couples, and as a GLAS, we think that this policy may be one of the key policies. And we would agree with all the discussions that go in the direction of housing policies, ensuring the first real estate for young people or for young parents in this case, it is important that they can get to, as soon as they enter the labour market and that they can get as favourable in financial terms as possible and that state can certainly do much. And those proposals that went in the direction that the property, that the state should build through APN rental apartments that would be favourable, in this lease favourable, and also could, tomorrow, at the decision of those who are the tenants, include that rent in the purchase of the apartment and, of course, sell that apartment on a more favourable basis and with a more favourable interest. This is one measure that would certainly encourage a lot of people, young people to stay in Croatia and prevent such a huge outflow of young people abroad. Because something like that, meaning your real estate, your own family establishment, it can be very difficult, a young person in some real-time or appropriate time can realise in any foreign EU country, it is very difficult for those in those countries who have been born and live and work for a long time, let alone someone who comes to do some unexcessively well-paid work, and most often it's about such jobs. So it's something that might be the first asset of this or some other government in demographic policy to say we're going to provide our young people with what they need initially, which is a roof over their heads under much more favourable conditions than anywhere else. Of course, we young people will not prevent if their possibility exists to be realized somewhere out there and that their knowledge, their knowledge, their ability to cash more quality and have a greater, better breakthrough of life than they have in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot prevent it, but surely we can, for sure, be able to alleviate such a large drain of residents from the Republic of Croatia. And the other thing that we think is extremely important, which is, we meet almost daily, is an increase in violence, general uncertainty, so when you add up with this hysteria around, about spreading the coronaryvirus, the arrival of migrants, it means one general uncertainty that is certainly not the climate in which people think about family planning. It's something that also the state has to take care of. For now, it seems somehow and it should be commended to hold certain controls, and even in that public speech, which is also important, and I think that we should continue to do so both with the virus and with the potential, potential migrant crisis that is at the door, should be kept under control because general uncertainty is certainly something that does not contribute, does not contribute to what we would like, and that is that the Republic has a better demographic picture and that it is a much more successful society than it is today. I came out of the subject a little bit, I apologize, not a little bit, the topic is broad because the government itself in the proposal said it was a demographic measure then demographics as such here topic number one, we expect as a voice that, yes, we expect that We get a strategy at the most recent time on the bench and talk about it as one of the most urgent problems we have in the country. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187734	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović will speak in front of the Living Wall's Club and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187735	Thank you. Dear citizens, we are discussing the draft Law on maternity benefits and I am not going to repeat what is said here several times, but I will try to show you on the economic side how rerouting funding from some other segments can strongly support the most intelligent policy, demographic policy in the Republic of Croatia. I will immediately say that we from the Party Change Croatia believe that partial solutions such as in this case an increase in maternity benefits cannot solve deep disturbances in demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia because we are recording a strong demographic decline. But we welcome every increase that goes, means to increase standards, especially for mothers, to improve their standard of living and to be safe, means more financially protected. But let's get straight to the specifics. According to HZZO data, the amended birth benefits Act of 1 April of this year will be estimated to cost the state 160 million kuna more than ever before, and in 2021 and 2022. 214 million kuna more. Now, how much birth benefits were in 2018 at all. e.g.? Because here if we want to talk, let's talk specifically and offer solutions because you citizens, you've listened to the story, and most of all, as you like to say, you've heard the hollow stories most. Well, here it is, in 2018. Total birth benefits of 950 million kuna in the Republic of Croatia were paid, I repeat 950 million kuna. So if we add now this increase that will take place from April 1st, it will increase by 160, and in 2021 and '22. 214 million, so let's round it up to 1.2 billion kuna, so with an increase, a billion and 200 million kuna, that's how much all birth benefits in the Republic of Croatia will be paid. Is a billion and 200 million kuna full or small? Well, that's a little bit of my people. Why? Well, I'll explain to you later what's a lot, which is a little bit, right? Let's see how much compensation is paid, a child's allowance, which is an extremely important instrument of demographic policy, innovative policy, and has been successfully implemented for decades, for example, by Germany, France, other countries, Western European countries, etc.? As far as it was concerned, I found no data for 2018, found that the total amount of allowances for children in 2017 was a billion and 400 million kuna. So let's say that in 2018 it was something bigger, a billion and a half. So if you've just remembered the birth benefits of a billion and 200, and for children's extras a billion and a half, that's 2 billion and 700 million kuna. So, we, therefore, financial experts talk to you like this, and if you and your fellow mothers and young families want help, we need to speak specifically. Like when you come to a doctor, he determines our diagnosis and then gives us therapy because you know well that the fine stories here are not living or you can't live. Well, now that we in the Party change Croatia as a solution to the problem? Can more money be rerouted than these 2 billion and 700 million kunas for maternity benefits and child benefits? Well, of course he can. From where? So I've been here as a bird with a branch for years and I'm going to repeat now, Croatia every year, this government, on interest on government debts, is paying 4 billion kuna unnecessaryly, for example for this year, for the last year it was mandatory to pay 9.5 billion kuna to banks and pension funds for interest and I've proven that it takes a maximum of 4.5 billion, so 4, about 4 billion kuna could be saved, it could be this year. Now, you've seen the other day, the finance minister boasts that this year alone will save 700 billion kunas to refinance this big bond. So why didn't you do it when I told you three years ago, man? Well, I'm glad it's now, but they didn't do it because they wanted to, but because that's what the market is like, so there was no proactive action. Now, please, it is clear to you, dear citizens, that from the savings of 4 billion, 2 billion and 700 million kuna, we pay without a problem, not only to pay mothers and children an extra, but we can increase but what does it take to do this? So this is concrete, this is mathematically clear, these are numbers. Well, that only takes one thing and it's called political will. Is there a political will? Was it so far? Is it now? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So it's more important for them to stuff their pockets full with bankers on these interest rates instead of paying 5 billion interest, they're paying 9.5. Well, they still need to get these managers into the fund, fund managers in pension funds that are eating us taxpayers, and they're showing off their bigger donations. So here's the call for any of you to challenge these numbers, bring your top economists who escaped from you because they see the ship sink too. Now we need new people who are going to go through it, simply, who knows how to do it. The balance is like this, we're gonna throw this out, we're gonna cut you down, we're gonna increase your moms and kids, that's it. That's it. Well, now dear citizens, dear mothers, you actually have a simple problem when elections come. Are you going to recognize people who know how they're going to solve your problem, or are you going to sit at home by some intruding, or are you going to sit at home like 45% of the people sitting at home when the election is? What else do we from the party Change Croatia offer as a solution? Look, we're sending out a fierce criticism but we're saying these are the solutions. What other solutions are we proposing? To eliminate VAT on children's clothes, food, shoes, everything. These are the miserable walks of the state budget. Someone's gonna tell Lovrinovic, you don't know this public finances well, the VAT can't be 0. Oh, please don't mess with me, look a little bit better and we'll discuss it. What do we want? We also support the foster mother's project, it's a good project, we'll accept everything that's good because the mother has to be sure that she would stay at home, to have one, two, three, but she has to be protected, after the third child doesn't have to do it anymore if she wants to. How can we finance that? Well, here, I showed you earlier. How else can we do that? Oh, we suggest that fuel excises stop focusing more on HAC, Croatian highways and roads, it's a bottomless hole, my people. Well, that dear God can't finance anymore. Well, that's billions of kuna. How do you solve the HAC problem? Well that's what we in the party change Croatia know, I've talked about but it's not a topic today. We can handle this one time. I'll talk about it soon, but not today. But direct excise duties to whom? Children, mothers, rural development, kindergarten construction. It's politics because demographic politics can't just rest on maternity benefits. So a mother, a young family, must feel the safety of life in a particular area, should give them as much land as I can, if nothing, a garden. Houses for one kuna, I see, a young mayor from the municipality of Legrad, near the Hungarian border, he made a great move and the young families came to him, they give him what is municipal property for one kuna, so these are moves, these young people, he's a young man. They see where the solutions are. And so, I won't talk, there are other solutions, but I want to send you fellow citizens a message of hope that as many people go out to this country, as few of us as there are, although we still have people for certain things that know how to handle it, but we need to get these, see, we can't do anything from them, we can't do anything about it. They're enough for themselves. Instead of seeing someone say they're increasing birth benefits, they immediately realized that 20 more people should be hired to take care of it. And another, let me not forget this, let me say, anything that applies to demographic policy, maternity benefits, extras, it has to go to one place all that money, we propose that we change Croatia, that it's called a demographic fund or a demographic reconstruction fund, that it all goes into it. So, I'm sending you a message of hope, we know, there are, numbers you've heard, money real there, my people, your task is simple, or they or we.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187736	Thank you very much. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Željka Josic speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187737	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Birth and Parent Support, which we are about two, three weeks ago. I've talked to her and I see that the debate continues at this very moment. Well, I'd just like to remind my colleagues, although it's primarily here, that we're talking about maternity and parental benefits, that it's not quite true that nothing about demographic renewal is going on in this government. Well, I'll just list a few things that have been done. These are construction and reconstruction of nearly 500 kindergartens, then extended kindergarten work and quality programs. New, then co-financing of kindergartens in the municipalities of the 1st to 4th group according to the development index, subsidisation of housing loans, then an increased basis for extras for children by 40%, and then reduced VAT on children's food, diapers, children's seats, and now could still be listed further. I'm glad we can agree on one thing, which is that it's positive that parental and maternity benefits are increasing. What should certainly be pointed out, and I would point that out again, if it had taken 10 years for birth and parental benefits to increase. I would like to remind you, in 2017, the first time in this government has been increased maternity and parental benefits, and now the second time the parental benefits that are almost tripled for employed parents are increasing. I will list only a few data, which is that in 2017 maternity and parental support increased from 2660 to 3990 kuna for employed parents, and for the unemployed from 1663 to 2320 kuna, to discuss today how they increase for employed and self-employed parents to 5654 kuna, which is almost 3 times the figure we started with. Personally, I believe that these measures should be seen as one of the measures for the protection of motherhood, the care of the newborn, as well as the coordination of business and family life. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has defined constitutional provisions to protect motherhood, children, youth, then create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a dignified life. We therefore believe that these parental and maternity support are designed to meet the child’s needs for the care and care of the child, and also enables parents to spend time with their child. By often talking here about the role of mothers who use maternity or parental support and I consider these measures to be an increasingly open road and door opening to include fathers in taking care of a child at its earliest age. What should certainly be pointed out is that we still live in a traditional society where mothers, or women, have taken on traditional care of raising children during their growth and development, but also of caring for the elderly and the powerless. I have already mentioned here the role of father as parent, what I think, and we should also point out that our current statistics do not go into this contribution and therefore, by increasing parental support, we believe that a growing number of fathers will be slowly involved in this early child care. The reason is the most common non-inclusion of fathers as well as the higher salary of a mother, as I said, conservative society and the traditional role of a woman. What we should point out is that each child needs quality growth and development, and he will only have it in his family, in the family in which both parents will participate and in which both parents will be satisfied. That is why we believe that these changes will also allow young families to be safer in their parental care, and we also allow each woman to be equal with her partner. We often mention that women are unequal in the labour market. In this way, I feel that women too will be able to return to their jobs more easily and that some of their concerns, parental concerns, can be quality transferred to their partner, or father, of the child. Personally, I believe that father and mother equality in child care at this earliest age will be corrected and that we are partly on the road to giving women a more equal position on the labour market. We believe that this proposal, the final draft of the law, is also very good on demographic renewal, and it is also one of the wheels that will significantly change all these fees that have been so far and allow parents to take better care of their child. That's why we, as the HDZ Club, will support this final bill, we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187738	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Stjepan Curaj who will speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187739	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. So the changes here on one hand are significant as far as finance is concerned, on the other hand they're quite practically short, it doesn't change much, but it's just saying that sometimes the smallest change can mean far more. Of course we support these changes that are the intensity in mind and above all the demographic aspect, of course, but I've always said that we should not just limit ourselves to the demographic part of the story about promoting natural growth, but also that whole framework, concept or what it brings us. So, the truth is that a lot of people, when considering whether they want to become parents for the first time, for the second time or for some time, take into account the financial aspects of the same. That's absolutely true, and we here in a good way are actually analizing it. Even amounts are more significant as regards the use of 120 to 170%, so up to the maximum of 5,600 kuna for those who work and have a salary of so much or more, or the minimum part that also increased 2 and 3, 2.5 years and almost 3 years ago, respectively, will be 1.7 if I am not mistaken for 3 years. And what is also good is that there is more attention to self-employed people and that there is liberalisation of the conditions for obtaining these fees, and now as for 12 months, there is a continuous 9 going on, and instead of 18 months observed as a condition in the last 2 years, 12 months with interruptions in the last 2 years are proposed in order to achieve a certain remuneration that is equal to an insurance rate or average, the average salary. Therefore, compensation has the right to be unemployed but those who have worked for up to 12 months or more in the past year will have more than 2 and a few thousand kunas, so at the average level. And that's what's good. What I suggested in my first reading and what I could certainly find is a solution and it has a solution that costs us nothing like a state, which is in some articles that are now not covered here, related, some are not, it's about being able to enable parents, so they use the possibility of working half the time, but not how it's foreseen in the law only if they're not from 2 months to 6 months of extra maternity leave so they can pass it on, but for all, no matter how they used the first 6 months. To simply say, as a parent of another 6 months of a child’s life or 8 if it has been transferred, or if 3 children, twins, etc., as already stated in the law, work up to half the time and maintain the right to full compensation as well as not to work. Why? The first and basic reason, of course, why we are doing all this is so that future parents are not discouraged with significantly worse financial incomes in actually making the decision to be parents, starting a family, etc. Because if someone, all happiness has a salary of ten thousand kuna, a mother who actually falls in half, it's not a small thing if we know that they know that there's a family they might have raised some loans to the housing etc. and de facto, it's a big blow to the budget. And that's the basic part, the financial part to encourage the demographic aspect. The second part that's not less important is professional, and I'm talking about mothers here first and foremost, because today even if finances aren't a problem, professional lagging behind, backwardness, actually untapped opportunities parenting carries behind, especially for mothers. Because we're aware as much as we want it, we don't want to admit that unfortunately employers always watch whether a woman is a mother or whether she's going to be or is already, if she means some sick, children up to 3 years old, etc., if she's not there are permits, maternity, maternity, preservation, etc. And that affects their position on the labour market, so, specifically, pay where we all know it's a generally accepted thing for women to get less money on average for the same job than men. And then with this we allow them to stay active on the labour market, professionally to further upgrade, not to be lagging behind, male or female, but here, first of all, I'm talking about mothers because it's usually happening in them, that those other 6 months can work from home, they can work 2 plus 2 hours, mean up to 4 hours, get paid for it, the employer pays contributions, taxes, means the state has bigger incomes, as a possibility that I can also use to stay with the child for as long as possible because for professional reasons and for financial reasons, they decide to go back to work for a full-time period and, and we know that for the first 3 years they are the most important in the child's development and that we should allow the longer stay of parents with their children and this way to contribute. So, financially and professionally, the state is costing nothing, and this is an ideal opportunity now to, together with the government, with the amendments that the government would intervene there to allow simply what I think is acceptable to everyone. I don't think anyone can say this wouldn't be an idea. It doesn't mean that someone has to, it doesn't mean that someone's going to be 4, can someone and an hour, 2 hours, anything to make financial and professional happen without falling behind in motherhood or parenting. First of all, I'm talking motherhood. That is why we are going to propose, I will personally submit certain amendments, some that even may not be accepted, given that these articles are not being considered now in these amendments, but as a proposal for the government to come out with its proposal, to simply include and think about it because I think that this is how we spread that story, we are expanding sensitivity and we are actually helping what is most important. Parents in the future and existing that this is exactly what they become or get even more children so they don't mind in their professional or financial aspects. I think that's concrete. The second proposal that I made to fix more on average pay, and not on the basis, but well, I accept the explanation of the promoter and the basis is kind of being adjusted just a little bit slower because we had a growth in standards and wage growth and that the same didn't always follow that pace, but it's important to increase, it's important to increase the fees, it's good, it's important to liberalize, it's good, that you can now get a fee and with less working time within 2 years, continuously interrupted however this would be even more important to enable them to do these work up to half the working time, once again, until half the hours agreed, with a 100% fee that goes anyway for those who would decide to do so. So we leave more parents with children, we give them the possibility that they are not financially damaged, and we give them the possibility that they can make professional progress and perfect themselves and work on themselves that it is not motherhood, paternity, parenting burden, but a gift as it actually is. Here, thank you, I hope the Proposer will respect these changes, and, of course, the HNS Club will support these proposed ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187740	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Branko Hrg's turn to speak for the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club as well as in first reading will support this proposal. We think it's just another measure taken back in the 3rd century. in the Republic of Croatia on creating a better atmosphere and enabling people to live easier, so here we are talking about maternity benefits, this is just one of those measures that have already been voted in this assembly backwards this 3.g. And we can't talk about any partial approach to this problem today, but we can talk about one framework that's been created and that is improving and being created from one year to the next, from one month to the next, so a different system that hasn't really happened. It started with tax reforms where, where people's tax discharges, citizens, means employees, then entrepreneurs, employers, are allowed to increase salaries, there's been a possibility of non-taxation of the amount being paid, here for housing in kindergartens and for many other things, so it's all a single package that is present all the time and I can't accept here absolutely any debate that's been brought here as a criticism just for criticism where there's some kind of partial approach, some segment of something that's been going on, it's not about any partial approach, it's about one policy that gets its own frameworks, one project, one programme that will give its results and effects just over a few years, so this policy can't give its effects and results in a month or two days or two days, it can't give it just for a few years or two years or two, it can give it's only for a few years, and that we've had a better policy for sure that we've had a better policy in Croatia. So this is something to bring in the total package, which will only give results in the future, but in any case it's a positive shift, and when we talk about increasing maternity benefits by several thousand kunas then we can't say it's not worth it and it's not good. So it's done within the possible, what the budget allows us, what can be done, that there's a lot of space, that there's a lot of problems, that there's still a lot of things to be solved, but one step at a time, one at a time, one at a time, one final framework will be made. Here, with these messages, our club accepts this bill and we look forward to such proposals being made before parliamentary representatives, we expect further improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187742	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. SDP should speak. Sabina the Voice, I can't see her, she's losing her right. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Puh will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187743	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'd like to say on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club that we definitely support this law and stand behind it. So it's another 2017. We had maternity benefits that amounted to only 2.600,00 kn, and here is the law that today is in the second reading and we raise the fee to 5.654,00 kn. I know it's not really a solution, and it's not the best possible solution, but here's the shift you can see is big, you'd almost say double, so we definitely have to accept one law like this. I am only taking this opportunity to express regret that we may not have taken a step forward in this law and that we have not embarked on the implementation of the Directive on the Harmonisation of Private and Business Life. I know that the time of implementation of this directive is only for 3 years, but why not sometimes be in step with the EU or in front of other countries in the EU. Why do we need this directive, and why do we need an institute of father's leave? Perhaps when that happens, the need to devise parental benefits may be recognised, or parents who stay at home with their children receive the same as if they were at work. This directive aims to raise greater equality in society and better sharing of responsibilities between women and men, as well as to reduce the gender pay gap and, of course, to pay beyond that and pensions. In one study, the European Commission has come up with information that women earn as much as 18% less than men and when it comes to the need to care for children, whether older people in as many as 78% of cases are women and who stay at home and who care and become care providers, which, of course, comes back to less work, less pay, and then again to less pension. In the Republic of Croatia, when I looked at the data, a very small number used parental leave. For the year 2018, when some 37,000 children were born, I found information that only 3,400 men asked to be home on maternity leave and to be with children. I once again note that if we had an obligation that fathers should be with children, then perhaps it would really be understood that a breakdown of maternity benefits is needed. As far as this law is concerned, except that we welcome these measures, which may be demographic, but actually may not be because they are a drop in the sea, I simply cannot mention the cancer of the wound in Croatia or the white plague. Demography is something that has been working on our heads for a very, very long time and for me with actions that we should have taken and with measures that we should have taken we are at least 10 years late if not 15. Looking regionally at the Republic of Croatia, we all know that there is a lot of talk in Slavonia about eviction and very few young families remain in Slavonia, but we should think and watch what is with other places in the Republic in which this picture is not so bad and where people are really still living, and that is where you would definitely mention your Zagorje. What I stand for and the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, to work more on infrastructure, to work on raising the quality of life in rural areas, that young families have all the opportunities they need, to have where to leave children when they go to work because unfortunately many young families do not have the ability to serve or grandfather services and measures that went on last year to build kindergartens in the Republic is one measure, but I believe that there is still a lot of places left that need to build kindergartens, which need to build kindergartens and cry out for them, and I hope that even in future financial envelopes that are being negotiated there are still some opportunities for all those who need it to work on a single balance of opportunities that people have and who live in the rural environments and in the City of Zagreb. And definitely one more thing, it's part of the Ministry of yours as a demographic, but I'm also calling on you to a little bit more maybe encourage cooperation and some meetings with the Ministry of Transport, which is that we need to make it possible for people to have a quick and good traffic connection with larger cities in their midst as soon as possible. Let's say for my Zagorje a good relationship with Zagreb would definitely be very helpful and what I've already talked about and I'm going to talk about is still an integrated transport which, I know the law is in preparation and in design but here it has been waiting for about a year, not to come to our tables to discuss it, to discuss it. Many rural areas simply have absolutely nothing to do with larger and urban cities. Most people know and everyone works in bigger cities because in smaller rural areas there are not many opportunities for employment and you when you look at each family must have 1 if not 2 cars so that they can come to work, so someone can drive children to school, because unfortunately there are no bus lines, there are no train lines because the current carriers are not cost-effective and leave the entire villages, the entire municipalities without any connection of public transportation to the larger environment. Integrated transport is the way we can bring back buses and eventually trains to people, when we look at faster people will get to work, less polluting the environment because the cars will stay at home, the big urban centers won't be so crowded with cars, so I invite you to see the Ministry of Transport work further on that law that we spend it as soon as possible because if people have a need, they'll actually realize that it's easier for them to move and live in a big city than to travel for 1.5 to 2 hours a day to get to work, and then we'll get a free country again, a burned country, and I think you can all agree with me that the quality of life is far better in rural areas, it just needs to enable that good connection so that people can stay in their houses in the countryside. Here, we support this Law on maternity support, and in the light of the adoption of future laws and future measures that we will have, I ask you to keep some of the proposals that I have made in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187744	Thank you, too. Mr Davor Vlaovic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187745	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries and associates, here on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, can say that we too will support this bill because HSS and I personally always support legislative proposals that are going towards increasing the standard of living for our citizens, especially mothers of childbearing, families who have been given the benefit of having a child in the family, surely that this compensation should be higher and that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is such, that the demographic situation is such that we are looking for a problem of emigration and more dead than all the key problems born, and that this government should be determined through strategic measures before this problem or looking for solutions, because it is a key question as to why we were already going for this, and all the regions and all the inhabitants to increase the birth benefits, why it was not until 1 April 2017? The answer was to prepare bill proposals, measures had to be prepared, funds had to be provided, so the fact is that money in the Republic of Croatia has, every year we hear from the finance minister to record surpluses in the state budget, here is no reduction or compensation, no reduction of VAT from 25% to 23% as promised, so money has only here is not directed to those measures that will contribute to ensuring quality life for our citizens, to decide to stay in the Republic of Croatia and to decide to increase their family. The situation is such that, more unofficial figures are mentioned, about 300,000 emigrated from the Republic of Croatia, and the key problem is that in 491 local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia there is a negative trend, so there are more deaths than born ones, even in 6 cities and in 6 counties, the majority and almost all units of local self-government record such a trend. So we're not too late with these measures, we should've done it 20 years ago, I agree with those who just said it here, but this government's only been going to increase maternity benefits since April 1st this year for 1,663,00 kn, which we welcome. However, it needs to be pointed out that still a large number of our citizens have paid more than, which is good, a higher salary of €5.664.00 and means that this fee for the other 6 months will be less than their salary, meaning that it is a blow to their home standard and budget and our proposal from HSS was in the first debate that why it did not go up to 100% of the salary and certainly that other measures should be considered and that it is not the role of this ministry alone, that it should also be designed to preserve the population in all our regions, especially in the deprived areas, in areas that are less populated and from which people are more evicted, and this is Slavonia, and Baranja and Srem and Lika, so and Podravina, unfortunately we have no answer to why. And it is good that the Republic of Croatia has put the EU presidency in focus and the problem of demographics and emigration. However, not all EU members are in the same position, 18 countries are recording, EU member states, an increase in the number of people and are responding to these trends not only from the Republic of Croatia but also from other countries in the environment, but there are RS with Bulgaria and some other countries in the worst position because we have the highest rate of emigration and not only of family members but of the whole family, this is the biggest problem. And according to us in the HSS and in me, we have to design models of moving to the Republic of Croatia because we, the pool we had, where the population came from in the Republic of BiH and other countries in the environment, practically do not have, is exhausted. Yes, the problem is labour force, quotas for importing labour into the Republic of Croatia have been removed, but there is already a problem that our employers must go to the countries of the Far East to have something to do with this year's tourist season and the construction sector in order to meet the agreed construction deadlines. Unfortunately, we were too late to react and too weak, these are measures that are not enough to stop these trends and our proposal is from the HSS to make all family and child benefits increase. So not only this maternity fee, but also the child's allowance, the child's gift, the untaxable part that the employer has the right to pay off. Why is he only until the 15th year of his child's life? Why not be as long as the child is schooled and why not make a bigger amount possible and that would be one of the measures? Because what's mentioned more than once, that we welcomed the reduction in VAT on baby food, diapers, drugs and other things, but the fact that most of these products in the trade chains left the same prices, so that VAT spills over to traders, didn't come to families. What is also one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia, which is working for a certain time because a large number of our young people get work contracts for a certain time, the highest rate is compared to the European members right in the Republic, young people who work for a certain time and the man who works for a certain time can neither get a credit card nor can raise credit, nor can credit be credited and bought a car or apartment, and how then does the family plan and increase the family? It is simply not possible, and models must be designed to reduce this share of work to a certain time, and to get jobs with employers, with HGK, HOK, and how to reduce the share of work to a certain time, and to get jobs indefinitely, it would certainly be one of the good measures that would help young people to get jobs and then to plan their family. It is mentioned here several times a large number of kindergartens that are being built and upgraded, it is certainly to welcome. However, we now have a problem that local self-government units have no one to employ in these kindergartens because young people do not have a qualified workforce and the problem is the financing of kindergartens and most local self-government units and a good part of them do not have such fiscal capacity that they can finance employees and that they can co-finance the parents' price of kindergartens and our proposal from the HSS that this part of the country is financed especially for those areas below the average per GDP in the Republic of Croatia and I think we must finally work on different social models and financial models that will preserve life in these deprived areas. If she could and knew at that time how to settle Slavonia, the military landscape and the part that was empty, then the Croatian government must also find models for people to settle in these empty areas. Why don't the state buy and have in every village 50, 100 empty houses, why don't you buy through APN or some other agency and property that are now at embarrassingly low prices because there are no customers and give it to young families who want to come back from Zagreb, Rijeka, Varazdin to rural areas for 20 years? Why don't the state do certain tax redundancies to such young families, free them from tax works so that they can live in the area and there are also a large number of our emigrants around the world who might come to Croatia if they offered such models to give them real estate and land to live in Croatia. There are a number of things Croatia could have done and this government should have developed such models through a demographic strategy, unfortunately we only have these individual measures that are welcome but not enough to stop the trend of emigration and are not enough to give young people a chance and an idea to stay alive in the villages. And they keep mentioning the role of local self-government units, and I hereby publicly congratulate all the commissioners and mayors who have increased the fees for each newborn child, who have introduced student scholarships in secondary schools, the scholarships of students who are now local self-government units also provide funds for the construction of the first real estate in their area, give favourable building permits, give favourable building land, give subsidies through the release from municipal fees but these are limited funds because municipalities and cities are not all in equal fiscal capacity and equal fiscal opportunities. And again, we're making a difference between the region and the region. Which are richer, of course, and I can single out more. I should congratulate the chiefs on this, so here and here is today a fine example of how the regional self-government can boost the growth of the economy in its field, especially the preservation of indigenous breeds, the Krapina-Zagorje County gives up to 25 000 kunas for this touring of Zagorje turkeys, are automatically enabled by these OPGs new incomes and security for this production. Such models can be designed in other regions, of course, that the Ministry of Agriculture has to coordinate it there, and it is certain that through such measures where jobs are kept, where the standard of our citizens is raised and that the young will decide and to increase the family so let's not let one county do more, it is more worth a turkey ego of a newborn child in Croatia because here, this way the municipalities, cities and counties have done more than this government and surely that this government has to find even more quality measures, means raising all fees and allowing every newborn child to have the same chance in Croatia for a quality life, tomorrow a new job, a salary from which they can live and, of course, without such measures, we will not stop this trend of emigration and Croatia will remain empty to us. If they're going to guard the borders, then? And who, tomorrow, if necessary, will put out the fire or keep the flood rise or flood settlements on the rise if those areas remain empty and remain empty? Therefore, we must seriously approach this problem with more concrete measures to a more comprehensive programme, targeted with the exact deadlines in charge and solutions and implementation from today, not from 1 April 2020 and possibly from 1 April 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187746	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Ante Pranic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187747	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. An independent youth list will support this law which, let's say, some small step is positive but we'll also say and let it know that you're trying to put out a big forest fire with a simple backpack. So we all know where Croatia is right now. So from Croatia when you sum up how many people have moved out, 2014. 20 000, 2015 29 500, 2016 36 500, 2017. 47,000, 2018. 39,000 people have moved out of Croatia. You had a similar indication when you proposed amending the Children's Compensation Act. At that time, the prime minister announced that 150,000 children would be more covered by changing censorship classes. Let's look at what these laws have brought from your sphere to present today new legal solutions and reassure us again that it will make some positive steps demographic. Of the 150,000 children announced, no 20,000 entered the sphere where parents can receive child benefits but the fact is next and it comes from the draft state budget. The 2019 plan includes state redundancies for families and children 3 billion and 930 million, meaning 3 billion and 930 million and in 2020. 3 billion 856 million, and this is less at the time when the least children in Croatia are born, for 100 babies you are less in 2019 than in 2018, when emigration is increasing rapidly and instead of finally realizing that demographics are a strategic issue for Croatia and that we finally take steps by undermining certain things and the main concern for rural space, what is actually happening within the roof ministry called demographics? So you have cash cuts, normally, which is why certain people, not certain people, but young people move out. This is one graph, a graph that is related to a child's allowance where we see, in fact, by percentage of GDP, that Croatia was more single in 2000 than in 2020. And that's our reality. And we are now saying that we don't have enough money, to give some positive impulse to all of us young people who are trying to survive and stay in Croatia, with some little changes, and basically when you see the state budget, you actually get more, less money in 2020 than in 2019. And instead of really, and you've announced inside of this government demography as a strategic question, look at what you've brought down demographics. Well, State Secretary Mr. Strmota, if I recall he resigned directly at the Prime Minister's press saying that all the measures of this government in terms of demographics are simple PR moves. You've changed the minister, you've changed a lot about people, but you've maintained the same attitude towards demographics, towards many young people who are trying to stay and live in Croatia. I really don't see your announced radical moves to send any positive change to these people because I repeat the estimated amount of money for family and children's policy in 2020 is less than the implementation plan for 2019. Instead of going progressively, instead of investing more in family, in children, we invest less. And then we wonder why 800 babies, let's say, have less 2019 than 2018, why rural spaces are empty. We recently tried to initiate certain legal changes at the press as a club of Independent Youth Lists on extras for children who haven't changed uniformly for 17 years. So it hasn't changed in 17 years, and it's all depicting what kind of demographic message we're sending in the future. So, colleagues were talking about kindergartens in rural space, so they're going to be building a kindergarten without any endurance strategy. The following year you have a fiscal balance of 25% less in local self-government units from which to hire tomorrow aunts in those kindergartens. So, my people, do you realize what you're doing at all and do you realize that you literally put a noose around the door for local self-government units where neither aunts have a job at all because you would miss 10 thousand and instead of going to legal changes on pre-school education, the same changes that you paid neatly, the Ministry of Demography paid for the study, neatly you've done that study in 2018, and you've done this study neatly, as well as many studies that show what steps demographically you should do neatly in the drawer. You have left for a future government to think about everything you haven't done, and you will continue to talk neatly and boast that we have the most important position in the European Commission's portfolio that Mrs Schuica, who comes from Dubrovnik where money invests in investment, and instead of taking perhaps someone from rural space who deeply understands the problems of demographics that can finally start some proactive sustainability measures, I am talking about sustainability because everything we invest through European money has no elements in sustainability, precisely in these kindergartens. You will look at the next year where many kindergartens that will be built will not be open because units of local self-government have no money or can project money to hire certain aunts at all. And that's the policy of this government towards, I say, the most important strategic issue, demographics. And really devastating, and what kind of picture we're sending to young people today, I say again for the fourth time after this pay phone, when we see state separations that for family and children for 2020 are less than execution for 2019. Send them a direct message, you from the Ministry of Demography to move out. Don't give us any hope, when there's no hope or hope, they can only arise when those options that have made all of this, which are HDZ options, but in smaller and SDP, they move out of the government's position because I can't be morally told today that they're going to bring back the future of the country to young families when you've moved young families with this kind of demographic policy. The question of where will these people or girls and the guys from the gallery who come with this policy and this kind of attitude to say family policy and children that should be progressive, and we see by the content and money that it is not progressive, how to give them some positive impulse to stay in Croatia, absolutely by no means. And it's really devastating, we want to accept every legal amendment, but everything tells you money in the government's register. You need uniquely to raise certain values in order to achieve the level of GDP allocation from 2000. This is a table for you, let's say, just a child's allowance, in 2002, the share was 0.77 in GDP, 2018. 0.34%. And we're talking about progressive progress. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187748	Thank you very much. At the gallery as we just heard earlier, there was a large group of XVI. High school from Zagreb, thank you for being with us and welcome them with a round of applause as we succeed, as many of us as there are. And now we're moving on with the debate, which becomes individual, it's over with the clubs. [[Applause.]] Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk will have her own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187749	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the primary interest of each country should be the protection of the family. Therefore, in order to protect the family it acts through one of the public policies, and in this case it is a policy of demographics. Issuing funds for children at all levels and areas and creating, of course, better living conditions. Today we are talking about this law, all of us, about the problem of demographicism, which is, of course, great in other EU countries as well as with us in the Republic of Croatia. Recognizing the chronic problem, the government has also appointed a ministry, the Ministry of Demography and directly tasked them to deal with demographic issues. The Revitalisation Council brought together 10 ministries, which can also contribute to changing these negative trends through their jurisdiction. But let us return to the final proposal of the Law on Birth and Parental Refunds. So, by increasing the fee by 170% and from 3.992.00 kn to 5654,00 kn, this is already the second increase in this government's mandate. The first increase was 2017. When it increased from 2.660,00 kn to, this fee increased to 3.992.00 kn, when we add it all together, it is 3.000,00 kn increase in the term of this Government. After the 11th year. Income censorship for children's allowance from 1.663.00 kn to 2,328.00 kn was also increased. Almost 500 kindergartens were reconstructed and built. In 96 kindergartens extended work has been started and additional programmes involving nearly 6500 children have been introduced, 836 educators have been employed, and that is what I am saying because we are all talking about harmonising family and business life, and how to coordinate it if we cannot even enroll children in kindergartens. What the government has done, and as regards the families and children and demographics of course, is a quadruple of the non-taxable amount of birth benefits, meaning from 2.500,00 to 10,000.00 kn, measures through housing are allowed to provide 9400 young families. Of course, there's also a reduced VAT rate on, from 13% to baby food, diapers, car seats, young people's release until 25. full of income tax, and those from 26 to 30 g. in the amount of 50%. What we should mention, and that is that through the pension reform, the measures taken by mothers during retirement are increasing the internship by an additional 6 months per child, and then on pension for each child is an increase of 2%, of course, which is one of the better measures. All of these may not be measures enough for the large return of all our citizens who unfortunately have moved out, but surely the government will, by its good policy, stop further young people from evicting to a better economic, economic situation, by increasing wages and standards. Of course, there are units of local and regional self - administrations that have started to monitor all these measures in the good part and which invest additional funds to keep young people in their neighborhoods. Here, of course, I must also commend my city, which is certainly one of the cities, for Slavonia we can say that it is truly poor and abandoned, which is taking additional measures to stop the emigration of young people and of course I welcome and support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187750	You have three replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, although one of the key reasons for amending this law is to increase the material rights of beneficiaries of financial support during the use of parental leave, you also mentioned the contribution of units of local self-government that define and advocate certain innovative measures, among them the question of the status of educators. What is your view of this question, do you think it is better to have the status of a full - time teacher or to remain a part - time person in the world of work, so let’s say that half of the working time has a parent’s status so that it can be more with children and still remain in the world of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187753	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, of course, that we should think long-term about this and certainly welcome in the long-term measures the adoption of this proposal by parents of breeders, but here you have also mentioned the units of local and regional self-government, of course those who, along with these material donations of the Government, need to be involved and all of us, of course, work together to fix and improve this demographic image currently in the Republic of Croatia and to stop the departure and eviction of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187754	He's right about the second line, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187755	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, in your presentation you mentioned the protection of family and motherhood and in any case I support it. But I would like to ask you, you mentioned kindergartens, all kindergartens are not subsidized because there are lots of private kindergartens where mothers pay and a very expensive price, I suggest that this country is subsidized, and even private ones, we know that demographics are bad, of course we have to take all the measures, this government has raised from 3.999,00 to 5.600,00 kn, that's a good measure, of course never enough, we should continue to work on it, and I think we're going in some positive direction, but the process that needs to be monitored and certainly raised is the most important demographic which is unfortunately smaller and smaller in Croatia for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187757	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Misic, that units of local and regional self-government decide on forming or subsidising childcare prices and of course should make sure that they are acceptable to parents and, as I have already said, we all have to engage to improve and improve this demographic image, of course here by taxing units of local and regional self-government I think that they have been allowed to invest more funds in these demographic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187758	The third line was fought by Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187759	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Maksimchuk, therefore demographic revitalisation should be seen broadly, I would say from those fundamental units of local self-government and all of course to the state, the state is doing as much as possible in accordance with its capabilities and these bill proposals, or this final bill, has actually put forward a series of measures to improve demographic revitalisation. This law or demographic image of the Republic of Croatia no instant program and it cannot be solved overnight. So we need to ask ourselves how and how to get a better picture, a demographic picture in the Republic of Croatia. It is not only money or financial or some material expenditure that will improve the picture. There are a number of other things that actually do local self-government units, I said but also state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187760	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187761	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed fellow demographic problem did not arise yesterday cannot be resolved overnight, it is a problem that I said met even richer EU countries. Of course it's not just money that matters to expand our family, it's like I said harmonising family and professional life, there's a lot of things, but here's just one of the steps that this government is taking to help and improve the demographic image of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187762	Mrs. Peric is coming up with an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187763	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here we have a very important law, or amendment and addition of the Law on maternity and parental support, and the first thing we need to say is that in the term of office of this government, there have been two changes and there has been a significant increase in birth and parental support. However, before that it should be said that all of these flat-rate and any criticisms referred to in this government are unfounded. Namely, if you look at how long it was done by 2016 and whether these trends should have been followed long before then I think that responsibility is on many others and when here colleagues mention some demographics who have bigoted their function precisely because they felt that nothing could and did nothing in one or not know how many years, then we have to say that you and such people didn't deserve to do these jobs because they obviously don't follow and watch the wholeness of the problem and that something would happen and that something should be created before that. And this is exactly what this government has been doing all the time, creating preconditions to strengthen both counties and cities and municipalities because only by synergy of the state and local units can then achieve this balance and development, or to stop the depopulation of young people and not just young people. But when someone who wants to do something overnight says that it takes 2, 3 or more billion kunas, then it's something that no government can do in those conditions in which it was just coming out of recession, it couldn't achieve it, it couldn't promise in such a way, but that the ministry's mission was to create preconditions, to make all possible surveys, scientific bases to then have elements to move on, it's exactly what the previous minister did, and that's exactly what this minister is doing right now. So when you look at it only in this segment that these birth and parental benefits have tripled, then it's a big step. However, what is also to be said, when certain municipalities and towns and towns or wishes are criticised, Pranic spoke about how cities or municipalities will not have fiscal opportunities to maintain individual facilities and pay persons or aunts in kindergarten, then we believe that each mayor and mayor must also have their own vision of development and create preconditions to keep the very working-age population and that this working-age population would bring certain incomes to municipalities. When opportunities were opened for measures from the European Fund for Construction, the construction of kindergartens, many criticised that they were not there, and when they opened here, the question now arises that this is irrational because it will not be maintained. Therefore, every individual who is at the head of any municipality or city must also have a certain vision, a certain responsibility and also a specific strategy in which he wants and can develop his own municipality or city. I will point out here that here we have in our county, in our city that these measures have been taken by my city of Zadar and Zadar County since the beginning of the city became a city in, since '93. and then they subsidized and co-financed and the stay of children in kindergarten also subsidized other services needed to maintain our working and young population. It also invested in many kindergartens and restored those who were existing but also upgraded new capacities. At the same time as it was a need for every child to be able to be this child in kindergarten, they created conditions with private kindergartens to subsidize that particular stay, and in this way we made sure that every child had the right and opportunity to be enrolled in kindergarten under the same conditions as in kindergartens where the founder of the city itself is. And not to say that the county is also included in the code, for every child there is an increase of 1,000 kuna for the first and second children, or for the third for each of the next 5,000 kunas, and also they have the right to have the same parents and in those who are in the city of Zadar, so the city itself, and also some municipalities have such fees. So, only by synergy of the county, the city, the municipalities and the state can achieve demographic recovery and that is what is not happening from today to tomorrow, from one year to the other, but is happening in one period, in one period and that is what should be taken care of, that the very rights given to this, and this new law is given and how great rights, that they are predictable and long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187764	Thank you. Mrs. Jelovac asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187765	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you have well stated how much efforts this government has put into a number of measures that are really going towards improving demographic imagery in society, but it seems to me that these measures themselves will not be enough at national or local level. It seems to me that we all have to open our eyes together and become aware that there is simply a family crisis in society today, that there is less and less of those who spread the message that the family is a nucleus of society, that every child in the family is a wealth of that family. We must be aware that young families today very often differ after a year, two after marriage, we must ask ourselves what to do to strengthen these families as much as possible because it seems to me that the financial resources and measures will not solve the problem themselves that we see in many rich countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187766	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187767	Thank you very much. My colleagues, yes, it is fundamental and the fundamental question is how strong they are and how high the quality of the family is and how much we support the family in such a way that, to enlighten both our children and all children so that they know and, in fact, we as parents show them how important it is just to raise children in families and how important family it is to promote society itself. So there is a family crisis and it is that tragedy that is inevitable, but we also need to know that the standards and desires of young people, and also careers and education, and everything else changes and, accordingly, we need to adapt legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187768	Thank you. Mr. Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187769	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Peric, well we have heard a lot about demographic policy today, and I simply cannot understand the criticisms of individuals, and even today when we are discussing increasing maternity and parental benefits for even, we can actually say more than 3,000 kuna in the term of this government, they have objections and have criticism. I will also mention tax redundancies, increased personal deductions, encouraging housing, subsidized loans for young people, free textbooks for elementary school students and a number of other measures. I would especially stress the construction and reconstruction of 500 kindergartens throughout Croatia worth more than a billion kuna. So also in my Ogulin where precisely thanks to the government, this government of the Republic of Croatia and the donated land of the city, but also enabled co-financing through measure 741 amounting to nearly 7 and a half million kuna and in response so much to demographic measures, or to those who criticise the work, and so do these governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187770	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187771	1Thank you very much, fellow Liposchak. In fact, each of you and of us can give 1,000 examples of what happened here in 2016, how many opportunities are open to local self-government units, regional self-government, how many open programs, how much of what you say kindergartens are made, so this is the synergy created by the government, and then everyone who is well-intentioned and who wants to step out of their local level can take advantage of it and do a lot more than he could when he didn't have these funds offered through these measures and European means. So it's just some people who just don't want to recognize the advantages they've achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187772	The next line has Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187773	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Peric, in your debate you mentioned a colleague who was actually saying that there was a certain infrastructure that they made from both the level of units of local self-government and with the help of the government or the resolution ministries, but as it was not thought that there would be a lack of funds for breeders or breeders, and that would not be sufficient resources for units of local administration and self-government. It is true that units of local self-government have the ability to run for funds that are related to raisers or raisers in kindergartens and do so, this is now a question addressed to them. But it's interesting when the Government or the Resort Ministry adopts and proposes certain measures then it's visible when actually our esteemed colleagues with the opposition have no constructive improvements or they are small and unrealistic, but therefore they have a destruction of the proposals which is actually not good and does not serve them the honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187774	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187775	That's right, the fact is that they do everything to be as destructive as possible instead of, and they actually took advantage of all the benefits of these that have actually been offered both the diaphragms, and they were taken care of when the incomes of these same municipalities and cities were increased. What is still to be said is that if, let's say, in the city of Zadar, we have a college where we have just preschool education and it is produced that a lot of people and breeders who are trained for this activity, which is why you and those in other parts of the Republic wouldn't give the same advantage to those interests with also some benefits to start and employ those people who say they wouldn't go there. Therefore, There's a way if you know. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187776	Thank you. Here's your next replica of your colleague, Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187777	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, colleagues, you didn't get a single word of criticism from this side of the pay phone and you won't get it for all the good, all the good policy that goes towards demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia, but that's not why I picked up the replica, but only because you said here is that there needs to be synergy between the Republic of Croatia and the government, the local self-government unit. Yeah, that should be the goal of this government. In fact, we are coming to the conclusion that certain units of local self-government as if they are leading some of their own policies demographically, and that is where certain competition comes from, to high standards. For example, the City of Zagreb has introduced such a standard that no unit of local self-government can surely follow and now pulls it all together. That's not good. So, this law should coordinate and define some measures for each unit of local self-government to where we can go, not to do this populistly, which is short-lived and doing competition between cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187778	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187779	Look, the City of Zagreb is specific, and when you look at 18% of the cut in the City of Zagreb, it brings huge money, and when it has over 8 or 9 billion kunas of budget, then it is something that is completely different from all of us, both small and small. But it does not prevent anyone from, beware in one period perhaps the city has the opportunity to give more for the firstborn or second-born child, etc., but perhaps there is a time when it can't single it out, but on each one of us is, of, of the leaders to project really and what is possible, and to take advantage of all the advantages that the general general gives State. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187780	And the last replica of my colleague Shucker here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187781	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you said well that this topic that we are discussing today should be a synergy from the lowest level, which is the units of local self-government to the state because if anyone here is having an appointment, because if we say that the family is the foundation of every society and if we know why the family is unfortunately falling apart, today we need to be aware that young people, first of all, think about our wives' colleagues, want to have a career and if you do not allow them to be around 7-8 o'clock in the evening, you have automatically disabled them. The other thing, when we talk about the Labour Act, then we also worry that our women, can't be blackmailed because they're pregnant or that they can't get a contract on indefinite working hours. This is great what the government has done, but we need to make sure some other legal acts make sure that these young people have security, if they have that security, then the family as the basis of every society will have greater hope of survival. and not that unfortunately our children are getting divorced. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187782	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187783	That's right, thank you, fellow Shucker. It really is necessary at one point, and every city and municipality has to evaluate, and we have been changing the hours in Zadar itself, for example. children's kindergartens, increased number of cheeky groups, therefore, that these young women and families can go to work peacefully and know, knowing that the child will be taken care of. So, what you're saying is, you shouldn't ignore exactly this second part of the legal provisions that a woman is being stigmatized not to get these contracts indefinitely because she's pregnant, but you should therefore further protect mother and motherhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187784	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187785	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I think that this final bill on amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support is commendable and that it will especially welcome all young families, young moms, young fathers because it changes significantly both parental and maternity benefits. Namely, and in preparation for the national development strategy by 2030. and the World Bank has made a recommendation pointing out that the more adequate compensation for parental benefits will be the fastest and nearest pay achieved previously, of exceptional importance both for the higher birth rate and for the greater involvement of women in the labour market, and for the more active role of fathers in raising children. We have already heard that there is essentially an increase in the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents of 120%, meaning from 3.900,00 kn to 170% of the budget base and 5.654,00 kn for the first 6 months if this right is used by one parent or the first 8 months if both parents rightly use it. It is also proposed to amend the period of previous insurance instead of 12 months continuously proposed 9 months and instead of 18 months with interruptions in the last 2.g. is proposed for 12 months with interruptions. That's what we heard when the secretary of state was on behalf of the promoter and a number of colleagues and colleagues, and I would point out that this requires additional funding in the 2020 budget. 214 million kuna in the coming years, 160 million kuna, while in the coming years 214 million, which means total in 2020. For additional maternity leave, a billion and 720 million kuna will be allocated, while national years, even a billion and 744 million. These are considerable resources and great assistance to our young families, especially if we add that in the HZZO budget, too, because the conditions for the length of the previous internship are changed further ensure 45 million in this year or 65 million or 67 in the coming years. This government has also given its special place in its programme the accent of demographic restoration, family and youth, and said that the most valuable Croatian potential has always been people and their values, which, with traditional and spatial characteristics, make up the special cultural wealth of the Republic of Croatia and Europe, and that with their direct and indirect measures of population policy, will affect the rise of birth, change the compensation and everything else, and that is exactly what it does. She'd remind me she was 3. The term of office is that this government is aware that the Croatian population is ageing and is faced with all the negative phenomena of this process, including emigration, especially young people, had to reconcile its policy and, and the unstoppable mobility of our people and the fact that without people there is no progress or development. So in 2018. She would remind herself that 417 children were born more than it was a year ago, and the number of deaths was also reduced by 771 people. If we add that there is a reduced number of displaced abroad compared to 2017. We see that we're recording a positive trend. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with this, and we must all work together to continue to do even better, to give and offer people and better measures in order to keep this trend in the upward path and faster. The income census for extras for children from 50% of the budget base has also changed to 70%, thus allowing the number of users to be expanded. Furthermore, it was built as we heard from colleagues and restored 500 kindergartens throughout the Republic of Croatia, which is unprecedented in our history and thus employed 836 workers, allowing two-way work in 96 kindergartens. I am proud to say that I come from Sibenik-Knin County that 55 babies were born in Sibenik in January of this year, which is 45% more than we did in January of last year when 25 babies were born and that this continued the positive trend we have in 2018. when we had about 12% more births and more babies than it was a year ago. It is certain that we will enjoy a demographic turn in the Dalmatian islands where we also record more and more inhabitants, so the island of Solta has 23% more inhabitants, there are 20 more families in Vis, on the Long Island there is an increase of 190 locals and, of course, each of these mayors, there are some measures that the state has already offered and the state is doing for a demographic turn, and they themselves are doing in their own area, which they believe can bring exactly greater numbers and remains of young and increasingly numerous families. For example. I don't know, Sally says we have 14 first-graders more since the year before was only 5, na, in Vis are also preparing for the construction of 22 apartments from the state-run project of encouraging housing, etc. When we talk about measures that have also helped young families, it should be said that, they are secured by mothers and an additional increase in tomorrow's pension of about 2% per child or adopted and that it is already used by about 10,000 women, which means that both those mothers who have not been employed and who have not used their maternity leave, since they were unemployed at the time they gave birth to their child, going to retirement will allow them an additional about 2% more pension. This means we triple the parental fees and would further point out that, even with encouraging housing, the measures allowed about 9,000 young families to secure their home by subsidising housing loans. This government has also contributed to the EU Commission of Demography becoming a special portfolio, and it is precisely our Dubravka Shuica that has been given a special task thanks to Croatia's appeals, and we believe that this, not only during the debate and the measures taken by the EU Commission, but also in the distribution of funds that will be made available in the next financial perspective, demographics will receive a significant place. When we talk about families, we should not forget that in rural areas the Zaželi programme has made the same significant step, there has been employed about 6,300 women, especially those who have been hard to employ and in these less developed areas and there are about 30,000 households in such a way that they have been helped by these women who would certainly be more concerned about young people and families and women who also, because of this one measure could be more free and sooner to decide on another child. I think all these measures that the government is doing and that it's done so far are commendable, that they show results, of course we don't have to stop at that and that we have to work harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187786	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Maximchuk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187787	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues. Today, we are talking about the Law on Birth and Parent Support, but we associate it most with women. The children have that other parent, the father, you looked back at that part of your discussion, but we have information that only 2% of your fathers used that maternity leave in 2018. Here, do you think there's a possibility of a greater father being involved in parenting?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187788	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187789	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. So I believe that this very amendment of the law will contribute that many fathers will consider whether they too use these new measures. Namely, now the difference is to use something 6 or 8 months at a higher rate, that surely the father will decide to be a few months and that for the first few months with his child because I believe that young fathers are more and more active and changing diapers and feeding and stuffed bottles, so why not decide to do something like this and stay with your child.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187790	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. You started with numbers and I think that, behold, colleague Zekanovic sat next to me, he said during the first reading that a great deal of nothing was done. If 750 million kuna is nothing, if that's 1660 kuna increase, it means almost 42% nothing, then I don't think that argument is definitely standing. This is one big step forward because, in fact, by strengthening the material standard, we strengthen the role of family in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187792	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187793	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Cellic, that's why I've put out a lot of numbers because we can't lie if we say, 500 kindergartens are restored and made, I didn't say 1,000, but I said 500 because it's really a number that's verifiable. I don't know, 96 kindergartens have got two shifts, 850 women, most often women are employed. Therefore, in addition to these amounts, which will be provided and the money provided in the budget, it speaks enough about how much this government does for demographics and demographic restoration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187794	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187795	Well, here you go, pal, you mentioned on two occasions that a large number of kindergartens have been restored. Unfortunately, though, some environments continue to have a problem with preschool education, or with a small number of preschool jobs, and you yourself were the mayor, so you probably got involved with the problem. Of course, some cities continue to refuse to co-finance both private and religious kindergartens, so I wonder how you handled it in your small town.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187797	Thank you very much, colleague Josic. Even in the area of the town of Vodice, a private kindergarten worked, and the town of Vodice co-financed their work at a certain amount to pay the same fee as going to that city. I think that's okay, especially in all those environments, and now we have a lot of cities and municipalities, so is the town of Vodice, that we have sweet worries, that we can't put all the children in the city kindergarten and I think it's correct to co-finance in that amount so that parents can pay the same fee for accommodation in the city, or private kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187798	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187799	Dear colleagues. Here's the other side. The town of Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County is one of the blackest points on our country's demographic map. The city of Sibenik loses about 400 to 450 people each year. So there are more dead than there are born. The fact that a few more children were born last year compared to the clans, I commend that measure, but we are still at a loss of 440 children compared to the dead, and we are not talking about moving out yet, so that is one of the blackest points of demographics in our homeland. For those of you who don't understand it, Sibenik was in '91. 41 thousand people, and today there are below 29 thousand people, which is a decline of more than 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187800	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187801	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Zekanovic, when I was taking the numbers, I was saying exactly what it stands for. So we have 45% more born in the Sibenik maternity home in January of last year than last year, we have 12% more born in 2018 than in '17. When I talked about the figures at the level of Croatia, I also said we have more born, we have fewer dead, we have fewer evicted, but it's still all negative, we still have to admit it, and all together, as I said in the last sentence, we have to try to, to have even better numbers about the number of people born, the fewer people who died, and the most that people don't move out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187802	Thank you, and the last replica of my colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187803	Dear colleagues. So here's when we talk about numbers, and you're talking about numbers that mean in terms of the state budget, it's what this law is about, and it's about in 2020, a billion and seven hundred thousand kunas, 774 thousand kunas, or 720 thousand kunas, and so, in all the following years, it's about that young families actually have to have this predictability of everything that's going to happen in a year, two or three advances, and also, the very fees that come about at the levels of the cities and the municipalities, they're not really going to stimulate the birthmark itself unless this predictability of the future is embedded in the laws that we're now making.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187804	Thank you. We continue with, I apologize, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187805	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Peric, you said well, and it is good for our young people to hear how much in the state budget or in the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is provided. All those criticisms that we received from the opposition, or I would say prefer proposals, that it would be good if the fee was even higher, and that it was the same for the unemployed, and that we further stimulate those with three, four and more children, and so on, all that stands, and we would also, and all the representatives of HDZ, and especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we need to be aware of how much we can at this point provide the funds, and if it had no amount, say these figures of a billion and seven hundred and some million kunas and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187806	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next one is a colleague of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187807	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's any doubt about whether this legislative proposal should be supported, but there are a few issues that are important to be mentioned in the context of this debate, and since the secretary of state is here with the co-worker, that he hears it, too. In fact, the measures are good, we could say that the direction of these measures is good, the intensity is as it is, colleagues and colleagues have rightly warned so far the question of sustainability in fact and budget, and everything that we can finance from the budget, and the increase of such measures, because it is not necessary to interfere with the fact that, here and today, the budget for this year may be in danger, given the appearance of and the coronaryvirus, and the refugee crisis, because we do not know how this will reflect on our tourist season and generally on the economy, because the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is now warning that GDP could fall in view of the endangered, threatened areas of the economy related to these two phenomena. So, in that sense, I also think that we should be careful, and of course not put into the laws of unrealistic promises so that they could not be fulfilled afterwards, but that is no reason not to mention vulnerable groups or people who are talking to us, who at this point are writing messages about their problems. I'll only name two, two problems. First, it's about leave and childcare with more serious health damage, until the eighth year parents rightly warn and claim that 2,382.00 kuna is little, they rightly say it's small, and they ask you, Secretary of State, do you think it's too small. And the other thing is, about that, I was in free speech once when I warned, and the carers themselves warned when they had a protest, it's the inability to actually use their spouse sick during the time until they're able to nurse a child. So when, if they get sick, here... This case let them get the coronaryvirus, then in that case the other parent can't take care of the child, because they can't take care of the sick, these are the problems they warned about, but it's not a key problem, a key problem that at that point they have to actually hand over to the institution, which is certainly not the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and let's imagine that one of us parents who have this happiness that we have healthy children, that we, during the time we are sick, a child, someone, anyone takes away from us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what our parents say. It was a duty to warn us. Another thing parents warn about, and in the context of this debate, the wider debate, the censorship is a mathematical term, we calculate it by dividing family, family members, and receiving with family members and getting a censorship. But things aren't always so black and white, there are single parents. So it was about a father, or a mother, and they count the censorship equally, but they, they think they're in a more difficult situation. And that should be considered in the future, whether a single parents ’ censorship should be calculated in another way, not just by the mathematical division of the number of members. And now let me briefly refer to the essence of this law, why I think it's a good one, and why, why, why, I don't think it's going to achieve that goal that we actually want. It is good because it increases rights, meaning it increases the level of rights and both financial and time frames they propose and there is no doubt there is a need to support it. However, this goal that we want to achieve is surpassed only by this resolute ministry. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System should also be included here because the measures they give mothers 6 months of work per child are all right, but we must look the truth into the eyes and what the European Commission warns us about with the latest report. Women in the Republic of Croatia are discriminated against, so they are not in the same position as men. Whether it's about hiring women, whether it's about making progress in the business of the so-called. glass ceiling, whether it's a situation in these specific situations of life like the motherhood, so parenting, in these situations women are not in the same position. And what's most important is the pay gap. I found the information, maybe he's the wrong secretary of state, very few fathers use parental leave. You know what parents, who fathers use those who have less pay than their husbands, and they are very few in the Republic of Croatia. So these are the questions that we have to ask, if we want to look the truth into our eyes, we have to face them. Croatia is probably the only country that does not have compulsory parental leave. So, perhaps the measures that would oblige fathers to use parental leave might do more than these measures because in that case employers would look differently at their rights, actually the rights of employees during the use of parental leave. What we can see in developed countries is that they are mainly the problem of the one who is extremely present in Croatia, and that is what the European Commission warns as a key problem. We have institutional care for the elderly and children mostly women. Women worry, 1/3 women in the Republic spend a few days caring for older people inside the family. It's the same thing about taking care of children. Here you mentioned kindergartens, for sure to welcome built kindergartens, but again the question of units of local self-government and their capacities is being asked whether parents will be able to pay for the accommodation of children in kindergarten, here I am talking about Slavonia where the demographic picture is very bad, not only in Slavonia, of course throughout the Republic, but also in Slavonia where there are no jobs. And then will the local self-government units be able to perform here and co-finance the stay of those children in kindergartens? So the key issue for achieving the objective and demographic measures is, of course, the employment and position of women in the labour market. This is a key question, and if we solve this issue, and then these measures, too, I stress again, should be welcomed, will have a much greater result. And to conclude, I will support this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187808	One replica. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187809	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Žagar, you have been troubled by your presentation of the use of parental leave by your fathers and how you stated that we do not have a mandatory parental leave. Yes, we are obliged to give birth leave that is those up to 70 days of child birth plus, or minus 28, this is later an additional birth of up to 6 months, later it is parenting. One of the things I'd like to draw attention to is exactly what I did and he suggested that we provide this parental leave, an additional 6 months for people to be using full-time and working half the time, because in this way they would have extended it, more people would have decided to stay home because they wouldn't lose their financials, but they wouldn't have lost anything professionally behind. And I think there's actually a solution not to impose a commitment on someone but... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187810	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187811	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Curray, for reminding me to say one more thing. It seems to me that developed countries have resolved and related to the position of women in the labour market, in many developed women, countries, women work for 4 hours a half-hour and say that they are even paid financially. I guess the salary policy is that it's worth it, and now how much it affects later on, I don't know, but I think that in developed countries, it's settled in some of the possible ways. In this sense, your proposal is very good, therefore, to allow for staying on the labour market which is important, and to keep the fee, it is one of the good things, but the prerequisite for everything is certainly a better economic picture in the Republic of Croatia and it must include not only this ministry, but most ministries to fix this picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187812	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187813	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, I won't be long because we've mostly talked about what was in the first reading, and there may have been some more talk about things that you've actually said in this final proposal. So first, I commend both first reading and second reading and should actually be discussed with such important laws. You don't remember, but those of us who were in that previous meeting used to happen that 90% of all these things were received by an emergency procedure, and that's what the vice president of the Croatian Parliament will remember, where we didn't really know what and when we talked about every day, today we had a chance to talk about it with this bill and in the first month here at the 3rd month about the final, final draft of the law. So, I commend both the task force and all those who took part in the public consultation with their suggestions and their proposals to actually come up with the best solutions regarding this final bill. As for the clubs themselves during the day, clubs generally praised each of these measures, of course there were certain dissonant tones I understand, these constructive improvements are always good, but these destructions in the proposals don't suit me at all, nor do I accept them as such if someone doesn't have one, one concrete, concrete measure. Which, as far as the bill itself is concerned, and regarding what the colleagues were saying, they say something in a plastic, plastic example. So, in units of local administration and self-government, each is in its own way, so we can't look at units that are in the north of the Republic of Croatia and the south of the Republic of Croatia, east or west, they all have certain demographic problems, but they also create or co-creat policies in their area. Therefore, no one in the units of local or regional self-government is prohibited from acting autonomously in its policies to adopt certain measures that will improve such a picture. So, the demographic we talked about maybe three or four years ago. as reform of all reforms, and I will keep saying that, because it will actually happen for the next 10 years in the Republic of Croatia. Those who follow demographic movements in both the Republic and the world can make certain comparisons. Europe is unfortunately a dying continent, that's true. What are the reasons we can or can have great debates. The fact is, that's what I was saying in my first reading, we have to change the social climate. So it's not just a financial reason, and it's not the only reason why more children should happen and be born. We or we have examples in municipalities and cities where you have extremely large expenses for three or more, or more children, but children are not born again. So you need to look at the wider picture and say that you have to change the social climate. All institutions must participate in this social climate, so not only institutions that are related to public and state authorities, local self-government and state and ministry units, but also... and the religious communities and the HAZU, so everyone, to improve that, that picture. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for individual colleagues who have spoken to comparisons with other countries, of course we always need and we need everything that is good in some countries so that we can change it in the Republic according to our financial opportunities or fiscal opportunities. However, it is necessary to look at both geostrategic and geopolitical and traditional and cultural, cultural, customs as much as you want not in every country, is not comparable to the Republic of Croatia. So certain things that are acceptable to say in Sweden, Finland and Norway can't happen to us, which is why, behind that part of using fathers through, through these fees because it's more used by mothers, that, that's true. As far as local administration and self-government units are concerned, I would also like to commend our county with one measure “There is my home” which actually disperses that part of the entire county not only on the islands in the coast but also in Zagora that people do not actually go to larger centres but that they stay where their better quality life is and that they can use the same or, or the same rights. The colleagues who said that a lot of children were less or less born, one of their colleagues pointed out that, the truth is, 40 classes is less in 2019. either, but I'll remind you something, I've seen both my colleague Kujundzic and HZJZ, and I think that's what my colleague Celic said, so I'm not going to go into the reasons for any interruption of pregnancy or abortion, but the fact is that from 2016 to 2019. Legally, so the number that is related to abortions is 26923. So if we divide it by the number of students in the class, on average about 20 or 2, that's 1346 classes by 20 students. So, it's not a small or inescapable number, I said I'm not actually going to go into cases related to termination of pregnancy and reasons, of course, but we should think about that too. So it's also one of the forms that can be discussed and how demographic revitalization should be discussed. And something else, I'm not going to mention to the municipality, but by talking to the heads and colleagues of the municipalities, one of the chiefs told me like this, so there are 178 men in my municipality over 24 years old. who completed college or high school education, materially fully situated, so with one apartment or one house and a car, and are not married, we don't know the reasons. Then they said maybe because they weren't busy. However, according to HZZ of these 157 people, 96 were employed, but still do not start families. That's why I'm saying that the social climate needs to be changed. And if I didn't take up a lot of your time because I was talking in my first reading about it, I'd like to ask you State Secretary something too. We received several e-mails regarding women who are married to Croatian citizens, but because they do not have a residence longer than 3.g. I can't use this right, if it's possible, I can't say it's a discriminatory decision because we've been making it through the law and I don't know if it would have any financial repercusions and fiscal ones to the budget, but maybe you should think about this or if you have a need in the end maybe answer for it or for those citizens who ask us, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187814	Two replicas to your presentation, her first colleague Maximčuk, and then her colleague Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187815	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, a good part of today's debate was debated about the situation of women. Empowering women on the labour market is certainly one of the preconditions for deciding on motherhood. So do you think there's room for some of the other laws that my colleague Shucker was talking about, it's the Labour Act, or by stimulating those who are hiring that if they were to receive a woman that, in fact, they don't question her how many children she's planning to stay pregnant, so she doesn't have to worry about going back to work after the maternity leave, and I think that a very powerful woman will certainly make it easier and easier for her to decide on maternity and childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187816	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187817	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Maximchuk, thinking about it and preparing for this law, even in the first reading when you mentioned motherhood then I thought about it, life begins with conception. So, what about women who carry their pregnancy for nine months and don't have and don't exercise such rights, but only after birth. So the picture could be expanded, so maybe there's a way to talk about it. You shouldn't go maybe that far, but what you said is not a problem just in Croatia. Large multinational companies have contracts where women are banned from actually being born when they're in such positions. Speaking of a wider picture in the Republic of Croatia and through that proposal for pension laws, a set of pension laws, we're politics, we're ruling, if there's political will, and there is, then you can do whatever you want. This also changes the laws or empower women in the labour market, of course, with an agreement with the employer and the government's reaction to the employer's contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187818	Thank you. Here you go, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187819	Dear fellow Grandmother. You mentioned the financial situation and now as the key to deciding whether to have more children or not. Many of our cities and municipalities, mostly all of them, along with all of these state-level measures, from free textbooks, work notes, opening numerous kindergartens in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, from the financial resources invested in it, is an absurd situation that families that are financially and financially stable are not determined to have children or have only one child. So the key to everything is the change in that part that you mentioned, the social climate, the incentive to do so, but in completely different frameworks because the financial situation is often not the only key for young people's families to decide whether to have children or not. We have come into a situation that practically the whole of Europe is acting this way and the financial situation in this case is not the only one that can encourage someone to have children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187820	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187821	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear counterpart Klaric, I said, it's a broader debate, I've read a lot about it, I've talked about it, I've exhibited about demographic data, I can tell you now about Europe's data, let's say, one Hungary has fallen below 10 million people for the first time in its history, one Germany has this problem, Sweden, etc. What you're talking about today may be in one question and you're also talking about a colleague, so more and more matures one climate so that we can combine these measures with the units of local self-government, county and state, maybe think about one parent law. So not to the mother, but to the parent, in which we would allow all women in the Republic of Croatia to be paid contributions, and that they could actually use it right up to the age of 18 of their child. I think that we would then make one huge step and that demographic image in the Republic of Croatia would look much, much different, give security, I say, in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia from Ilock to... to Konaval. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187822	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is my colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187823	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I once said that one of the best actually demographic measures is good economic policy and economic growth. But we absolutely need to be aware that it is not alone and that it will not bring us that necessary distinction because if it were, then all Western advanced countries would have a positive growth, and we are actually witnessing that some in Japan and other Western countries are not, and they have economic growth and they have the well-being that we should strive for. But you don't need to take it lightly. The idea in which parenting should not mean financial loss other than the cost that it is, an additional member of the household, especially the child, the baby, we know what it is, the equipment and all that it carries with it, and that should be taken into account. Because it would be very sad that today in Croatia someone decides not to have a child because there is no financial means or money because it would be devastating, that would be sad. Today you're looking to have a job on an indefinite, stable, preferably in a state-owned firm, of course, have a settled housing issue, a car, so if you're in a professional career, you'll take her on some road where you'll be satisfied and how one by one, it's prolonging all the way into the parenting world and then until it's maybe too late. Now, one part we can, the other part should ensure not by prescribing certain obligations, but by always putting people's choices into place. If they didn't lose their financials because, let's say today, we're going to give 50, 100 thousand kuna to every newborn child, honor to the exceptions that will confirm the rule, I doubt it would be a motive for entering the parenting world. But it doesn't have to run and say that it can't be demotive, if people can't afford another or child more, which is behind them and the housing of the housing issue, and so I say, demographic policy is so broad, when we look at it, these housing issues, we have subsidized housing loans that are now going on at the end of this month, where we really encourage people to commit to real estate, to stay in Croatia and to allow this settlement of the housing issue as one of the main preconditions for family creation, that is, entering the world of parenting. POS apartments too, that's part of it. These fees, the same thing. Our standards are growing, our wages are growing. Whether I accept it or not, they'll never be enough, but far better standards today than they were 15, 20 or 5 years ago. That's a fact. The purchasing power grows, grows and needs and meets them. That's the second pair of gloves. And the story is very simple. So we have an aspect that we are discussing here today that we are going to increase financial compensation, and we have another possibility that I have put forward to allow, with these retention of the same financial benefits, to allow young parents to go on and work, to professionally perfect themselves and to raise that pay gap, if it is already so crucial, somewhere it is not, but professional improvement, development, advancement, especially for mothers or women, is already another pair of gloves. Here we come to that discriminatory part where women work more, earn less, watch them be born, watch them have young children, whether they hire them or not. In this respect, and in this respect, I have put out here not something unrelated to this law, but something that I hope other members of the government and the ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance, are looking at is the situation for employers to give certain tax reliefs to every female who remains pregnant or who is born during a working relationship. For as long as she's on maternity leave, as long as she's on maternity leave, as long as she's on parental leave or one-times whatever. Let's make it possible not that it is most unfortunately no one will say it, but it is unfortunately happening that someone who is a mother or anyone who wants to become a mother is always put in a more unfavourable position in employment or in the workplace. In particular, here I am talking about the private sector, and God gave it to us, and I hope that this private sector will be the bearer of all economic activities and the desired sector and the first choice of our young people for employment, because it will be able to develop and establish and earn much more money than in the public sector. Today, unfortunately, we still don't have that much, so then this pressure will stop and the public sector and it won't be as much like some jackpot that unfortunately today is, but all in its own time. So I say we go one more step further. This proposal I hope will discuss, come out with some solution, surely it can, the state will not cost as much as it will actually allow those who do not decide after 6 months to use parental leave and for financial and professional reasons to return to work actually stay as long as possible with the child. Mothers to stay with children because they say the first three years are the most important. So let's make it that way. Economy is the key, but it's not the only solution. Financially, it's also important, but it's not crucial or crucial. We need more to determine that growth in all fields, by every wheel that makes up demographic recovery, especially for us who come from these parts of Slavonia, Baranja and others in the Republic of Croatia where people go as far as bread goes, which for opportunities, which for professional training, which from smaller places to bigger and reduce the chances of success and growth at all. Today, the city of Osijek lacks an 8-9.000 employees to have some serious perspective of the remains, and it is the brightest example in all Slavonia and Baranja. Let's do this, let's tie them through the smart housing policy, let's tie them through the smart policy right now of the law on fees and support, let's tie them through tax relief tomorrow, let's go further through economic development in general and the possibility of them developing. And then maybe we'll have what we want, and that's also a positive growth and bringing people back and giving God even more children in our homes, especially to us in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187824	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187825	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. Respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the law that today is before us is making normly small changes, new changes will achieve a positive social impact and improve the status of our future users of maternity and parent support as well as those who are using them now. The biggest measure we are carrying out with these changes is certainly an increase in the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave for employed parents. This is the second in a row to raise the government's compensation, originally raised in 2017 to 120% of the budget base, i.e. today's limit of 3.991 kuna. While these changes raise this same limit to 170% of the budget base, i.e. 5,654 kuna, which ultimately represents an increase of 42% in the term of office of this Government. I would only remind you that the benefits have been increased for unemployed parents as well. or those who do not comply with the legally prescribed condition of the insurance hold, those 12 months continuously or 18 months with interruptions which are cash-earthed growth from 1,663 kuna to 2,328 kuna. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] This measure, i.e. another measure that has gone somehow below the radar, represents a major step towards young parents, as it is precisely changing the duration of the previous insurance of the working parent as a condition for the exercise of the rights of this law in such a way that the duration of the previous necessary insurance is reduced from the current 12 months to 9 months and from 18 months to 12 months with interruptions over the last 2 years. These changes have come upon the great approval of our young parents, future parents, and certainly represent an important demographic measure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, unlike all previous governments, has made the most of its efforts to provide better conditions for young families through various programmes, and I will only point out that these changes fall within the EU's very summit of support. This measure certainly also represents the protection of motherhood, the protection of children, the protection of young people with the aim of creating a more favourable environment and financial, financial conditions for the achievement of social, material and other conditions that ensure a more dignified life. This is particularly important when we have in mind these many years of unfavourable demographic indicators, and I believe that with a moment of time, we will see how important and important these changes are. What is also important is to continue to improve the status of our parents, to go towards the demarcation of these amounts in order to encourage parents to use parental leave to ensure the best standard of living for our young parents because I am sure that the very low benefits were one of the reasons for the weaker use of maternity leave, mostly fathers who unfortunately are only about 2%. And as a young parent of two children, I am very aware of the positive steps we find within these changes, and I absolutely support the increase in the amounts mentioned, and I am convinced that they will contribute to the coordination of both the private and business lives of young parents, ultimately increasing the birth rate and making it easier to decide on parenting and family expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187826	Here's to... Make up for one replica, Comrade Bull, go ahead. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187827	Thank you very much. A colleague, of course, of any measure that increases, means a social measure i.e. This measure, which, but this is one measure in essence, is how the government also called for a demographic strategy for the Republic of Croatia. The revitalisation of these areas, however, takes hundreds of measures to survive in these areas. I don't see any reason why when it went into maternity care that didn't increase it and let's say this is what MOST suggested 400 million kunas or 0.27% of the budget would be involved, so not only help the mothers, parental leave here was planned for grandparents kids who do this to their grandchildren, while parents would work. Therefore, the measures when they were working, then said Strmota, not only do measures, your secretary not only do measures for theatre but make measures for the survival of people in the area. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187828	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187829	Well esteemed colleague Bulj, I agree with you in part, but what is important for us to point out for our debate that we here talk about one measure or one law, of course that these measures are much more, you know how many kindergartens this is, this government has built, it is over 500 kindergartens, you know that it has grown and paid, you know that it allows young families through residential lending to make it easier to buy the first real estate, and all of this when we sum up creates a huge measure that helps our young and, and helps to change these current results when we talk about demographics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187830	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. National and social priorities include definitely the demographic development of a country determined by the size and structure of its population. For almost all of today’s developed countries, the desired direction represents an increase in the number of children born and on the other hand of the working age population. However, besides national levels, local levels are also very important. Therefore, the local level not as a substitute for state intervention, for recovery of birth, but in terms of more efficient implementation and upgrade of population policy measures that the state promotes. There have been speeches here about the competence of local self-government units, and I don't see any problem with it if there are some units of local self-government that are better standing, some that are worse standing, on different issues, not only on economic but also on demographic issues. For example, the health staff deficit issue, the issue of education staff deficits, can be kind of stimulated by units of local self-government that will thus attract qualified workers. And this is not only the situation that is happening in the Republic of Croatia and that is to happen in the Republic of Croatia, but we also have in the Republic of Germany a situation that certain specialists who work in hospitals due to lack of family doctors go into smaller environments that stimulate the arrival of such qualified people. Local authorities, they are closest to citizens, they can best recognise their needs and in order for this synergy to work, this synergy between national and local levels requires mutual exchange of information. The problem of demographic development of the Republic of Croatia has so far been several times the subject of the adoption of relevant strategic documents under different names, so we had 1996. The national demographic development programme, followed by the National Family Policy 2003, the National Population Policy 2006 and, in fact, the national population policy of 2006 created certain obligations for units of local and regional self-government to implement certain measures based on the programme of implementing measures under their jurisdiction. Therefore, national strategies are adopted at national level, and then, at a lower level, on the principle of subsidiarity, certain action plans are developed. Population policy funds are provided mainly in the budgets of local self-government units, the longest measure of population policy in the City of Zagreb is monetary aid for the equipment of the newborn child. It's 10 years old. The city of Zagreb cost about 850 million kuna. On the other hand, the City of Zagreb introduced a measure of the parents of the educator, and at this point it amounts to about 300 million kuna per year. If we look at the situation, in fact, that we are on the one hand able to work women with that parent measure of a full-time teacher, we are now asking the question of how effective it is, so if we look at the Europe 2020 strategic document in order to reconcile the family and work role, and I think that this role, or that parent status, should be supported, but in a way that enables women who want to do so to be in their family to raise their children but the other half of their working time so that they can achieve their professional career. I have already mentioned the question of parents who use leave for children with developmental difficulties, and you also see the role of the local community and the city of Zagreb as regards, therefore, certain social rights, certain health rights certainly imposes certain above-standards, and here the issue of the funds of the city of Zagreb is also co-financed certain specific programmes of early and pre-school education and education, which unfortunately, we do not have such a situation in other units of local self-government. So here I would like to point out the question of Poliklinika Suvag, the Center for Education and Education Goljak, the Center for Autism. One of the priority measures to stop demographic decline and encourage positive demographic movements is to raise economic efficiency and in this context to look at the problem of low birth rate through policies that will better support families, especially better conditions for employed parents and those entering the labour market. Many European strategic documents stress the need to continue activities that promote reconciliation of work and family life. Work and family are a very important area that illuminates the degree of equality between women and men in society. In doing so, children's rights must be guaranteed and have an advantage over equal rights for women and men. The strategy also seeks to adopt a spectrum of measures in the domain of time policy, so the issue of working hours structure, the question of adapting what has already been said today in this debate, which is also what counterpart Peric said, means increasing the number of Jaslic groups, more flexible and shortened working hours, the organisation of working hours, but there is also important and support for employers in the use of maternity and parental leave, paternity leave and leave for care of sick children. So what we are not talking about today, and it is not in the interest of interest, so we are talking about maternity and parental support, it is also, so it falls under these demographic measures, the issue of obligation to care for other family members, in particular, about the elderly and there is also a unit of local self-government that can give some synergy effect with what is on one hand recommended from the national level. So we have in the Constitution a provision so that in particular we advocate the protection of motherhood, children, and youth. It used to be through the National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, today it is through the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, but whatever it is called, I think it is very important that there is this clear commitment of the state, that it gives its contribution to empowering the role of the family within the community, among other things, and strengthening the material standard and I will re-emphasise it, so 750 new, 750 million kuna definitely contributes to a better situation, and any measure, so this improvement of maternity and parental benefits, it will not be possible to see it over a year of two, but it takes some long-term period, and I believe that this is a good predictor for the adoption of a whole new Law on maternity and maternity support that should take place next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187832	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187833	Thank you very much. I'm a friend of my cellmates. You talked about this law and possible demographic measures that are needed to return the population, especially these 2/3 of Croatia, where there is an empty space. But today, we have absolutely nothing of these measures, except measures like this, which I support, but they are more in the sense of pre-election folklore. We currently have areas, for example. The Chetinian end or your down, the Neretva area where we don't have a pediatrician. So who's gonna live where we don't have a pediatrician, where we don't have a doctor? It's about 50,000 people in my area. The rest is on one pediatrician. Where we don't have the opportunity to mean the basics of our own, parents who want to stay, let alone something more serious. In Croatia, the problem is destroying the system we had, targeted destruction. And let alone the survival of people who deal with agriculture in your area and in other areas is almost impossible, and that is solely the system again guilty because import lobbys are more important than our farmers. That's how survival takes a lot more to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187834	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187835	Dear counterpart Bulj therefore all modern countries have demographic problems and, as I said in the debate, it is not only a problem in the Republic of Croatia but, unfortunately, it is also a problem in Western European countries. This is just one of the incentive measures and of course it's not enough. It is a certain incentive if we have a situation that a child or parent will get 1660 kuna more, then we definitely should commend it. I agree with you, therefore, the problem of small environments, rural environments, so the situation that the growing and larger population of a particular country goes to large cities, creates certain difficulties in the availability of equal services and, of course, that we have paradoxical situations, let's say, at 500 m in Zagreb we have 4 microbiological laboratories, and in the Cetina region or in the Neretva valley over the weekend we have a problematic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187836	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187837	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cell, you've noticed very well. Well, half the EU members have a demographic problem. Among other things, you listed this very well on one example here in Croatia, which is for example doctors and nurses. You've seen well, that if we don't take certain steps now, that as time goes on, the situation becomes more difficult. You also noticed that this is not a question that can be resolved in a slow way, that should include national level, county, local and local, and among other things, the local level decides whether the playground and where it is, and each parent likes to take a look from the apartment and see where his child is. The municipalities and cities decide on kindergartens and kindergarten subsidies, the county of schools, in this very way, so it is possible to resolve this issue in synergy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187838	The following replicas of the respected MP Maksimchuk, and excuse me, the answer, the response of the respected representative, Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187839	Well, you noticed as a person coming from Varazdin County, so here as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and an electoral unit, you are very much in favour of raising the standard of living, that the quality of life of persons in the Varazdin County is better. National strategies, legal frameworks give space to units of local self-government, each in their own specific way, to find the modality that the population decided to live in the space of the Varazdin County would have a better quality of life, with a better standard of service. This problem of migration, this problem of going to developed countries that have a better standard of living, we will unfortunately never have a standard of living as some Scandinavian countries, but that's why we have some other advantages and that can be incorporated, and that can be one, one anchor for the people who live there, to stay here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187840	Thank you. Now she's going to be a respected representative of Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187841	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you spoke about the attitude of state and local levels, of course, that the participation of local and regional self-government units is very important, because they know best local opportunities, the measures that cities and municipalities offer to attract, as you yourself said, and highly educated personnel, and then, of course, their staying, and starting a family in those areas. I have to mention a good example in the impoverished Slavonia, which is an example of my City, where according to Eurostat's report, the largest percentage of the young population with even 38% has the City of Slavonski Brod, but there are certain measures that the City offers to ensure that young people stay in our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187842	The answer of the respected representative, Cjelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187843	Well, respected colleagues, therefore, have already spoken today about the fact that we, who are here, are also representatives of citizens and citizens of this country, are in charge of in some way having a positive impact on the creation of a certain social climate, that by creating favourable legal frameworks, we also have an impact on social security. I say this is just one of the measures, so the incentive measures of financial nature can help, but they will not be crucial, but it is a question, therefore, of the overall involvement of society, and so also of the local communities in creating better frameworks. I'll mention, here's my colleague Bulj used to say, so the question of the valley of Neretva, there's still an average of three and more children, and I don't think that the situation given by the local community is that in partnership with some other local communities that have a better standard, and they have much worse indicators of demographic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187844	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187845	Thank you very much. Comrade Celić, you pointed out in your presentation one measure that we have in Zagreb for... the mother or wife of the raiser, but for the parent of the breeder, it can also be used by a man if they decide in the family, on the other hand, the question is whether these 350 million, and this is likely to spread even in view of the applications that go to that extent, whether it justifies that amount of funds, essentially, that measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we see, you have now said yourself in the debate, that the third child in Zagreb is even below average than what is where there are no such measures, so unfortunately we have one non-constitutional approach, and eventually over the chest is decided in hundreds of millions of kunas. So you should see how really demographically help the City of Zagreb, how to help conditions that are unfortunately not good in many preschool and school institutions, and not in the hall to bring measures that sometimes do not result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187846	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Cjelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187847	I agree with you fellow Maras, so this is about big, big money from the City of Zagreb budget. What is the recommendation, therefore, of European guidelines, is to ensure a good and flexible approach to child care, i.e. to reconcile this family and work role. So, first of all, care should be taken about young families, about family members of parents entering the labour market, and about providing better conditions for employed parents. I don't think it's in line with some modern guidelines, that a woman who's college-educated, that she doesn't work anywhere, that she can't achieve her career, but exactly ensuring that half of her working time is in her family if she wants to, and that she gets better conditions so that she has a more flexible approach. And it should definitely reevaluate the status of parent educators in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187848	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187849	Dear counterpart Celic, you were just in the line of your colleague Martinchev said that here I pointed out that this law is one big nothing, and I will repeat it again, and again I will argue that one great nothing, although here, although this aid of 1.600,00 kuna per month, six or eight months, will be useful to someone, the results will still be defeated. So, the results regardless of this measure, so financially, will still be as they are today, which is a demographic disaster, a natural decline and an emigration. I shall dare say that our state of Croatia, or the government of the Republic of Croatia in this term, has not made a single key measure of even predisposition for any future government to create a demographic catharsis, here if you do not agree with me, which it has done as a predisposition for demographic recovery, specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187850	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187851	So without any false modesty, the situation itself is that Croatia as one of the EU member states has imposed the subject of demographics and for the next period of funding is one major contribution from Croatia to address this issue. So, any assurance of any incentive measures of financial nature that if viewed individually is not enough, however, if we look at it as a contribution that will help in the quality of family empowerment that will be able to provide some better services with better material resources, then we can look at the contribution there. If we look at the figures that are now we can talk about demographic disaster, but that is one catharsis that Europe is going through that is experiencing a crisis of Christian civilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187852	And the last replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187853	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you've talked a lot about the diversity of local self-government and their different options. I would say that this law, like all laws, prescribe certain rights or obligations for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As long as the decisions of the city or municipality are laid down by law or obligation only for citizens in the area of that city or municipality. Let us not forget that in the area of the City of Zagreb we have a 18% cut, my town of Vodice has a 6% cut, and we have cities like Prelog or St. Sunday where we don't have a cut at all. If the citizens of a city or municipalities want more, they must be aware that they may have to separate more on some other basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187854	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187855	I agree with you, the definitely variable cut is a very important variable when we're talking about certain standards. The city of Zagreb can often be praised with certain overstandards, and therefore it is within the town hall sessions there is a regular consensus regardless of which political option the representatives and representatives of the city assembly belong, the issue of protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the issue of social protection, the issue of certain preventive checks that the City of Zagreb gives to its citizens and citizens, which unfortunately other units of local self-government, is something that the City of Zagreb can praise. Of course it costs and, of course, it's also partly the result of a high cut of 18% that certain local self-government units don't have and that's an important source of funding that contributes to these better services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187856	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, at the beginning of the presentation, I'm going to express one disdain, which is the only point of life, and I would say from the substance of the importance that we have this whole week on the agenda. So, today, the two laws that the opposition gave half a year or a year ago, I'm not saying they're not important, tomorrow climate change from the 40th and Friday's chemicals. And that's from the assembly. It's from what the government is sending us here, it's from what the government of the Republic of Croatia is doing and we're protesting and we're saying it's not right that everything is subordinated to the HDZ elections and that it's the only topic that Andrej Plenkovic and his government are dealing with at this point, but let's now move on to this law and hopefully we'll be able to finally get some laws from the Government to the Croatian Parliament to try to solve the accumulated problems of our fellow citizens. When we look specifically at this law and maternity and parental support we cannot be or cannot be against them because when they increase rights and allow citizens to spend the first part of a child's life with it more easily, I think it is absolutely necessary to support this and that it would be good to go into full demerition and that people who have salaries and more than 5,600 kunas have the possibility of having another 6 months or a year to receive their salary or compensation completely and to show it to the other side or to set some limit that would be much more than these 5,600 kunas. It was also one of the pre-election promises and announcements of the HDZ, and I am sorry that this has failed here in 4 years, but I can tell them that one of the certain assumptions and our programme for the next parliamentary elections will be decommissioning compensation because we think it is fair and that it is a quality demographic measure that needs to be applied. What I can say is that only fees do not have a crucial impact on demographics, I can show you from 100 examples how much our people don't have the support of once-in-a-country and local self-government units, we've talked about Zagreb a little while before and that there's a huge amount of money being allocated to parents and that practically more than 100 million kuna per year, almost 400 will believe it will be in 2020 for this measure, without ultimately seeing a significant demographic step, but on the other hand, parents who have one or two children in the City of Zagreb don't have a quality preschool and school I would say preschool or school standard for their children in the education system. In the past few days we have seen an amazing example that in the 21st century we have to worry about the basic hygiene needs of our children in kindergartens and schools, which is unfortunately so in the City of Zagreb. And no matter how hard the mayor tried, no matter how hard his principals tried to say it wasn't the case, parents and children who were in kindergartens and schools would deny them. On the other hand, the question is, how are we going to help parents with one or two children or three of course the same children, who, if we don't have quality kindergartens and quality schools, are going to help them? How can we help our parents if we do not have the possibility of having a child as far as kindergarten is concerned? How are we going to help parents if their parents don't have, no, not one or two shifts but they don't have a full-time stay, they don't have a full-time stay at 6 months when they finish school, and they don't work, they don't have the possibility, they don't have grandparents to help them, to watch their children and rarely thousands and thousands of our fellow citizens, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia 15.6. when they finish school and 20.6. they simply don't know how to watch their children, and they can't leave a child of 7 years old. to stay home only. And then when we talk about hundreds of millions of kunas that we've spent on, to a variety of measures that haven't produced any results, when we're talking about taking care of demographics, then these examples really come on, to the top of the agenda. So how can we talk about helping parents, creating an environment where people will be stimulated to have children and in some ways not have to think about whether or not their child will leave, whether their child will have an adequate hygiene background, or whether the material of a hygienic dal will have in kindergartens and schools, how will we talk about demographics, how will we talk about, that we will have positive demographic trends tomorrow? Of course, all of this is also connected to employees, with jobs which unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia are not as attractive as in some countries in the nearby area, and then people leave either if they have no job or do the same jobs for double the salary as it is in the Republic of Croatia. The best demographic measure we can give our fellow citizens is a fair pay for honest work and that you can live honestly from that salary. Something said by this fellow Bull about the differences between certain parts of our country. So somewhere you don't have the most basic health standards for, for children, for parents. Here, my colleague Glasovac tells me that over the night in Zadar, 13000 women are left without a gynecologist, that there are no pediatricians in the Dalmatian Zagora. So, what are we talking about? Well, I mean people and getting this support won't mean anything to them because they don't have the basic conditions to have children, to raise their children, and eventually to say that we can stay here, it's nice here, we have everything we need here. It may be nice for them if they really are beautiful, but all they need is unfortunately, they don't. They do not have everything they need in Zagreb, let alone in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. It is bizarre that the mayor of the City of Zagreb and dangerous colleagues, that the mayor of the City of Zagreb invites children, since there is no soap in schools to use ash, lug and says that, that he did it as a kid and that he felt, as he would say, healthier and, and younger and, and, in a way, that it was useful for him to grow up. As far as I'm concerned, he may continue to use the lug and do whatever he wants with him, but our children in the City of Zagreb, but also in the entire Republic of Croatia have the right to have the most basic needs so that they can safely attend school and gain certain knowledge, not to think about whether or not they will wash their hands or not because there is no hot water in the school, and out there is winter, whether or not they will wipe their hands and will, unfortunately, wipe out children's hands in the whole day's room who must safely perform hygiene in the toilets during the day, that's all people should not be worried at all, and unfortunately, they are concerned and trafficked into the subject, too, this epidemic of this virus that has appeared, that finally these most common things, most basic things, we are trying to solve. Now, these days, here today and yesterday call me, call me people and say it's amazing that after this storm on Monday and Tuesday and reactions, and the reaction of the dangerous Mayor Bandic and his advice that finally in, in the city institutions, they've started to make sure that they've suddenly received certain hygiene supplies, but the question is how long it will take and the question is that enough money has been allocated in the city budget to make it, to finance it. Because I don't blame the principals here, and at least the teachers, the breeders, because they're not guilty if the city cut them in half a few years ago for hygienic supplies, it's impossible to meet that. And that's why I support this, but we're far from, from creating any demographic policy that will contribute to the birth of more children in our country, and fewer people are dying and unfortunately we'll end up relying on how many people are going to settle in the Republic of Croatia. And unfortunately, our people are still leaving. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187858	Thank you. We will now conclude on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the word will be taken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187859	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters so how much does this government care about demographics best testify that this is the first one, let's say under quotes the demographic law that the government has given to the Croatian Parliament over the past 3.5 years. I don't remember that there was anything else, a more important demographic measure, a financial measure that the government had placed. There isn't. So, first thing, and as far as this government is concerned about demographics, the most beautiful indicator is that the Secretary of State for Demography Marin Strmota, two years ago, told the Minister then Murganic, the Prime Minister and everyone, this is a play, this is folklore, there are no real measures here to help young Croatian families. Right? And then there was a precedent that was forgotten, and I'd be happy to mention it from this pay phone that we'd remember a little bit of Marina Strmote man, an expert, a demographic from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, and I'd like to stress that at one point he left one of the easy positions of the secretary of state and said this is folklore. He didn't even plan it, it was seen by him that he was stuttering and that he was upset visibly, etc., but he told the truth. This is folklore. Here's the last time I read the data this time I won't. I'll say it from my head. We lose what rags a year, which ends in demographic terms of 12-13,000 inhabitants per year, and that number has not been reduced, has not been reduced at all. Fertility rates or number of live births per mother are at an unimaginably small level 1.6-1.7 in order for the population to stop at zero should be 2.4. And then if I say that this law is one big nothing then I really mean it because this law won't bring us what we need. Croatia had 4,784,000 inhabitants, today there are 4 million, uh, wrongly speaking, it had 2011. 4.27,000 inhabitants, and today there are below 4 million inhabitants, below 4 million inhabitants. And here we're talking about demographics, and we're not talking about natural movement yet, and we're not talking about the mechanical movement of the population. What about the 100,000 Croats and Croats who went trumpeting for bread anywhere, mostly in Western Europe. So cataclysm, disaster. And that main chapter of the election programme, Andrej Plenkovic, came down to one big nothing. We don't even have a strategy for Croatia's demographic recovery, we didn't bring it, during the government of Andrej Plenkovic we didn't bring a strategy for demographic recovery, we did, but we go for it, so here and there, what measure, this is not a bad measure, it's implemented, but nobody's saying we're disappearing. Speaking of which, I don't know who mentioned it more in what context of the EU and how Croatia forced it to discuss demographics in the EU context, but Germany cares about it. Angela Merkel and the crew don't care, they don't care, they don't care, they don't care. Why aren't they interested? Because they'll always make up for their demographic minus as soon as they're immigration, who, Croats? So the demographic story is not interesting to them because they make up for their demographic hole to Croats, Slovaks, Ukrainians, tomorrow to the Macedonians. So, from demographics and D, from demographic recovery and O, and the only way for Croatia to recover demographically, which is what the Government of Andrej Plenkovic doesn't understand, which Andrej Plenkovic doesn't understand, we need, with much more courageous financial measures, what we need, so we need a catharsis of society. We should really go back to the values that have made it possible for us all these centuries to survive. In the 21st century, no country or nation that has fallen this low means in their understanding of life and their relationship with the state and the people will escape unless they experience catharsis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187860	Thank you very much. The next final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187861	Thank you very much. When we talk about demographics, then we have to tell the distinguished secretaries, colleagues and colleagues that in Croatia 2/3 are empty. And when we talk about demographics then we have to say that the most powerful areas that gave the most human potential is the area I will take an example of where I come from Krka to Neretva, the Dalmatian Zagora, the hinterland, Herzegovina and this part towards Zagreb, that was the most potent part that filled Zagreb and other parts of Europe. And a little someone not to draw some kind of origin from those parts. What happened? It happened that at this point Croatia demographically in these areas is extinct. We don't have any residents, we don't hear children crying in maternity homes, but we hear parents, grandparents crying at bus stations escorting our children. And so it would be enough to say, so what happens in the Republic of Croatia. Is it enough to come before the elections and pass this law as one measure of maternity this increase in the other part means using what you are proposing for the last 6 months to increase this amount. But if you were doing this proposal then you would say this, gentlemen, so it's not much here 400 million kunas we will single out so that our mothers or fathers who use maternity leave have the full amount of wages they have or have all year long those who don't, means these, there, for the whole year that period, or that grandparents have the opportunity to protect children and receive maternity benefits, or help mothers who go to work with this amount of 2.500,00 kuna or something less. So some measure, but gentlemen, you're boasting about the curricula reform, people don't have, kids don't have credit to write, they don't have a sponge board, children drop a ceiling on their heads in the Brnazas, a big settlement before Sinj, between Sinj and Trilj, five thousand inhabitants, that's something less, four thousand people. We didn't do basic things for our children. A key demographic measure is a key job, if someone deals with agriculture, then, in this area, it was mostly agriculture, then a key measure is to encourage these people to stay in the area. No livestock, no agriculture, only import lobbys do their jobs, and we import harmful, harmful food, both by health and by our economy. These measures we bring talk about that today in the Republic of Croatia 1/3 of the municipalities and towns, local self-government do not have the ability to organize for a child's kindergarten, we have more of a county where money goes, decentralised funds, and not descending towards those edges, but we have these divisions, but America and China together. Well, we can't take it. Well, I went to the Knin hospital a few days ago, I was down on the stands, so if you can see what it is, you can't find people, doctors who will specialize, who will pay for it, and you end up dying, so you're making fun of yourself, I mean this is mockery, don't, so you can go with me, go from Sinj to Vrlica, towards Knin, and you'll see those areas, according to 'our Grace, and you'll see from Sinj to Kamenski behind Trilj, so you'll see those areas where there used to be a lot of people, it was worth laughing, children's wages, from playing, from cattle, from, there's nothing, empty space, Croatia currently has 2/3... space from Krka to Neretva empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're not aware of it, and if we can't allow down people to work and survive, and have normal conditions, and allow them to have free kindergartens, and free schooling, and allow them to deal with agriculture, believe me, this, this area will be extinct, and who knows who's going to move it. Who knows what's gonna happen. These measures that you're giving are by the way measures, before the electoral measure, because you haven't made a demographic strategy,... These parts, and this is an exclusive mockery of these people's common sense, 6% of GDP comes from those that this government's policy has evicted, this trading SDSS, HNS and HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Get in the car and visit those parts, you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187862	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Ivica Bosnjak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187863	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Here I thank you for the debate and contribution in today's proposal for a final amendment to the laws on maternity and parental support. I will point out once again that the fundamental intensity of this law is the protection of motherhood, the coordination of family and business life, and the care of a newborn child. The intensity of these changes is just going in, to further and significant improvement of the most significant categories of employees and self-employed parents, mothers, and also to encourage greater equality of women on the labour market, greater representation. I would point out that the representation of women on the labour market in Croatia in 2016 was 56%, today it is about 61%, which is still around 11% below the representation of men on the labour market. So there is and we believe that these other changes and significant, this difference between women and men's representation in the labour market will be further reduced, and that the right of fathers to use parental leave, which is already allowed by the current Law, I would point out that our solution under the Law on maternity and parental, is fully consistent with the part of the Family and Business Life Directive which speaks of four non-transportable months per parent, four non-portable months for parental leave... each parent, with two unsustainable months, so we have here with the Directive fully in line already today, which will say that in this part we are above the European average. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to comment on some of the thesis that has been raised here on the existing proposals or issues that have been further raised. We have foreseen these changes to the employees and self-employed parents as the most significant category, and precisely for these reasons that I have stated, the categories of all others were covered by the amendments to the law in mid-2017, but that question that was also focused on parents with severe developmental disturbances, and whether the compensation was appropriate, larger or not, of course we believe it could be bigger and should be greater. We, I will remind you, have increased all categories and we have increased these since 01.07.2017, and we certainly intend to improve this by a new whole law further when the directive itself is implemented. It was pointed out that the leaders of the local authorities were left to themselves through their own measures, we are, again I will point out, so we strongly point out the synergy effect of state measures and local measures, there is a so-called Charter of Local Self-Government based on two basic principles, these are the principle of subsidiarity and solidarity. The government also showed its solidarity with the new Law on the financing of units of local regional self-government in 2018, which significantly improved the capacity of fiscal all, especially the less developed municipalities and cities, and through the Fund of Fiscal Alignment, it is very easy to see through the reports of the financial units how much they have significantly strengthened and, of course, directed one part into demographic policy in their fields, where we truly believe that extremely significant steps have been made in 2.g. The allowance for children who were also mentioned even though not in the context of this law was also changed in mid- 2018. and of course he included in that part a potential number of users, but he did not, we never talked about a real number, but about a potential number of applications submitted. Therefore, the requirement for an allowance for children is triggered by the launch of the application and in this part is certain that one reason for a smaller number than the one we have projected is the reason and that I fully respect all, the increase in personal income, the increase, so all other receipts that have entered the income category per household member. The question, therefore, of young people how they will succeed in living and building the future in the Republic of Croatia and newer, new amendments to the Income Tax Act, which for youth categories up to 25-30. Unleashing income tax is a strong contribution and a step forward and precisely commitment and this government to give young people in particular an additional incentive to stay, I would say and return, and I say through changes to the laws that have provided for a reduced period of necessary insurance training from 12 to 9 months, this is an additional incentive, primarily aimed at young people. It is mentioned that we have employed 20 people in HZZO for the purposes of the Law on Extra charge for children, so we have not hired 20 people, nor has it been settled in HZZO, but in HZMO, so neither of them is, it is not true. The law in which proposals were made to give grandparents the right to use maternity or parental support. I pointed out that this is the fundamental right of parents, foster parents, or the person whose decision the child is entrusted to, so it can be both grandparents in the event of a minor pregnancy. So, we said that the Directive on the harmonisation of family and business life adopted in June last year and the implementation deadline is until August 2022, the urgency is that, since no Member State has yet adopted it, but that we do so, therefore, with full changes or by the adoption of a completely new law because these provisions include flexible working time, fatherly leave, distance work, custody rights, etc.. So it is much wider than this right fundamental to parental leave which I repeat, the Croatian Law on maternity and parental support fully complies in that part with the directive itself. It is pointed out that there is not much change in this law, we believe that it is changing because the statement of fiscal impact at the level, I repeat, and one and the other categories is at 200, 200, over 200 million kunas this year, or around 260 million kunas in, at the level, all year round, so that ultimately represents one significant and fiscal effect and a significant improvement in the material position of parents. There have been questions about foreigners, whether foreigners can use the right, so foreigners can use if they have a residence or a permanent stay registered in the Republic and if they are health insurance, so that if the part has not already been transferred to another parent can be met if these conditions are met. The EU example pointed out that 18 Member States have seen an increase in population, however an increase in population has been reported primarily due to migration. He's in Europe in '18. Some 3 million and 225 thousand people have emigrated, but at the same time out of 15 Member States have had a negative natural increase, so here in the debate, Germany, which has no demographic interests to address this issue in the European perspective that the Republic of Croatia has indeed opened. On the contrary, Germany will organise a demographic, first demographic conference after the Republic of Germany, and will also organise during its chairmanship, which will follow the issue. And maybe he's doing a better reminder, Germany than 50 years ago. Since '72. There is a continuing natural decline in the population, so this is partly compensated on the basis of migration, but ageing population is as intense as in most Member States, so here is a purely more complete information. The existence of pre-school education in municipalities, the less developed municipalities they have or do not have, here we have mentioned these 500 kindergartens that are being built and dominant is precisely in these less developed areas, so I will say that in the National Reform Programme we, the government has predicted that help ensure the regular functioning of pre-school education will be made one measure and these days contracts with 76 municipalities in which one co-financing of work is given precisely for, for, for, to work kindergartens, so that we believe that just through the European perspective and use of funds with a demographic sign it will be far more significant and far more intensive in order to ensure that young people stay and return to, in these areas and of course, to create a perspective of life and work. The study was mentioned by our ministry about the availability of preschool education, the quality that was placed in the drawer, we have really launched a kindergarten project based on this study where the Republic of Croatia is still today as important as we are in 3.g. made, and I will remind you that the founders of kindergartens have been units of local self-government since the beginning of 2000. and that this was the first, first government to approach from a central level of 1.5 billion kuna in kindergartens, which therefore increased capacity, increased capacity, extended work over the past two years, so that in this part of the study, it was not placed in a drawer as highlighted in the debate, but was, in fact, made by just the basis of it significant steps and shifts. And now here is the final hope, obviously there is no hope, and I think that there are also all these measures that we are doing, and this Law is not even a demographic milestone, but it is one significant contribution to the step forward, to creating exactly the perspective of choice and better conditions for parents, for mothers, fathers and how I can better reconcile my family and private life, and I repeat we have results in increasing the share of women on the labour market from 2016 until today, we believe that we will further encourage these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187864	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, the secretary of state just talked a little bit about sectoral competitions, so I'd like to answer to Mr. Bulj and Mr. Zekanovic how much this government cares about demographics, demographics. From the point of view of Mr. Bulj and Mr. Zekanovic, it is zero, but I who come from the rural environment, who know that I personally intervened with Prime Minister Plenkovic several times while we were looking for these sectoral competitions and who I know that hundreds of kindergartens are now being built from this sectoral competition, because we couldn't come, go to normal competitions, and I know that just a dozen kindergartens in Varazdin County are now being built out of this sectoral competition, and I know how many kindergartens mean to women, mothers who can leave their children in kindergarten and come to work, then this government has done something for demographic restoration, and also these women will then be able to reach their fellow men by making progress at work tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187866	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am interested in whether and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to share other six months' fees, it means to be at 100% salary, as promised in the HDZ pre-election programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187868	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187869	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So here, we show these other changes, we've doubled, more than doubled the amount of compensation from the then 2,663.00 kuna, which shows that if we've already done it twice in three years to go in this direction and we really want to do it in the next step, and the strategy of demographic revitalization, today there's talk about it, and I should point out that it is indeed in its final and that one of the measures, these 100 measures, is exactly, going in that direction. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187870	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187871	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's how you ended up Mr. Secretary of State with a speech you said there's always hope, here I agree, there's always hope, and we need to work on keeping young people here, to have children. Do you know what is the most significant incentive measure for young families? Work. When two young people have jobs, they'll certainly have children, but two reasons why they don't have a job. First, the job can have, but bad receipts, okay, we need to make a framework to make better receipts, to have a good salary so they'll have kids, and the second is work for a certain time. Unfortunately, very many of our young people work for a certain amount of time, three months, three months, three months, and forever. That's the way it is with privates, but unfortunately, we have state institutions that do that. And that's where you have to, in fact, take matters into your own hands and not allow state institutions to allow work for a certain time, a few years at a time. These are the right incentive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187872	Thank you. The next line is a respected representative of Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187873	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that you said that we are actually giving special attention to the coordination of family and business life regarding these 500 kindergartens that are being built or those being restored, which is certainly a precedent in our history as you said, but perhaps it should be said that 836 workers are employed so that 76 kindergartens actually have two-way work. And I don't think I've heard wrong, you said that 76 units of local administrations and self-government will sign contracts during this year to make it possible to work in those kindergartens, I assume they're units of local self-government that have weaker or worse fiscal capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187874	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187875	Dear Representative, thank you, yes, you understand, with 76 municipalities, I stress the Municipality from less developed areas that have started working or will start working this year, for the start of preschool education will be signed, not this year, but these days contracts about it, and here we are in this, to say the stage, to show that rural areas have a perspective, have a future, of course the availability of kindergartens in their municipality is one of the basic preconditions for a young family to stay or return at all, and live, with the creation of course and a working perspective, so that this will be very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187876	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. and finally we are going to declare amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z. No. 815, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Stjepan Curaj, I would like to ask the motioner's representative to show up on the amendment submitted, one of them. And I'm sorry, there's two of them. State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Ivica Bosnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187878	The amendment is not accepted. The increase in existing rights and compensation should be the result of detailed analysis and ex ante impact assessment and appropriate budgetary resources must be provided for the implementation of those rights. In order to implement the proposed amendments, additional resources should be provided which are not secured in the national budget for 2020, 2021 and 2022 at the positions of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. In the event that the level of work compensation during parental leave of 70% of the budget base is increased to 100%, as proposed by the amendment, the same could lead to inequality in relation to individual categories of parents' leave. In certain specific cases, this could lead to parents using part-time work for a double period of time making more total compensation than parents who would use parental leave without working with half the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187879	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187880	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will withdraw this amendment aware of your explanation, even accept it. It was also the idea of previous amendments to point out the ability to work with full compensation for another six months. until halftime. It's basically what we have right now just to get a little closer to the good citizens, that after maternity leave, the first six months. If you're going to work, you can work half the time and extend that part as much as you can use. In theory, you can do it, so another 6 months. If you work part-time and receive part-time compensation, you can do no more than six months. but 12 or for the part of the period you used the first part. My proposal that I could not refer to this amendment to the law because it does not refer to articles that change, so only he could ić as an amendment to the government is that we allow everyone to use the first 6 months. a total of 6 months. that they get full pay and that they can work part-time. That's the difference. I accept that for this part it was not, that it must be harmonised because someone can now work part-time but not receive full compensation but only part of it in the extent that he used it for the first six months. So times 2. So if you were just two months old. On maternity leave, the other four worked part-time, another six months. You can do eight months. use it. Now, that's existing, maybe people don't even know it, but the idea here was that those who get a full fee anyway, that they could go to work part-time, that they would raise that salary and they weren't professionally lagging behind. Of course in terms of this whole crisis and recommending people's work from home, that might be even better now, but hopefully in the next changes we'll take that, so that compromise to make everyone happy, I'm withdrawing this amendment once more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187881	So the amendment has been withdrawn. We're going to the second amendment of Honorable Representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187882	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment concerns the adjustment of the transitional and final provisions of the final draft law and is accepted for reasons of not accepting Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187883	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187884	Yeah, absolutely. So, the same thing, I'm withdrawing my amendment and I hope that in the next series of changes, we'll put this part in order to really be mothers, first of all, to be able to work on the work hours of another 6 months. and primate full compensation, professionally do not lag behind and, of course, have a financial effect that no one thinks that for some financial or professional reason, they don't base a family and that it's a hindrance. It's that demographic measure we wanted to go with. I thank you again and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187885	Thank you very much, so that amendment has been withdrawn, and that's what we're done with making a statement about the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187886	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z. Number 815. Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Agent Stephen Curaj. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. During the statement, the MP withdrew the proposed amendments, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that we have unanimously 125 votes to pass the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187887	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted my proposal to amend the drug-restraint Act with the aim of removing marijuana from the list of intoxicating drugs and actually allowing its production for at least personal use. And in fact, this assembly, or this state, is facing a challenge. On the one hand, there is a policy of criminalisation or penalization whatever they call it, on the other hand there is a policy of legalisation. We can see for example the countries that legalized the Indian hemp as it affected it. It affected the fact that prisons, at least as far as these delicacies are concerned, are more empty, courts are relieved, even the state has made certain tax revenues on Indian hemp. While on the other hand, those countries that do not want to legalise hemp are countries where consumers are persecuted, harassed, prosecuted, etc. What hurts me the most as a advocate of the legalization of hemp is not the fact that HDZ refuses to legalize it, but it hurts me that SDP is pretending to want to legalize it and now they're representing themselves as some team, like with good intentions, like we're going to do now, here we are for legalization. However, when the SDP was in power on two occasions, it could legalise but it did not, they did not want to legalise. I often meet young people who have received a fine of £5,000 for a type of 1 gram, 2.3 grams. And they tell me like I don't know SDP great, the SDP wants to legalize it. I'm asking, do you know who introduced those criminal penalties for consummation, money? They say who, so I say the same SDP that's now pretending to want to legalize the hemp. And why does it matter? Well, it's important because this system is all based on lies and they think that if they repeat a lie indefinitely that people will eventually accept a lie. But I have to tell the young people that the SDP wanted to legalize the hemp would already legalize it, but he didn't want to, and when others called and protested that the SDP was silent. Now, what's the SDP doing? Now that they're in opposition, now they're saying we're going to legalize it, and they know that HDZ is going to reject that bill, but they're calling everybody in a public debate, let's discuss it together, let's each other as if we agree on what kind of law they're going to look like, and they know that this law won't pass. However, let me point to the speed that the SDP is changing its attitudes, and I will give you an example. Zoran Milanovic speaks the day before the election I am for the Croatian Army to return from Afghanistan, but a few days after the election the same Zoran Milanovic says he signed himself with Plenkovic all agreed that the army is being sent. What's the matter? I told people that both Milanovic and Colinda serve globalists, serve those people who feel everywhere and nowhere at home, you know who these people are, many in history have fought against them, many failed. Some have succeeded in part, but what I want to tell you is next. If people had convinced me they weren't the same Milanovic and Colinda, they weren't the same. They say Milanovic is for the army to return from Afghanistan, I said look if it's great, but I doubt he's honest in that and a few days after that, they already report Milanovic changed his mind. I want to tell all of you who want to legalize drugs, intoxicating, marijuana, those terrible drugs that scare you, I want to tell you that me and you know that it's neither dangerous nor intoxicating drugs and that the SDP that pretends to be legalized won't legalize it. That's what I have to tell you. I must warn you of their lies before the time, before it happens. And how do I know that? So I repeat the SDP's smartest suggestions, the best suggestions always keep during the opposition. So when they were in power, all these laws they proposed in the parliamentary procedure, so why didn't they put them in the parliamentary procedure when they could, when they could decide, when they could make them. Why didn't they? Well, they're not because they didn't want to, and now they're in opposition acting like they want to. Likewise, when HDZ is in power, they adopt illogical and strange laws, but when they are in opposition, they will be filled with smart proposals. I'm sure they'll have suggestions like a phone book for a better Croatia. However, I say as soon as they get out of the opposition to power, everything changes immediately, immediately forgets what they said I would dare say on election night. And what am I supposed to say in the end? So what I'm saying is that a lot of people who, a lot of people who grow hemp in countries where it's legalized, make good money, have a good life. Unfortunately, in Croatia, they are being persecuted and not only persecuted but we are importing Indian hemp from other countries, the most I have heard from Albania is that we import. My wish is to replace imports with domestic production, and we can't do it to a greater extent if hemp is not legalized by Indian. As long as the Indian hemp is illegal we will have to import it, the dealers and foreign producers will earn it, the domestic honest farmers will not be able to make their own lives. But why is it still important? Well, it's important because a lot of young people move especially from these regions where hemp could grow, for example. Slavonia is emptying out, and it could be hemps out there who in the story and people are getting smaller and smaller. And if you want to stop the escape of young people, so how are you going to stop it with potatoes, cows, wheat and these other cultures, no way. It's just that people who have been into pig farming have failed the same thing with these milkmen and warlords, etc. And even those who produce fruit also fail, unfortunately men, because the system is turned against them, and it is turned because the interest system is turned against them by my people. The interest system is beating us all up. And hemp is a lifesaving plant, hemp is a plant that could change a lot in domestic agriculture, but unfortunately I am aware that HDZ will reject this proposal, that HDZ will be against the legalisation of hemp and I know that SDP will hypocritically support it but as soon as the SDP is part of the parliamentary majority, you will see at what speed SDP will refuse legalisation. There, that's for now from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187888	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187889	Thank you, Your Honor. So I'm sorry that here's colleague Pernar took advantage of the larger until his presentation of something he didn't even explain to the law but was talking about the SDP and HDZ that they were against this law. It is well known that the SDP while running this country with its laws has come a step closer to what we have today, in part, a law that partially allows the use of hemp. We're going to take a safe step further, today when we're again running this country, are you going to be part of that parliamentary majority, I hope we don't have enough to be on our own, but here we already have a bill on exploiting the full potential of hemp, which is a little better called than you say, legalizing drugs. So don't talk about what we're going to do or won't do, but you're talking about that law you've proposed here, and you haven't said a single word about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187890	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187891	Mr. Prelec, a lie can be repeated indefinitely and until Judgment Day, but the truth is still true, the lie is still a lie and what I'm saying is that the only part I agree with you in your speech is when you said that what we have today is the result of your policy. And that's, I agree with that. The condition we currently have with hemp because the result of SDP's policy and therefore people who are sick cannot grow hemp but can only buy in large-money pharmacies, can't even get it for free. So, being fined with 5,000 kuna for 2 grams of marijuana, says Mr. Prelec, you can thank the SDP. So if you want to be able to grow Indian hemp on your own, don't vote for SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187892	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187893	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, you can propose your solutions here, your laws, but you can't give assessments of who, what, will, will in this way. I don't know if you've seen that we have a law that deals in public debate, maybe you should look at our club's pages and give some of your suggestions. So we certainly wouldn't suggest something and not support something that we don't think would be a good solution. So here on this side try to refrain at least from these assessments, for those who can't show at this point by most that they want to change something, but in half a year you'll be able to testify yourself that some of the things we're saying here will start to change in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187894	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187895	Dear Representative Maras, the SDP was in power, and I am aware of that, you are aware of that, you had the Prime Minister, the Parliament and the State. Could you legalize the Indian hemp? You could have, but you didn't. Hey, and now that you've lost power, when those same voters turn their backs on you now you say you guys are coming back from the dead, now we're gonna legalize it. So what have you been doing all this time? For four years you've been in power, people have been begging you to legalize it, it's all falling on deaf ears, and now that you've lost power over your politics, now you're cynically calling on all these people like you're giving us your suggestions. So what now? People give you suggestions, and what you're going to do with those suggestions when you know HDZ has most of it in the assembly, you can take it all to the trash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187896	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, I think that you should consider, you should actually sue the SDP for intellectual property because this legislative proposal they propose only increased from 6 to 9 hemp stems, so perhaps since you have already submitted this to 10 years ago, and no social democratically serious party that participates in the government in Western Europe is proposing such a law as it is now proposed and what the SDP of Croatia has proposed in the debate, but I say here they are, in fact, trying to trick you into raising you from 6 to 9 stems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187898	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187899	You know what I'm gonna tell you, honestly. I don't mind them stealing other people's ideas if they're stealing good ideas. I don't have a problem with them raising from six to nine stems, but I'm glad, but what hurts and burns in my heart is knowing that the moment they come to power they won't give a single stem, let alone nine. They can tell people now that they're going to give 99 stems, but I know it's a lie. How do I know? We're going back again, ab this to the beginning, when they couldn't, and now that I can't, they're even wider hands than I am. So I'm now wondering what happened, is it possible that they became bigger advocates of legalizing hemp than I am, or is this simply a political spin to, with the aim of their political survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187900	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Željko Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187901	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse submitted to the President by Mr Ivan Pernar, acting on 11 July 2019. The text of the draft law is identical to the text of the draft law of the promoters of the Living Wall Club and of the SNAGA on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already delivered an opinion on HS on 7 December 2017. and on 21 March 2019. in which it stated that it considered those proposals to be unacceptable and did not support its adoption. In relation to the proposal proposed by the Proposer proposing amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse, the Government of the Republic of Croatia indicates that on 17 April 2019 it is a Member of the Republic of Croatia. in People’s Newspaper No. 39/19 published by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, followed by which the proposal of the Proposer is incompatible. It is noted that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse is in the same National Journal, which entered into force on 25 April 2019, defined industrial hemp as a hemp variety with a total tetrahydrocanabinol content of 0.2% or smaller and whose varieties are on the common EU variety list and which is not included in the list of drugs or psychotropic substances and plants from which drugs can be obtained, thus allowing the use of the entire hemp plant with a low THC content for different branches of industry. It is also prescribed to grant authorisation for the cultivation and manufacture of hemp for medical purposes only to legal persons who have a manufacturing authorisation of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for the manufacture of the medicinal product or of the active substance in accordance with the provisions of the Medicinal Products Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187902	Thank you very much. We have... You can always, just let's just finish up the replica of the respected representative Maras... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187903	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187904	...but when I open the debate, of course. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187905	Mr. Secretary of State, the basic question that in all these proposals and legal solutions is asked what the state is doing and how the state prevents one monster, which is consumption, drug consumption. So I have a feeling that when we look at trends that are unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia that there are more and more different drugs on the market, they are more unfortunately available to people, they are cheaper than they were before and I don't see the excessive activity of the state or I feel that this problem in the Republic is getting bigger and bigger. And on the other hand, here's what I'm interested in is easy to refuse, it's easy to talk, but how to fight with, with that, with that freak, and how to answer these problems? Unfortunately, I have a feeling our country isn't doing it too well. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187906	I am opening the debate, but at the beginning of the debate, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187907	I'd like to say that the government's policy of repression doesn't lead anywhere. Nobody benefits from it, not our country, not our citizens, not our legal system. This is simply a crazy story that actually serves to harass people and instead of the military and police, or better said police guarding the state border, it deals with marijuana consumption. At the same time, heroin dealers are walking freely in our streets. So, it needs to be completely separated, in my court, the Indian hemp market from the heroin market because without it we'll still have a situation where the same person deals both heroin and marijuana because both drugs are banned under quotes. So my goal is to separate these two markets by this law, to make the hemp market legal, to make the hemp as any other, so that everyone can produce it and finally spread the entire system. But I see the government doesn't want it, I see that HDZ has been saying since the time of that Ivan Penic that HDZ is against every drug and repeats that mantra. But I ask ladies and gentlemen, if HDZ is against every drug, how come, especially heavy drugs, how come Zdravko Mamić supports them, is that weird to anyone? Did I, I don't know, did you notice that a large number of people from that world show business just backs you up, and you're against heavy drugs? I find that unusual. Ask yourself why they support you. And on the other hand, young people don't support you with this restrictive policy. Of course, you will probably argue that the behaviour of Zdravko Mamić has nothing to do with heavy drugs, perhaps not, perhaps Zdravko Mamić is not on cocaine, let's start from assuming that it's not when it comes to his own, but ask yourself that by any chance he set fire to a few plants of Indian hemps a man would not, would not be in a cramp, would not yell at the presses, would not attack, insult, etc., but that drug that relaxes people, under the quotes of drugs, which people feel more joyful, drugs actually, under quotes again drugs, from which people look at other people in other, other eyes, in other light, that drug that encourages peace, which makes the man sees well, there under quotes drugs, and these other drugs, dangerous drugs, they do not sanction enough. For you there's no difference if someone has 5 kilos of marijuana or 5 kilos of heroin, it's the same for you, it's not the same for me. I don't know why that is, and I wonder why that is, and I wonder how long it'll be like that. And ultimately, this whole policy of yours leads the country to ruin and the people to disappear. You're not a team at all, you're not interested in that at all. Instead of looking for solutions to keep young people in the Republic of Croatia, you actually have solutions to get them out of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187908	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to representatives' clubs, the first one will be HDZ in the name of the respected representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187909	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the control of drug abuse, submitted by fellow MP Ivan Pernar. If Justin Trudeau can do it, why can't Ivan Pernar propose a law like this. It's good to discuss this topic that's very important. 1% of people according to the European report on drugs aged 8 to 18 to 35. It consumes marijuana daily or almost daily in the EU. This legislative proposal consists of 3 parts, the first part is related to industrial production and to amendments to the Law on the control of drug abuse, which entered into force on 25 April 2019. A large part of what counterpart Pernar has proposed is contained and is in the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. What is not found is therefore not possible because there is a unique UN Convention on Intoxicating Drugs of 1961 and the UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 which binds all countries that have signed these conventions to certain obligations, and according to them, marijuana containing more than 0.2% of tetrahydrocanabin is a psychotropic substance and is found in the list of banned psychotropic substances. As regards the use for medical purposes, a significant part of what is proposed by this legislative proposal is also implemented in these amendments and additions to the law. What I would like, therefore, to point out here, when we talk about medical indications that exist and in the Republic of Croatia, so the Committee for the Use of Hemp for Medical Use of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia in 2015 prescribed and made recommendations for certain medical indications that mitigate symptoms, therefore which do not affect the course or progression of the disease, but only relieve the symptoms, they are listed exactly there in these situations in these nosological entities can be used. It is important, therefore, that these medical indications are not determined by the individual but by the profession, so you may not have any disease and think that you are helped by a certain substance, or by marijuana and apply it, but they are not official indications, so there are randomized clinical trials worth all medicines and so on for this therapeutic aspect of hemp. Therefore, according to the amendments to the Law on drug abuse, only a legal person can grow and produce hemp for medical purposes, not a natural person, so that is, of course, the question of potential abuses which then reopen a large space for abuse. The third part, which is the most controversial, is therefore the application of hemp for recreational purposes, and we as the HDZ Club cannot support it, so the Republic of Croatia has accepted so-called "H." A Portuguese model which primarily seeks to punish dealers, not consumers of particularly young people, and in that sense, the Republic of Croatia, with its amendments to the Penal Code, has decriminalized. Of course, young people especially need to be educated, referred to certain psychosocial measures to teach them, and pointed to the harmfulness of an addictive pattern of behavior. There is still penalization, and I think it is necessary to remain penalizing because I repeat, it is psychoactive substances that have a serious impact on human behavior by consumption. My colleague Pernar talked about certain situations after marijuana consumption, so like any psychotropic substance, it causes certain reactions. Alcohol has similarity to marijuana. So in some people alcohol consumption will cause sedation, after a glass of wine will sleep, it can also happen in a certain group of people who consume marijuana, a certain group of people will be happy, sing, hug people, and drink and marijuana. In some people, alcohol and marijuana will cause aggression, and they will become aggressive toward others. But what alcohol will not cause is the creation of psychotic symptoms, so to speak. Paranoid disorders, of course, will not be in all people, in fact, according to the National Institute for Drug Abuse research, only 10% of people who consume some psychoactive substance will become addictive, so not every person, so it is important to inform and educate young people in particular. Sweden, which is very liberal, has said, therefore, we have enough money and we invest them in preventive programs, but we are not so rich that we can legalize another drug besides alcohol and tobacco. So both alcohol and tobacco have undetectable adverse consequences, not just for health. To talk about economic interests that could produce marijuana production, which would later be used for recreational purposes, can only be one who advocates certain private interests, so, as there is a tobacco industry, means "big five", 5 large industries that produce tobacco products, so strong and cannabis industry. The moment Trudeau legalized marijuana in October 2018, 37% of the shares of a company that produced marijuana were purchased by the owner of Marlbor. So this is about great, great interests, as there is, I stress, both in the tobacco and in the alcohol industry there are great interests, but much, much greater damage to the consumption of psychoactive substances and the production of psychoactive substances. So we now see restrictive models that advocate the most developed countries, from the United States, Western European countries in terms of alcohol and tobacco, and at this point we can only assume, speculate, which could happen with the full legalization of hemp for recreational purposes. When we talk about an argument to curb the black market by legalizing marijuana, it's also the thesis that absolutely doesn't stand because the situation in Canada, a senior police official from Canada said that at this point there are two marijuana warehouses of 4 tons, medical marijuana that can't be sold for one simple reason. So the black market can provide a more quality product at a better price and they will always be more competitive than what is legal. I note that 2/3 of all crimes related to illegal drugs in the world are related to marijuana. So, industrial hemp, yes, medical hemp, absolutely yes, along with the medical indications that determines the profession, and the consumption of marijuana for recreational purposes, as populist as it sounds and may be attractive for a particular population, including reason, cannot possibly and for this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187910	Thank you very much. Before we continue to welcome the students and students of the classical high school from Zagreb. Otherwise, my former high school. [[Applause.]] Comrade Pernar, you're on behalf of the promoter, will you? On behalf of the Proposer? Here, you have to say in which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187911	Well, I'd like to say that Mr. Cellic speaks as an argument against the legalization of hemp next thought. He says marijuana, or its consumption, can cause psychosis, and says alcohol consumption cannot cause psychosis. You heard him, as I heard him. However, if you go to Google and write alcoholic psychosis, there are articles as many as you want, I'll read it to you. Acute and rare cases of subangular alcohol psychosis that develops after years of alcoholic training show a tendency to occur in repeated events. The first episode is usually shown 5 to 15 years after the start of severe alcohol abuse. And now he says, it's characteristic that delirium vermin usually occurs after interruption or significant reduction in alcohol consumption. It's usually the third day, sometimes before, rarely later. And now he says it like this, he says it like this. The essential characteristic of this psychosis, the delicate mutilation of consciousness followed by the tremor of extremity and the whole body, arises optical illusions and hallucinations, most often frightening character. Common are zoopsies, the patient sees snakes, lizards, bugs and similar tiny animals. He often has tactile hallucinations, and he feels these animals bite him or crawl under his skin. Scared of these hallucinations, the patient defends himself and becomes psychotically upset. Itd., etc. What am I trying to tell you? A man is lost in time and space as a result of alcohol abuse, and if you ask people what people in Croatia are dying of, I believe that young people will agree that they don't know anyone who died because they consume Indian hemp, but if you ask people if they know someone who died because they consumed alcohol, that he died in traffic, killed someone in traffic, or God forbid, got liver cirrhosis, etc., there are those you want, and there's no debate there. So if you're going under some kind of scheme like that, marijuana is a dangerous plant, and alcohol is not dangerous, then why are you hypocritical? Ban alcohol. Alcohol is the people's enemy no. 1. How many women only got beat up for that unfortunate alcohol, but that's not being discussed because you're okay with alcohol. Drinking alcohol is normal. When you see people who drink beer every day, it's all right for you. We have a country with hundreds of thousands of alcoholics, but that problem can't be seen, instead of that problem, the problem is one that has 2 grams of marijuana, he's the problem, we're gonna process him, we're gonna chase him, we're gonna punish him, we're gonna punish him, we're gonna punish him, and so on. I think it's one missed approach. I personally think hemp should be legalized. I explained why earlier, I said that young people could do agriculture. What we're importing now, we could produce ourselves, reduce imports, and ultimately, tourism would flourish. People from different countries are interested in this plant, they could come to Croatia and tourism, we could have tourism all year, not just seasonal. We today, we have no problem with tourism in the sense that it is not good to live on tourism, the problem is that we can't live on tourism because we have to live on all year long, we can't live on and pay bills for just 2 months, which means either 3 or 4 or 5, which means that when season workers finish their work they still have to do something, they have nothing to live on, and consequently they can't get a loan because they don't have a permanent job, of course they don't, because tourism is our seasonal character. Why wouldn't he be a permanent character? And I invite you gentlemen from HDZ to show your manhood and courage, to say Croatia will pioneer globally, we will legalize the hemp and we will have, we will have people dear to our country. And this policy of prohibition, restrictiveness, ended only with full courts and unfortunate people being harassed for essentially miserable amounts of drugs. And I say at the same time those dangerous, heavy drugs they easily find their way to their destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187912	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first is a respected representative of Cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187913	My dear colleague, Pernar, I saw you jumped right away when the classmates of classical high school entered and you immediately picked up the bat. So, alcoholic psychosis exists and I've been working with addicts for 20 years, but after years of alcohol consumption, it's an important item of what you've read. So when you've been eating alcohol for 10 years then it destroys your weeds of the big brain and then it becomes Korsakov's psychosis, but you can become psychotic after one consumption of marijuana. Every 5 people who suffer from schizophrenia have to do with the consumption of marijuana up to 5 times. That's the facts. So, you can, you have the right to be a populist, you have the right to say what someone wants to hear, it's your right, for that you're a representative, citizens have chosen you, it's my choice to speak facts, and I'll agree with you at this point the biggest problem regarding addiction is alcohol, but you would immediately come up with an even bigger problem if you legalized marijuana. It would be by the side of alcohol and tobacco. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187914	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187915	Dear Representative Celic, don't mind me but I will quote you, you said: "We have 300,000 alcoholics, the most risky area of northern Croatia" and you here point out that alcohol is a problem, that alcoholism is a problem, you work with alcoholics and you still don't see the need to deal with that alcohol, but you are still haunted by this green hemp, sativa, as already. Why are you still fighting hemp instead of alcohol or why alcohol is ok for legal use, consumption because there are countries where alcohol is banned, dear Mr. Cellic, because you know what are the harmful influences of alcohol, as there are countries where hemp is legalized, but you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187916	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187917	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, in your debate, if I understand correctly, you called your colleague a cell for hypocrisy, because like alcohol, he's fine, and he's not. I don't know if you're aware of the information, if you know the information that in America the most alcohol problem is at any time during prohibition when alcohol was banned. So it's not a ban, and it's never a restriction to solve the problem, we have to solve the problem differently, and that's why I asked the secretary of state here, unfortunately there's no answer to how it's being put to the problem of the state, where there's an office with the government, if there's anything new going on, etc., unfortunately there's no concrete steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187918	Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187919	Dear colleague Maras, you say that, for example, American prohibitions, we come to the conclusion that prohibition is not an alcohol solution. And I agree with you, but at the same time that you're saying that prohibition is not a solution SDP has passed a hemp law that has been engineered, penalties are for the possession of Indian hemp, even patients can't grow for themselves. You say you decriminalized, and what that translate means. In translation it means, if you have 2 grams on you you'll get 5,000 kuna fine, that's your decriminalization, if you don't pay it to go on top, interest, cost of FINE, etc. You just pushed her out of the penitentiary, and it's best if she stayed in the penitentiary so people don't know for two years, three, five, ten in prison for two grams. Of course you had to decriminalize under pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187920	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187921	Thank you very much. Hypothetically, you mentioned this well according to my colleague Pernar, according to his attitude towards alcohol and in comparison and hemp is visible at every step. So football games we see as the main sponsor. Adverts are with alcohol and they are mostly foreign because domestic boilers, roasting brandy or something similar is prohibited in Croatia, is it dangerous for Croatia if in Slavonia, in my Dalmatian Zagora, these vines or plums are roasted, it is dangerous. So it's important foreign products, foreign beer advertises it's important and of course there's hypocrisy to the pain because alcohol is a huge problem, and we sport events that kids watch, the main sponsors are, the main sponsors are the producers of alcohol, and the domestic producers are estranged, one boiler little ten liters of brandy to bake to sell to the market it's a crime, it's going to go to jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187922	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187923	I'll never forget an anecdote with a man who sold me peach vineyards. He says I'm probably 200-300 kilos of those peaches, I didn't know what to do with them and I went to turn them into brandy and he said I put them in the Advertiser to sell brandy. A man came to him like he was gonna buy a liter of two, and he brought him a liter of two, and he asked him, and, hey, like you got that, he said, "I've got that in the basement yet," so I said, "I'll take me away more." And just after this one took him, this one took his badge out of customs, this one, that one, the sea, paid $30.00 a fine by the unfortunate. He says why, he says because I wanted to live off my work. That's how you treat the working people, and thieves, thieves, they order peacefully and without fear in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187924	The next replicas of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187925	Comrade Pernar, what was already mentioned, that at the time of Prohibition not only was there the most alcoholism in America but there were also gangs, and then people died because the alcohol that spread to that black market was extremely poor quality. And the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia there are people, if we are going to now take Indian hemp for recreational purposes, surely we need to make it possible to grow Indian hemp for medical or personal purposes. Because people who suffer from mononucleosis, people who need medicines in this form that can't even be bought through this law available medical hemps or preparations to ease the pains of the preparations and look for everything else on the black market. In this way, we would allow them to control the state more, and they would allow these people not to pay dearly what they need to make life easier. Let this be, this third step, the state has so far made two and ready, and I think it's ready for this proposal of yours for a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187926	Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187927	And, ma'am. The voter, I agree with you absolutely, everything you say, you literally took the words out of my mouth. However, the question arises why when you were in office, when you could do all this that you're saying now why didn't you do it then? I remember when I was, uh, working in the hospital all the time as an intern, so I was drinking some woman in the hospital ward, and I could help her, and she was supposed to bring that cough or something, and she told me, "John, tell me if you were while it was thundering?" When you were supposed to be able to help, you weren't there, and so were you from the SDP, Mark said it was too late in Kosovo, now that you're without authority, you're offering legalization, and while you were able, while you were potent in power and position, you didn't do it. Then all this stuff you've been explaining to me, that's when you weren't interested in those arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187928	Dear Representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187929	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Pernar, the SDP stands for a modern Republic of Croatia. This modern Republic of the 21st century is different today than it was 10 or 20 years ago. And some things that were 20 years ago. Maybe if they did, they'd be unacceptable. So, the fact that things change, that when we led this country that we took a step closer than in this present situation or the future of our law that we have in the proposal, it's the law of exploiting the full potential of hemp, but we couldn't have done it before 20 years ago. And don't keep saying that we didn't do anything. We've taken a step closer to helping people for medical purposes, they can use hemp to heal, and nobody's smart enough to say no, but don't even banalize things that bring up today's debate about whether alcohol or drugs are better, or alcohol, or drugs are not good for youth, But controlling it all together, that's what we have to do. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187930	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187931	Dear Representative Prelec, you say about hemp as if it were 20 years ago. It was too early to legalize hemp. Oh, yeah? Well, do you know that Mr. Prevec is 50 years ago? Was it a hemp-legal plant or is it, are you aware of that? It means what happened 50 years ago. It was legal, and it was all those centuries ago as old as the world is, now there are discussions, some believe in that theory that we came from these ape-like creatures, some not, but we know that until 50 years ago. The hemp was legal. And you now claim that 20 years ago. She couldn't get legalized. You're Mr. Prelec in grave error, you don't know history. At one time, 50,000 hectares in the former Yugoslavia were right under the hemp plantations. I don't know if you're up to it, and it's not really about any new modern plant, it's about an ancient plant as old as this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187932	Thank you. The individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187933	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. This is a topic that should not be discussed in black, black and white, and in some way offer only its truth and its vision, it is necessary to discuss and see what are the harmful or beneficial consequences of a single, individual legal proposal. But what my colleague Pernar was saying at the outset is that on the one hand we have major harmful influences and alcohol and smoking and we don't see too much government activity in that direction. Unfortunately, what my colleague Pernar said every day is that we see accidents under alcoholic condition, and on that side, the question really arises whether in the future some things are different to regulate, or whether the harmful influence of marijuana or Indian hemp is uniform to the influence of, say, alcohol, whether it is smaller or smaller. So it's, it's very difficult to assess from this position and fact, and the fact that some more developed countries are going in this direction certainly lay that basis for, for thinking that the Republic of Croatia should in this sense be set up. When we see that Canada was going in the direction of legalisation, when we see that in the United States 10 or 11 countries have legalized marijuana, or there is such a trend, talking about the EU, the Netherlands has always been the country that had the most liberal laws on this matter, so it's not, now it's not any special newspaper or any topic that should now cause a puzzling representative here, or specifically, and a colleague who may be dealing with this on a daily basis, but when we look at the path we've been taking, some things aren't done overnight and these steps that we've made, colleague Pernar and in decriminalisation and in use for medical purposes in 2014 are steps to take away tabu of the topic that perhaps years in Croatia. And that is one direction that Croatia is following, but that does not mean that in the end, we do not need to follow the situation around it and see what would be the best solution for us. So from your position, i.e. the proposer of this law, I understand your interest, but I don't understand why you're negative towards those who liberalized things, who took off the Stigm from people who took off the criminal persecution of people for the minimal possession of marijuana that was present in the Republic and it was really a paradox, that people ended up in prison for some amount of possession, we remember, the gentleman who was sick and who was supposed to be sick of the multiple sclerosis that he used, marijuana for treatment, to make it easier for him, to sort of ease his problems on a daily basis, and eventually to go to prison duty, so the president of the Republic went with pardon. These are things that were illogical in Croatia, the SDP was always the leader there to understand the problems that are happening and to offer solutions. We've offered some solutions in this sense, we'll offer them still and trust us, we won't change things. So if we decide something, if we're behind something, we'll be behind it in six months, so, either a year or five years. Of course, if the circumstances change, I'm not talking about this particular case right now, we're ready and we're willing to revise our position, but never in this way that you said, that you were when it came to thunder, when you couldn't, some things couldn't be done at once, and at some point you just needed some time, and the social climate and certain circumstances that were changing, they had to change in order to eventually come to an optimal solution. So on this side, this topic should be discussed and the SDP's Club of Representatives also opened the topic and in some ways called on all interested citizens to get involved, let's see to find the most optimal solution for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187934	Thank you very much. The next individual debate, and I'm sorry, we have, we have one replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187935	Dear colleague Maras, I agree with you that there is no topic to be discussed, so also the question of legalization of marijuana, especially if we consider that Canada, Uruguay, an individual federal state in the United States which is otherwise a country of great contrast, so you now have in Colorado a situation where the consumption of marijuana for recreational purposes, on the other hand, come to the state of Texas, catch you a joint, end up in prison. So you need to be very careful and familiar with legislation that is very diverse, the Lisbon-based European Drugs Monitoring Agency has issued a publication on regulation, legislation in Europe and there we see that in fact no European country has the same law for this matter, so we definitely need to discuss this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187936	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187937	Thank you, but the fact is that the proposal, now colleagues of Pernar, would not be the first in the EU to have such legislation. So we're not talking about some things that are unknown and that don't exist in developed democratic societies. So both the Netherlands and some others, the question is whether or not, and how many there are with the possibility of this proposal, which is what counterpart Pernar said to grow within the house, but the fact is that at one point and at EU level, it will probably need to take a common position and sort of regulate this area because I think that the trends are such that eventually, this will come about. Now we will see how all this will develop together and how Croatia will exist in this way. We are prone to a liberal approach, we are inclined to do things within the framework of the law, not on the black market, which unfortunately still dominates Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187938	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's another thing I'm going to say about national strategies. Col. Maras, therefore, no country in the EU has such a legal proposal as proposed by counterpart Pernar or what counterpart Holy suggests. So there's legalized consumption of marijuana in coffee shops in the Netherlands, in Spain in social clubs, but, outside, if you're in a public place in Spain eating marijuana, you're subject to a violation. Now the question is how repressive the police are, how understanding they are, but what I want to stress. So every national strategy for curbing addiction has two fundamental pillars. It's a reduction in supply and a reduction in demand. The moment you legalize certain illegal drugs, you crash by two pillars and when we talk about legalizing marijuana for recreational purposes, I'm asking here why can't we legalize cocaine for recreational purposes? Why can't we legalize speed, ecstasy? You have a situation in Australia, for example, one movement that advocates legalising stimuli because they think it's better to legally buy a certain stimulant, a certain ecstasy tablet, so that they know what the concentration of MDM is inside than to buy on the black market unchecked and can have inconspicuous and fatal consequences. So it's a question of someone who then carries with him a question of personal rights, a question of personal freedom and a question of personal responsibility. So there's no reason if you're trying to legalize marijuana for recreational purposes not to allow them to legalize cocaine for recreational purposes. Why is it some manager who's 40 years old? You wouldn't take some cocaine for fun if you could already take some marijuana? So, we come up with a total absurdity ignoring the fact that tetrahydrocanabinol is a psychoactive substance, that marijuana is in a situation 10-15 g. She had 3-4% THC, now she has 15-20%, which is a higher THC concentration, which is a greater problem with the potential consequences of mental health, and it's not just a matter of psychosis. A colleague of Pernar says that young people would be engaged in agriculture if they allowed the legalisation of marijuana for recreational purposes. Young people who consume marijuana every day after a certain time after 3-4. They develop amotivation syndrome, they don't have the will to live at all, they don't care about school, they don't care about work, so these are the problems that slowly sneak up. To use the argument if we are already alcohol and tobacco, why don't we ban alcohol and tobacco, so I always stress, the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia is alcohol, it has the biggest consequences. But talking about no traffic accidents related to marijuana consumption, that's incorrect. So, already in the federal states of the United States of Canada, the diagnostics of the apparatus are developing as there is an alcostasteer, so they are looking for a model and determining how much THC concentration would be illegal for those who operate the motor vehicle. So there are very, very many problems that have already been mentioned in some way now and the moment it would be widely used, if it were legalized, only then could we see what kind of problems this could cause. 1961. It was put this one for a reason on the list of banned psychotropic substances. So it was said, using cocaine, using opiates, so in the '50s last century opiates were used, for example, to treat depression, and then when it was seen how much this addictive potential of opiates is, they were removed from therapeutic use by looking at what are the benefits and what are the risks. To talk today about marijuana treating cancer, it's completely unargumented. So, the relief of certain symptoms, the relief of severe intense pain in terminal cases of malignancies, absolutely that, but talking about, the plant belongs, about the miraculous elixir of marijuana, we can talk about that too. But it's just like giving a man who has serious problems, let's say with tension, anxiety, insomnia, you're giving him meth tea, and you have a tool that will give him a lot of, a lot of help, or you can treat some severe depressed patient who has suicidal thoughts with lady's grass, you can, and you can have certain, therapeutic effects in some minor cases. Why can't people, therefore, exist in some countries, say in Israel if you have a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis then you can plant several plants for personal use, but there is now a concentration issue again, so that person who plantes the hemp himself is what the concentration of THC is in that plant, under which conditions it is, so there must be strict control conditions that you know exactly how much THC you have, how much CBD, which is the ratio, so you need high standard conditions that are normally used when you are determined during clinical trials to indicate the use of a particular product, is it? So, you need to look at everything and take it all into account. The biggest opponents of legalization are members of a repressive apparatus, not only in the Republic of Croatia, but everywhere in the world. And I'll repeat, so at this point in two places, four tons of medical marijuana is in Canada and it can't be sold because the black market offers a cheaper and more quality product.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187940	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187941	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Cell, you've elaborated it beautifully in your speech. So the waist should say everything, not every single person who thinks he knows something. Offer and demand in the Republic of Croatia as much as we follow that from 10 to 50% of some drugs have already been increased in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this country needs to be looked after, protected by our youth, our children. All these stories that are pointless when it comes to the need to eat before 50 years ago. And today is a whole different structure, and a proof of what all the drugs can do. Therefore, we here should have a repressive apparatus against drug dealers and drug imports. Therefore, I fully agree that we should protect our youth from this, and we must take special care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187942	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187943	Yeah, there's a lot of questions, a question of personal use, so you have a man with 15 kilos of marijuana and he says he has it for personal use. You can't reduce street dealers if you're looking for legalization so-called. easy drugs. So, you're completely numbing the police's blade if you legalize marijuana for recreational purposes, that's impossible. And why is the situation such that you have 100 meters from primary schools in the center of Zagreb the situation that a child can buy a joint for 10-15.00 kn wrapped. Why is that a situation? Partly because it creates a social climate about marijuana being a miracle medicine, that marijuana is nothing, that marijuana does not cause addiction. It's very addictive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187944	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187945	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Cellic, you surprise me a little by comparing heavy drugs and marijuana, and I see you're a good acquaintance of all that together and you say it's the same marijuana, in fact why not legalize both marijuana and cocaine? It's inconclusive, you have to agree. We know just how much on one case that the public is familiar with, that is, Mr Luksic, how much he helped with the treatment of severe illness, he was helped with marijuana oil, and that is why it is not good to compare it. I'm asking you not to do it for the public anymore. Furthermore, the only question is, will we in the Republic of Croatia be the first or last in Europe to regulate this market? I'm not about our kids walking around high and saying the same thing is marijuana and alcohol, but we live in a different time and some different knowledge we have and I think we should take care of it. And that's why I'm after marijuana anyway if it helps people. who are seriously ill. [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187946	... Cell, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187947	Dear colleague Prelec, with all due respect to you, so I'm 20. I work with addicts and I know exactly what I'm saying. Would you punish the manager, it's a real situation, it's 2020, would you punish the manager who spent cocaine with the company on Saturday? It's easy drugs for him. No easy drugs, heavy drugs. It's a division that's nowhere in professional circles. I work with heroin addicts, 95% heroin addicts, first marijuana drug, first marijuana drug. Why is that? Now we can do public analysis, debate, expert counselling. I'm telling you that this argument is that it's an easy drug, and oh, about medicinal aspects, so that's what someone has now taken cannabis oil and helped him, it's not a medical indication, it's just 4 medical indications exist and I absolutely support it, and that's why I fought to enable cultivation and production [[Intruder: Thank you]] for medical purposes. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187948	...is a respected representative of Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187949	Thank you. Mr. Cellic, it's similar to my argument. You said he was hemping for medical purposes, medical hemp for medical purposes, yes, which is understandable to me and I agree with. However, marijuana, I'm interested in marijuana or heroin. Your position as an expert, and teaching Mr. Pernar that we should legalise the use of marijuana on a regular basis, because it's an easy drug, and heroin is a heavy drug. I wonder what your attitude is about getting used to and getting addicted to one of the easy or heavy drugs, and then the psychotic states of one of the easy or heavy drugs, so is that even necessary and is it possible to distinguish it at all? You understand what I'm asking?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187950	Dear Representative Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187951	A colleague of Križanić, so we established a special department at the Psychiatric Hospital Vrapce in 2012 dealing with the treatment of people who have a problem with addiction and another mental disorder. One of the great reasons was that we had more and more young people who came to emergency receptions where the most severe mental symptoms, which were hallucinations and paranoia, were caused by marijuana consumption. So, from that point of view, marijuana can't possibly be an easy drug because it causes psychosis. Cocaine, heroin, are less dangerous in the short term than marijuana. They later have inconspicuous consequences for society, destroy the individual and society, but every substance, and so does marijuana when you consume it for 12 months in all the classification manuals, we can talk about addiction to marijuana. The addiction to marijuana exists, it's serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187952	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187953	Well, Mr. Cellic, you say that 95% of heroin consumption started with marijuana. Ha, but here I guarantee you that even a larger percentage of them may have started with a cigarette, it's also actually an easy drug that causes addiction and that causes 13,000 people to die annually. We can ask them if they all tried alcohol, all heroin addicts before they started busting in the veins? I'm guessing they tried alcohol. So, that thesis is that because someone tried marijuana, cigarettes or alcohol, so now it's because heroin is crazy because I know a bunch of people who consume marijuana, they still consume it, and none of them are on heroin. I think your method of conclusion is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187954	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187955	Dear colleague Pernar, I'm trying to have an argument. And during the club presentation, I said that only 10% of people who consume any drug will become addicted. When I talk about drugs, I mean socially acceptable drugs. Unfortunately, socially acceptable drugs and alcohol and tobacco. At this point, there are many harmful consequences, many difficult outcomes, sometimes deadlyly caused by alcohol and tobacco consumption. Which will be in Canada after 10 years. Once the marijuana is legalized, we'll see about that. But to talk about it, smoking marijuana for now, according to scientific articles, according to now available scientific data, smoking marijuana is at least as harmful as smoking tobacco. So the argument of that, so these are facts, the entry drug in 95% is marijuana, not only in the Republic of Croatia, but in the whole world. We can relativize it to this one. Or that way. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187956	I guess he raised his hand to a colleague of Pernar who wants to finish, right? Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187957	The Honorable chairman of cigarettes kills 6 million people worldwide annually, alcohol officially kills 3 million people, now ask yourself what it's like to live with an alcoholic, and in your words, Mr. Celic has 300,000 in Croatia what it's like to live a non-smoker with a smoker, the problem is, it bothers him, or you mix violence regarding alcohol, etc. However, it is constantly suggested that cigarettes and alcohol should not be banned, such as they are not so dangerous, and Indian hemp is as dangerous and should be banned. And then I questioned the next thought, I said let's look at the consequences of alcohol as many people kill you directly with alcoholism, which in car accidents, how many cigarettes per year, in Croatia 13,000 people kill. What's the danger of these legal drugs? In my court, it's big, and I think that, compared to cigarettes and alcohol, it's less harmful, less harmful marijuana. You'll say so that every five schizophrenics that his trigger was marijuana, every five. So let's figure out how many schizophrenics in the country are, and they blame it on marijuana. Put the numbers on paper, put the numbers on paper. And you'll come to what conclusion? So it's a negligible figure compared to 13,000 that only a year dies tobacco. Yes, yes, Mr. Cellic, 13,000 souls are leaving. In my family, a wider person died of lung cancer resulting from tobacco consumption. Yeah, yeah, but that's not what we're talking about, that's not what we're talking about in the media or anywhere. So you're a more dangerous person who has two grams of marijuana on him than the one who drives a cigarette picker. The person who drives a cigarette tow is irrelevant to you. And I'll say one more thought. Now this hysteria with the coronary virus. So ask yourself the following thought, the vast majority of the dead say in Italy between 63 and 95 years of age they had severe diseases in the background, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, which is the cause of respiratory diseases, which causes chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, why people have holes in their lungs, ha, we all know, smoking cigarettes. That's what kills the Croatian people, that's what kills us. And then and when he doesn't kill them all the way, it just leads them to their lives just being alive. I know a lady has COPDs literally fighting for air. Her life is walking with oxygen, walking with oxygen. And then what comes the crown of a disease from which a healthy man may not even know that he had it, but he who carries oxygen with him, the crown comes to him immediately and ends up on the respirator and dies. And she'll say he was killed by a crown. Oh, yeah? Did he really get killed by a crown or his lungs had been broken before, so the corona came like cream on a cake. But the crown scares us. So look how many years old people die from smoking in the world. Six million. You know how many of the flu died last season in '18-19. in America, people? 80,000, that's not panicking, the crown's coming, everyone's panicking. It seems to me that the crown is like marijuana, that simply this disease, or rather the substance, hemp, has been labelled deliberately to scare people with it, and for which reason it is not clear to me. But I can say one thing, sir, you said Cellic's next thought, this will probably go into history, you said that 95% of the marijuana consumption or that of all heroin users 95% were previously on marijuana. And you know what I'm going to tell you, I know a lot of cigarette smokers, tobaccos that started smoking right over the hemp because they mixed hemp with tobacco, mixing into nicotine, became chronic smokers, and eventually the cigarette killed them. Now the question is, is the hemp guilty? Ha, obviously tobacco is a dangerous devil. And now someone's gonna say I like a drink of wine or beer, a glass of beer, a glass of wine, okay, let's just assume that in the works of people who aren't alcoholics, alcohol doesn't cause problems. And I'll agree with you, but there's no one in whom a cigarette doesn't cause problems. Cigarettes are a great evil, a very great evil that kills only 13,000 people in Croatia every year, as well as those that don't kill their lives. Because if you get these cardiovascular diseases, if your veins block, they have to cut your leg, then you live without a leg, you live without a foot, yes, yes. It is the fate of many people today in Croatia, from smoking, from walking with oxygen, if they are alive but actually survive and not live. And I'm going to say one more thought, people can blame the state of the country for what they smoke, say. They're bitching about when HDZ's not in power like I'm gonna quit smoking, or the SDP's saying that they don't actually want to stop smoking. However, I must tell you when I was in occupied Palestine at a refugee camp in Palestine, I asked the Palestinians why they smoke. Their explanation was, we smoke because we're under Israeli occupation, that's why, but I said if that's the real reason why people smoke, then in Croatia where there are no Israeli occupations, people smoke. Now someone might say that... They rule the whole world, that they actually rule Croatia, so that may be the reason, but the Indians smoked tobacco before the arrival of Europeans, so before Zionism even stepped forward as a concept on their soil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what I'm saying is that there's no excuse for smoking, there's no excuse for smoking because smoking doesn't make life easier for anyone, smoking ultimately makes life harder for everyone and destroying them. And I want to say that the state doesn't spend enough time fighting tobacco, and even what surprised me most now is that there's a lung cancer campaign, like what I started coughing, like Miro Bulj, looking and laughing, he's a tough smoker, he's going to be killed by tobacco, I keep telling him, I keep telling him Miro throw cigarettes, Miro throws cigarettes, but Miro keeps them in his hand and sees them in it, I don't know what he sees. That devil will kill him, and says Miro of something must die, Miro of something must die, but when I spoke to a lady from Međimurje who was dying of lung cancer, I even recorded it with her, published it, today is not alive, recently died, a few weeks ago, I asked her, and what would you say to those who speak of something must die, and then she told me this thought, says Ivane as many years ago as a man is, she always wants to live. So that weight has to be died from something, it's true, but it's not life-like, it's not convincing, because God forbid you get my Miro from cigarettes, and you'd see if you'd speak greedy of something you must die or your hands and feet would try to survive. And if this speech of mine in this House, I know that... People here won't change, but if only one man's heart had changed, Mira Bulja, and if he had rejected the cigarettes, I'd be happy because he knew my words weren't in vain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And my only wish is that Miro Bulj and the rest of the smokers, and in the Parliament, and outside the Parliament, my warnings are not convinced until it's too late. Only when this HNS lady, is she a smoker, is she a smoker, and you smoke, and I will advise you to stop smoking, too, out of love, here I want you to live. Well, I remember when she got Mrs. One there, now she's in GLAS, she's having a heart attack or a stroke, which already, a stroke, so she ended up in the hospital as much as I remember and she's a smoker, right, well, I think she is. And a lot of people are smoking unconscious about what's waiting for them, and why not avoid all these problems, why don't they just make a decision today to throw cigarettes in the trash. And one thought I mean to tell you, the only people who profit from cigarettes are who?, so those who produce this tobacco and who trade it, all the others are losers, and smokers, and passive smokers, and their families, because staying without a father, without a grandfather, a grandmother, a mother, that's a nasty thing, but unfortunately you don't talk about it. And in those ads on HRT, people say hmm, I started coughing, and then I figured out, like, I went on a search, so I found out I had lung cancer. But they don't talk in that commercial where people are invited or propaganda, where people are invited to check their lungs, they don't say these people are, but before that, I've been smoking for 20-30-40 years, they don't say that, but suddenly they start coughing on their own. Why? It should point to the cause of the problem because if a man does not want to help himself, doctors will find it difficult to help him. Let's say we remember all Oliver Dragojevic, the famous singer, smoked for a long time, eventually ended up with lung cancer, and now what? Now, Doctor, Doctor, help me brother, but when you have such a smoking internship behind you, can the doctor help you? And I'll say one more thought. Mr. Bukarica told me that the other day I met him on the street, that his son was a radiologist and that he was taking pictures of his lungs, that his lungs were a disaster, says Bukarica, but I still smoke. I'm talking to you too, and I'm talking to you, and you can quit smoking. And I want Bukarica to have you here with us for a long time in the House, and you're standing behind us, and you're suffocating, and you're throwing whatever you need, whatever you think you need, not coughing, and then blaming the crown when something happens or so forth. So I want you people to be healthy, I want you to live a long life, I want your children and grandchildren to spend time with them, not to die young or relatively young people better said, that's my wish. And here people, darling, I want to tell you that there's nothing in my heart, there's nothing wrong with you, I just wish you good, just good. Here, there's no... And I want to tell you that who knows where we're going to be in five, ten, twenty years, but I'd love to, if we meet again, to make a reunion, like when they finish high school and meet in 20 years where they've been, God knows where any of us will be, but I'm sure those who are smokers among us, that it's less likely to be at that reunion, and that's why I'm appealing, Miro especially to you because he'd like to see you, but also to everyone else, that it's not too late, I still have time. [[Applause.]] Don't stop smoking when it's done, 'cause then it's over, he says now I'm gonna quit smoking, man. And it's like if it were a mirage, so you'd say now I know I shouldn't have taken a loan, now it's too late, now the story's over. That's what he'll say one day when he spends the bankruptcy of our country he'll say, and we didn't know it would lead to that. And I've been warning you all along where this story is going, my people, but they assure you that this system is sustainable, that cigarettes aren't dangerous, that credits are for your own good, as they don't give you Mr. Schucker credits to bury the state, enslave, dispose of the property, no, they want help both to you and us all, etc., so that's my minister's propaganda. So, brains in the head, don't believe propaganda, be brave and stand up to that global elite that earns by enslaved people with long and cigarettes and gambling. The cube is a big problem, the cube is a big problem that, yes, in our society. But we can't fight all evil once, yes, step by step, step by step. So how many people, families, are ruined because of the cube and the alcohol and the cigarettes, and when you add it all up, here's the cough and the bush, coughing up the Bucharest. Guys, what is this? The other day I asked if there was a little bit of us doing the crown, remember that, I was wondering if that's why the MP was gone, but as time went by, it seems to me that the crown wasn't the culprit, it was something else. Okay, maybe you wouldn't even say it's smoking, but certainly my people if you didn't rely on Jesus for eternity, life is just one, so my advice is to grab him and throw cigarettes in this life already. For when Jesus came back to celebrate, what you pray in the church in the first row when he says pop, says your coming gloriously await, eh one day when he appears he will not come to change our eternal destiny but seal it, he comes as a cream on cake, sugar at the end, and many think that in the last 5 minutes as a word, e Jesus now, there is no more in the last 5 minutes. It's the same thing with cigarettes, when the devil comes for himself, and then I'm gonna go to the doctors and throw a cigarette. My friend, it was supposed to be dumped before, now it's too late, the Germans say. And so, he says, "Bukarica," he says, "I've spoken enough." Well, if that's what you think, and I believe I said I end up with every good man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187958	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187959	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 668. The applicant is Agent Ivan Pernar, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law is not adopted by amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse. Who's in favor of that conclusion? Did you count it? Who's against it? 2. And who's restrained? Please score. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary bodies. 94 for, 29 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187960	Now we go to the next one, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. No 663 Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, the government delivered an opinion. Does the promoter, or agent Miro Bulj, want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187961	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the law I have proposed. amendments to the law that agricultural land cannot become owners or buy foreign legal and natural persons, I suggested for the reason that the moratorium comes out this year, seven-year-old in the 7th month, which is why we see that the government gave a negative opinion on this law. But what was it that offered me? When this law was under discussion, I was giving amendments at the time, and I was talking about the problems that are happening in the EU di hrvatska people are not equal, so in this case, neither on the matter of the national strategically significant this agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, because it is simply how they feel equal and equal within the EU if Hungary here is our neighbouring country, the Croatian legal and natural person cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary because it is the Hungarians who banned it by their law. At the time I gave amendments, however, were not accepted and the government gave this opinion and said that this law is contrary to the legislation, to the EU's legislative framework because we allegedly negotiated with the EU what we negotiated, but the Hungarians also negotiated, they are also an EU member older than us and they, if Hungarians can then we have the right to do this. Not law, but we have an obligation to protect agricultural land. As part of this law, which is very important, and I have otherwise proposed here a law banning GMOs and transport and trade and production. Unfortunately, most of them did not accept it, and many of those who are called from democracy to sovereigns, live, were unfortunately voted by 90 people against that amendment, and later on against that law because I believe that our people have the conditions and the ability to develop domestic organic production because only when we look at how much land we have in the Republic of Croatia, so we would have an uninhabited land somewhere around 784 agricultural ecologically preserved land 790,000 hectares of land with a state land somewhere around 380,000 hectares of agricultural land, I'm talking now in this case about agricultural land. And I think it's a huge potential and a resource that gives extra value, and we see now that there are some crises, as the coronaryvirus is now mentioned, where there is the possibility of closing borders and importing goods and food products, and I'm going to add, that it can bring in that we don't have enough food, and, unfortunately, since we're a tourist country, we're importing food products in quantities where I'm going to now here and I'm going to say statistical indicators, while we're lying under the weeds and here, a colleague Ivan Pernar just mentioned the tradition of hemp planting in the Republic, and he said the fact and the truth that 50,000 hectares in the former country were planted hemps and made a variety of other products, we had an additional value. Unfortunately, the only thing that matters is the weeds, it came with weeds, and that's the strategy of the Republic of Croatia towards farmers to eat import lobbies, while import lobbys that are bloodthirsty and vampires don't get stuck in a cake in the heart, the Republic won't go forward, neither will this people, but we'll do what Stephen Radic said, I'm sorry there aren't any HSS on this subject, what Stjepan Radic said we're shooting down like geese in the fog, we're giving agricultural land to foreigners, and we're giving theirs, is the politician, is the policy they run by their subjects. This is one of the major agricultural land of the strategic resources of the Republic of Croatia with drinking water, and MOST of Independent Lists also wanted to protect the waters from being in the Constitution as a guaranteed right of every citizen, basic human rights. We also had an IGP, a law that is also important for the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and the right to international law. We've had so many, it means important laws, even about telecommunications, but beyond that. I'd like to get about, a little bit about this law. When we see everything the EU says about agriculture, agriculture is much more than food production for it. For most farmers, it's a way of life. The role of farmers in the Republic of Croatia, including in the EU, is large and significant. As a European farmer, a Croatian farmer must produce food that has certain quality and healthy proper food, and if anyone has the opportunity to produce such food on the market, it is a Croatian farmer. For example, in Latvia, the income of farmers whose agricultural activity has tripled their basic activity is in Latvia. In Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, farmers' incomes also doubled, while in the Czech Republic and Slovakia they increased by 50%. Such a positive shift is the result of improving market conditions after EU enlargement, increased direct payments and diverse rural development and fisheries measures, looking at the impact of agricultural, agricultural policies on the entire population. The EU can apply that today's average European household, can be applied, allocates 15% of monthly income to food, and in the 960s, statistical indicators within today's EU member states have been spent on food 30% of the monthly family budget. However, the strategic objectives of the common agricultural policy by 2020 highlight, among other things, the maintenance of vital rural communities whose agriculture is a fundamental economic activity with a view to greater employment, which will have a multiple advantage on the economic, social and environmental agenda. What's going on in the Republic of Croatia today? In the Republic of Croatia, we are importing even today, the increase is in 2019. in 2018, the following indent shall be added: import of food products. So we import over, close, more than EUR 2.5 billion by importing the most pork. We import pork about EUR 150 million, and then, you know, the Republic of Croatia that has Slavonia what the most imports? 1.23 million Euros, slightly less than a billion kunas, imports of cereal products. So bread, pastries, cakes, cakes, while Slavonia is abandoned we most import the targeted policies of import lobbies that are within the Ministry of Agriculture are respected secretaries because you and this ministry that destroyed the Croatian village, Croatian peasants, which gave on the plate to European multinational companies to be the market for bad food that causes various, not only economic losses, but the demographic breakdown of the Republic, unprocessed land, only indicators of how much we import pork, as we boast of Dalmatian ham at the time of tourism, when we import the most pork as an increase in tourism, and we don't produce pork, and we're talking about Dalmatian ham that only saw Dalmatia drying in droughts, that's a fact. This is a fact and the Croatian people have emigrated by their policies by entering the EU is if Hungary could say bravely not to sell agricultural land and put it in foreign legal and physical persons and put it into law. What's the reason we don't put that in our law? So much so we wouldn't have mystified this story. The Masons were something that was mystical. However, from these secret masseuses or I don't know which organizations we all see taking over the DORH, they have taken over the key institutions. Probably the Ministry of Agriculture, too, this secretary. That was mystic until a few days ago. Look how mystical they are. It is so mystical how Monsanto lobbys for his products such as glyphosate, while Austria prohibits the use of glyphosate, we in the Republic of Croatia say the Minister of Agriculture she has no problem with it. While such a battle is being fought in the EU, in parliament, lobbying against and for this glyphosate, of course a multinational company is fighting for itself, at the same time our minister says there are no problems. So ask beekeepers, ask those who are treated with this glyphosate what happens, with this chemical agent. So this Law is also related to the protection of domestic production. Today, Croatian agriculture is in decline, from vegetables, fruit production and to olive oil production, cattle production, poultry, poultry, eggs, everything is in decline, we do not produce enough eggs in the Republic of Croatia, cattle, dairy production, in 2018 we produced less milk compared to 2017 8.4%, at the same time and in 2019 4%, so in 2017-2019 we produced 12% milk and dairy products less. These are your measures, these are the measures made by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what's going on? It happens because of these results, because we do not have the courage, from good relations with these to Tajani, we must not declare the economic belt exclusively, according to international law, that the Republic of Croatia has, it is the sovereign right of the Republic of Croatia, so we have a contract with the European Union before accession where we have signed that after seven years we will sell the country, so now the government has asked for three years, and after three years nothing will be done, absolutely nothing because it is seen that nothing is done. What are the results? Moved people out of those parts. The only thing that you and your Government can boast about is that you have increased economic growth, by driving these young people from Slavonia and the farmers of the Dalmatian Mountain, like, driven away, and we have 6% of the GDP from our people from other countries of Europe, and I don't know where, from which other countries, who send to their families, and there are fishing and agriculture. So here we are, here's the Law I gave, but as a MOST, we gave the laws, the MOST Club, which are absolutely necessary in the Republic, so let the government propose them, from an exclusive economic belt, but 'a lot more important than our fishermen, the protection of our flora and fauna, everything that the tribune, is much more important to protect, is a much more important relationship between Tajani and Plenkovic, it's a much more important relationship. We are all kind of far away, yes, that we have to produce, that we have been working our land that is not under the weeds, today when we have a crisis of migrant at the door, when we were saying that the army is at the borders, for months I have warned that the army is at the borders, that it is going to do its job in accordance with the Law which it was, had the Ministry under its jurisdiction, that the Croatian army is at the borders, that the Croatian army will come, because we will be forced, just so it is not too late, and now the migrant crisis plus the virus, as far as we now have the reserve, as far as we have food products, and that we do not have to import, as far as we have processed land, whether we have to import from Italy if it comes to forbid that, for example, I am speaking, we see what is happening in Italy that an epidemic has started, I hope that we will stop, how much we have to stop, how much we have produced products, or we have produced products from these products, or can be made. We have a state-owned company owned by Croatia, Podravka, we repromatter imported from Hungary, carrots, peppers, and had a Sinjsko polje,... Cetina, passing a hundred times, I say 'thousand times I will say', we call on the European Union and the Funds, we call on the European Union and the Funds, and we have Cetina that goes through the middle of the Sinj field, six thousand hectares, we have no irrigation system, we have no sewerage through the city, but it is much more important that our prime minister goes to Ukraine and say, in Ukraine to solve the problem of Russian-Ukrainian crime, than that we have a irrigation system, that when we chair the European Union to protect our agricultural land and our strategic right to be in Croatian ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I said in Croatia's agricultural land, 70% is in private hands, unfortunately, and that part is parked on small plots, mainly in areas where I come from, but also in other parts, and 30% is owned by the state. The state land is 884 thousand hectares, of which the agricultural land is owned by the state I speak, 364 thousand, and this land is exactly what can give a price-competitive product to the Croatian farmer. And base ourselves on domestic production. Now I'm calling from this place if anyone's listening at this time, it's very important that you buy this topic at our grandmother's market. When I was young, kid, we were in agriculture, we were in cattle, we were in Peshkaria Sinjska, we were in the market, we say a towel, I'm in my grandmother's sale, and in the city we were selling it, our products, but now it's the other way around, now we're vans in the countryside, what do we do? What do we do? Well, we don't have a stock fund, we don't have anything, we don't have anything, we destroy the O.P.G., we destroy everything. And that is why exactly the fair distribution of state land and the introduction of a ban on selling land to foreign citizens indefinitely is an argument that can bring Croatian farmers back to a competition in the European Union because this land is ecologically preserved, but it is under the weeds. And that's why when we laugh just before our colleague Ivan Pernar, so really Croatia once produced hemp,... industrial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but it's produced in much higher quantities than it is now, but it's all made sense to us, when we talk about Masons and mystic associations, we have a meaningful migrant crisis and an army at the border, it's important for the prime minister to come, it's all thought of us, that the prime minister comes here to say we have economic growth, and what's 2/3 of Croatia empty, what he's looking for in third country's policies, that's the least important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the ministry is now doing with the Law on Agricultural Land, the OPG Law is death for Croatian farmers. Instead of being maximum-relieving, you also take off tax burdens in terms of contributions, you do high treason. You are declaring foreign, harmful GMO products except instead of encouraging domestic organic production and doing so on our markets. And that is our wealth, agricultural land is a national resource, and our sovereign right is to protect agricultural land because contracts do not respect Hungary either. If the contract with the EU does not respect Hungary, what is the reason that Hungarians can buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia or anyone else. In no way do you protect the distinguished secretaries of the domestic producer. Instead of, as I said, you release the charge, you take down taxes and taxes in terms of contributions, you do high treason. In no way do you protect manufacturers. In fact, your measures weaken it, and you parallelly allow the entry of EU farmers from other countries whose production and profits have tripled over the last few years as I have stated in which countries. And which is considerably richer than our farmer, so they are otherwise richer than our farmer and, of course, in that game our farmer is unfortunately, if we don't pass these laws, unfortunately lost. But this time, gentlemen, if you do not accept the protection of agricultural land, you have not accepted the MOST's proposal of an exclusive economic belt, you have not accepted the entry into the Constitution of the protection of drinking water, protection of the right to drinking water and the protection of drinking waters, gentlemen we are losing the war, but we will not allow you to do so. They used to drive us around a lot and kick us like geese in the fog. There's a lot of blood spilled in this country, in the free state of the Republic of Croatia, that you're fogging and that our secret organizations are mystically masseous or what they call system management through interest groups that are solely the target of the monopoly. Well, we have more of these imported registered companies that don't see products than in, than in our farmers. And know, they will leave Croatia if we lose this war and know that they will leave Croatia and work, these farmers in Austria, Germany, Ireland in the same economies that you and your politicians have to leave the Republic of Croatia for. I also ask the ministry to publicly show that it has distributed state agricultural land, why the Law on Land Agriculture has changed three times already, which we will defend in the EU the requirement to ban agricultural land for as many years as you say. And unfortunately that brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia, the government has confirmed, I will quote you to me even if you were a respected secretary in one respect, the counties are brakes available to state agricultural land. After 2 years of the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land, the results of the implementation of the law have been devastating, since the 430 programmes available to state agricultural land less than half of them have been approved, and only 43 applications for the allocation of land have been carried out. Only 11,000 hectares were allocated, the counties blocked the system. So the ministry is a position, now you will be here demagogy that it is different and your populisms that have destroyed Croatia's state. Gentlemen, you have completely torn apart the system of availability to state agricultural land under the weeds. The land has become subject to political blackmail and trade, county and mayors are blackmailing municipalities, and local sheriffs will blackmail people, our farmers as local elections approach in 2021. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs are before us as agents, as I said the battle would either lose the war or there will be a war. The key resources of the Republic of Croatia are agricultural land, forests, water, our sea, the exclusive economic belt, so our territory, it's a key resource. I'm proud to be in the MOST Club and we've proposed all this, and I'm also proud to be declared here if I talk about things I don't know what kind of things, when I said we should protect our domestic production and buy in our grandmothers because I'm living and I'm going to live in the country and I know what it means for the survival of people, domestic production, environmental production. In the tourist country we live, we import pomidores, pomivores we import or tomatoes, so is that possible, what did you bring this country to? And now, of course, we have a crucial battle, that the Croatian state has agricultural land unprocessed enough to produce food, we see in crisis situations how much food it means, to ban imports of harmful products, sales, trade and destruction of domestic production, and we can ban GMOs except for medical purposes, that's when I fenced myself. Monsanto and this team are not an interest, neither domestic production, nor domestic seed, nor domestic seed bank, absolutely nothing is in their interest except profits and control over seeds, over production, both of herbicides, pesticides. And now this minister comes to you, I'm going to mention one more time, I've given it to the procedure, for months there's been a law on the ban on glyphosate. So, the herbicide banned by Austria, so their parliament, the House of Commons has already banned it. There are battles in the EU where they are, mystic, lobbying for Mosant's product. Certain structures resist and always delay the ban. Why wouldn't we be banned in the Republic of Croatia? If it has harmful effects on bees, if it has adverse effects on human health, if people are in charge of processes. in the U.S. for getting sick because of that pesticide, herbicide. What are we afraid of? Well, I'm only ears because of this in politics. It was never clear to me why my son's field reads the drought, the srid lita writes drought in the blue field. We do not use EU funds targeted if someone is going to make instructions, if it becomes a valuable country, someone will buy this land, strong, I just counted the countries of Latvia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, which have tripled, have doubled since they entered the EU their agricultural production, food products, and we import only pork billions of kuna and bakery products, watch out for cereals, and we have Slavonia. Bread, cakes, $125 million, slightly less than a billion, so be careful, where do we live? We're importing flour, hey, so who's interested? What kind of policies are these? Dvornička, a servant is much more important than the relationship I repeat, Tajania and Plenkovic, that she will be elected to the Council of Europe by the secretary of Mrs. Pejcinovic, Pejcinović Buric than how to protect our IGP. This is all connected. So, we have these things about, world-wide, ideologically, I don't have to agree with anyone here, but these 5-6 things I've listed, from IGP, from agricultural land, our drinking waters, our forests, our energies, which, our resources and potentials, are the key resources around which we would tribals have an agreement, not that lobbyists and their influences pay us to the parties, so that we can match them to be influential in the EU. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, agricultural land is the most important battle, let us not fall like geese in the fog, I will repeat Stjepan Radic. I'm going to repeat to Stjepan Radic all the time here because it doesn't seem so mystical and far away. We're pushing like geese in the fog. Croatian agricultural land exclusively for Croatian peasants. In rural areas exclusively the Croatian peasant and the struggle for the survival of Croatian peasants in the Croatian village. The Republic of Croatia will never be rich until the Croatian village is rich. Who's poored him, secretaries? Who impoverished my Croatian village? Worse than the time of the Turks, of all conquerors. Who impoverished the village? So that you, under the Brussels lights or this assembly, would speak here of fantasies, populism, and declare us populists. I think our dodos and great-grandfather's bones in the grave are covered by agriculture. What you did from the village and the state of Croatia. Without the village, there is no rich Republic of Croatia. The village must be at the helm. The village must be at the helm. Until the Republic of Croatia is such gentlemen, there's nothing from the Republic of Croatia. And these are the last battles, not battle after battle, but this is the battle you will win or lose the war for the survival of Croatian peasants, Croatian citizen. Lies now in pre-election time. Except for the lambs that you didn't do anything. Of the oxen which ye roasted, and of the lambs which ye drank by lying to the Croatian people, holding hands upon the heart, lying. At that time, I founded these homeland movements as a child, as a young boy, and proud of that time. What are our ancestors going to say now, and let's look into the future, what would they say if they came here now, what would they say? In the 21st century, the field was unworked, so that means targeted lobbyist politics. In the end, once again, RH, agricultural land for the Croatian peasant and no one else. Croatian village if rich and Croatian country will be rich and citizen and one who lives in the city and professor and artist is Croatian product is the basis of the survival of Croatian people, and mainly agricultural product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187962	Thank you, too. Four replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bull, I've been listening very carefully to you for half an hour, we've taught you a lot of new things, but good. I would just like to ask you a question if you know that foreigners today can buy a Croatian country if they start a company or buy a company just as well as we can in the EU based on reciprocity. Second, the moratorium for sale directly to foreigners on 3.g. He's wanted and there's no reason not to. More important question to me is why local self-government units are already 2.5 years old. They almost didn't call for a 25+25 lease. or for the sale of land to Croatian citizens, then this problem that you have listed today in one point, I will later elaborate it in my individual debate and on behalf of the club, today we would not discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187964	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187965	Mr. Križanić, you ask me, you ask me why local self-government has not solved the problem of assigning agricultural land, divided. So stop, Mr. Crossman. You're saying foreigners can't become owners of agricultural land, so concessions are already in foreign hands, not only that, but sources, but sources, and our contract is, this moratorium that's wanted, it can be for 3 years you're looking for, what are you going to achieve for agricultural land? What will you achieve? Nothing. This is a crucial battle. And I will never again agree to those populisms of yours, so you spoke about GMOs, so you spoke about glisophate, you throw around all the populisms, and the more populisms you throw around, the more our village is empty. The only thing I'm going to look out for is to agree that the Croatian agricultural country belongs exclusively to the Croatian peasant alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187966	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, as far as I'm concerned, in reply to replicas and there you can sit and here, you know, as a proposer, wherever you want, wherever you want, whatever you want. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187967	Dear fellow Bull. So you have set many examples of laws that you have fought for Croatian sovereignty in key fields. So as far as strategic resources are concerned, today it's a matter of land. We have a situation that simply the influences and interests of other countries prevailed in Croatia, you mentioned quite a lot of secret organizations in your speech, there are also these influences, but I would not say that the Ministry of Agriculture is influenced by Masonic organisations, prior to the import lobbys throughout the years destroying the Croatian village, Croatian farmers and rare voices like yours are heard in the protection of that Croatian village. Unfortunately these voices are no longer coming from the HSS, you are, you could say a mere tribune Who advocates these interests, and here I am to you this way. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Congratulations. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187968	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187969	Col. Grumo, agricultural land and this law that we are now talking about, as well as the Law on the Prohibition of Imports, Transport and Sales of GMOs, which through import lobbies and pests within the ministries, because this is not the fault of a Croatian peasant but those who would fight for peasants, which is the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Ministry of Agriculture has a greater impact on the import lobbys and pests within that ministry and until we get rid of these pests, we are really now fighting a battle on which the war depends. It's agricultural land, it's the protection of our domestic production, it's the protection and human right to drinking water which we're also looking for as Club Mosta and that's what we're looking for, but our politicians, because of their interests, the whole people are pushing like geese into the fog and it's never been worse, and even during Stephen Radic it wasn't worse agriculture than it is now, in the 21st century, and we don't have any. It compromises more. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Croatian country, Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187970	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187971	Dear Representative Bulj, I think you've hit a very important topic. So, imports almost, over a billion euros worth of food cannot make a country that wants to be called independent and sovereign, and that is a very important issue, even if we are part of the EU, that is why we are part of that big market. You mentioned both peasants and their food and a recommendation to buy them, yes, we don't have built-in mechanisms that would make the individual, organic, healthy, traditional food dominantly value it differently than the feeling of leaving, smelling and enjoying the taste of such prepared and bought foods, and the responsible policy would certainly deal with the issue more strongly and better. food labelling. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187972	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187973	Mr. Dobrovic, you have devoted your whole life and profession to sustainable development and you know what the village means. When you mention the compost in waste management, then you know what you're talking about. We're saying that composals in our Zagreb and Split can serve our farmers to donate it to them, that they should, we did a great thing. However, it is a shame to import 2.5 billion euros of food products into Croatia. A billion kunas of pork, a billion kunas of grain, grain products, bread, cakes, dairy products, 12% in two years we have now reduced the production of milk and milk products. But we import GMOs, there's a quarter of them on shelves now in the Republic of Croatia that are underrated by prices just so they don't buy homework. That's why it's important to point out, buy some homework, shop in our peasants, as much as we can. That's how we help regardless of the virus. Which calls, but let's buy from our producers. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187974	Thank you. And Mrs. McNally. Shots fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187975	I call on citizens to think about which party, apart from the Bridge, opened key matters regarding sovereignty in Croatia. I am not talking about changed streets and other world-wide issues, I am talking about Croatia having control over its exclusive economic belt, its water springs and its land, and that is agricultural land. The only bridge in this assembly was to open these questions and tell the citizens that we must be the ones who run our own country, our own waters, our own air. So what happens in Slavonia is the direct consequence of this government's decisions. What's happening with agricultural land has driven hundreds of thousands of people away, what happened in the last 20 years with the disappearance of 50,000 dairy producers has driven people out of this country. I'm curious. 30 times they've changed the Agricultural Land Act, have they ever taken one step to protect our country? our land, our peasant [[Thank you, ma'am. Shots fired.]] No, they're not. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Why? What do you think? Why did they sell us out? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187976	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187977	Well, yes, I think the current meaning is statistical indicators, and the real state that is equal to high treason on both matters and agricultural land and as you said what the Bridge has opened here from a number of issues, from the IGP where we intended to protect our resource on the Adriatic of our fisherman, in this case protecting Croatian peasants, to stay alive in this area. But more important to them are some topics that we don't all have to agree on. These are the topics of life, these are the sovereign themes, these, for this, the Croatian soldier fought for these topics. And the diversity of the world view and whatever the festival of democracy is, and that's where we have to fight for it. But if we don't have a compromise on these topics, gentlemen, then this Croatia loses a crucial battle, a battle on which the whole war depends, and these are these key five things we mentioned, land, forest, our Adriatic, water, that's crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187978	Thank you. Does he want to take the words of the committee representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Josip Križanić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187979	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Bull. So, land law, to discuss this law, I've been preparing for a little longer than you've written. So, very briefly. If we're talking, we want to talk about populistism now, my dear friends, believe me, I can tell you about every topic in agriculture for five hours. All our lives in agriculture, my colleague Bulj, we've been producing 35 thousand pigs, we've got 1,500 sows, we've got 100 heroes and 700 acres of land we've been working, we've been in the mud all day. So we, please don't impute what we ruined, what we did because we didn't. So much for who's allowed to talk about agriculture. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why we're from you. So you've taught us a lot of things in half an hour about all the topics and from every man it's good to learn and hear. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Križanić, we all act like that when we're in the benches, but we follow the warnings, you know, right? Okay. Okay.]] The bill's proposal, your law is contrary to the EU's legislative frameworks and the provisions of the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, the government's representative warned. Mr. Bulj, please, if you want to listen, I to you, you have made a bill, so I am speaking to you, so I would like to read for the public what we are discussing today. You know, he had a law that Mr. Bulj put forward a proposal to amend the Law on Agricultural Land, Art. 2 is amended in Article 2 and reads as follows: ‘The holders of ownership rights on land referred to in Article 1 of this Article cannot be foreign legal and natural persons.’ 2.: “This law enters into force on the 8th day of its publication in the National Journal. ” That's what we should discuss today. We heard about Neretva, the GMO, the destruction of the Croatian state. For the purposes of this Article, ‘the proposed amendment suggests that the holder of ownership rights on agricultural land cannot be a foreign legal or natural person.’ 2.: “This article provides for the entry into force of the law. ” So, if we're legalists, if we're serious, if we're serious about this in front of the Croatian public, then we need to know what we're talking about. I asked you earlier, and you know very well. If someone from the EU, any EU resident or legal or natural person, buys a company in the Republic of Croatia or a legal person or resident of a Croatian country in the EU, there is no problem in buying it and owning land throughout the EU under current laws. It's reciprocity. You can say whatever you want to Croatian citizens, I would love it if it were possible to forbid it, but it's not, it's not possible, it's like that. ... It's like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agricultural land law, existing, provides for a restriction on the availability of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia during the duration of the moratorium for sale to foreigners, and additional protection is regulated by establishing the right of the championship in the process of obtaining the right to dispose of wood agricultural land. Namely, units of local self-government may be in accordance with Art. 30th century 1 sells a maximum of 25% of the total surface area of wood agricultural land in its area. That's the first one. Second, the provisions of Art. In the 64th century, 1st and 2nd. The law lays down criteria for the exercise of the right to purchase land, where first, the previous owners, colleagues, Bulj, have the advantage. After that, under 41 years of age and a domicile population, which, in accordance with the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia for the preservation of rural development, is not a genocide of the Croatian people, and we have not sold out the aprioras all the way you speak. I personally asked the EU Commissioner who was in this HS a month ago that when we were giving, we would ask for a 3-year moratorium for no reason not to get it, but not at all, to personally advocate that we as a small country that we are not capable of, we have no financial or other resources to put under control of our land within 3 months to follow us, to advocate it because all the other countries that have sought the moratorium and received it. We also asked that no direct payments be reduced, to us, to the new Member States because the old Member States have been using the EU's blessings for a decade or 20 years. Buddy Bull, that's it. It's what's a fact and it's a fact and that's what we can fight and we're legalists. If we want to talk about populistism here, believe me, I can talk as much as I want, five hours. Agricultural land is distributed under this law on the basis of decisions and procedures of units of local self-government, and this government is quite firm based on previous experiences decided to decentralisation, we thought best. I'm going to have this debate on behalf of the club, and I'm going to debate it myself so that you can replicate me so I don't even think I'm afraid to argue with you. Yes, by centralization, we thought best that the Commissioners and Mayors would have the best land in their territory. Personally, I find that some of the provisions are not good, so I'll say that later on on behalf of the club on my own behalf. The former Agency for Agricultural Land between its 60 and 70, with its 60-70 people, could not do it, do it properly and we had the opportunity to see that, that it did not work very well. The number of competitions and hectares of land allocated will also contribute. We should also say that part of the land is still used by certain contracts, so do everything to get land deployed or sold to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Are we satisfied with the speed of availability and tendering? We didn't. Until today, should we have made land available and deployed to Croatian citizens? Yeah. And then today my dear friends wouldn't be discussing this. We should have. The law came into force 2.5 years ago. That is why we should appeal to the mayors and mayors to discuss the lease and sell that as quickly as possible and to place the land under the control of Croatian citizens and Croatian firm colleagues Bulj. The subject was accompanied by an interpretation of the government's inaction with the extension of moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners, who also refused the Agriculture Committee. Why? The Republic of Croatia has approved a seven-year transitional period. That transitional period shall end on 1 July 2020. And logically, we didn't ask for an extension of the moratorium before 3 years ago. than requested at the end of last year. ... What? [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] The accession Treaty establishes the possibility of extending the transitional period for an additional 3.g. if the Republic of Croatia demonstrates that, after the expiry of the transitional period, there will be serious disturbances or threats to serious disturbances in the agricultural land market in the Republic of Croatia, this has been sent and elaborated. At the request of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission will decide to extend the transitional period for allocations for an additional 3rd year. By July 1, 2023, there is no reason not to accept it, there is no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So far, a meeting has been held between the representatives of the Republic of Croatia and DG FISMA to discuss the technical aspects of the sale, the submission of applications. There are several basic reasons why the Republic of Croatia was based on such a request. First, a huge difference in market prices, a huge income difference, an unfavourable economic environment, takes additional time to implement the ongoing process, and they are related to the return of the deprived and nationalised countries, the regulation of land books, the demining of agricultural land, these are one of the reasons that we have cited. In the Republic of Croatia there are still no adequate financial instruments, loans, which would promise Croatian farmers land purchases, especially not larger parcels, these are all the reasons we cited. So, there are a number of reasons for delaying the sale of land to foreigners by making it clear that foreigners today can buy land in the Republic of Croatia under certain conditions if they establish a company or buy a company that owns land in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia submitted a request for the extension of the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, and was submitted in due time to the European Commission at the end of last year. The implementation of the Agricultural Land Act, so far 410 programmes have been adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture, of which the ministry has given its consent, are data from two weeks or three, of which the ministry has agreed on 211 programmes, and other programmes have been sent to supplement and amend the provisions of the Law on Sublaws, Laws and Sublaws. So far there are 11, 11 contests, which is devastating, it's devastating and it's not good. Units of local self-government who have received agreement on the competition programme and most of the competitions are planned to be opened by half of 2020. Finally, the Republic of Croatia must act as a responsible and serious EU member, we will extend the moratorium to purchase land to foreigners for 3 years, and until then local self-government units should call for tenders, smartly dispose of their land, either by renting 25+25. Croatian citizens and the sale of land also to Croatian citizens. I'll tell you my personal attitude about this law later, about things that I think should be changed, which I don't think are best, and it's no problem if, the law isn't a holy letter, it can change. Finally, and in a conversation with the minister, she also has a plan to amend some of the provisions of the law. Therefore, the HDZ Club considers that we have much better, legal, relevant solutions and will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187980	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's proposal asked for a word for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187981	Dear counterpart Križanić, on behalf of the HDZ Club, you essentially agreed with me, except for what you said the law was too simple. Yes, I have tried to make this proposal simple to amend the law and what I have given as an amendment when you voted against, the amendment that there is no sale to foreign legal and physical persons selling agricultural land and there is nothing more complicated than being in the law as it is in Hungary. You know that in the Hungarian law on, oh, written that in the Law on Agricultural Land or already as it is called, there is no sale to foreign legal and physical persons. So I'm not talking here about the problem that you said, Miro is a populist, Miro this, yes, I mentioned GMOs. We have 800 hectares, 800 000 hectares, something less, unprocessed agricultural land what state, what private, 800 000, something less than 790 000 hectares, and to produce on that, on that pure, ecological, agricultural land, we would really not import this many GMOs, and you are also one of the parliamentary representatives who did not oppose GMOs, don't oppose either gliphosate, my law will see you accept the league, which I gave in the procedure, about the ban on glyphosate, but when you're dealing with cattle in private, I don't know how.../incomprehensible/... I didn't understand. The glyphosate you know has already been banned by Austria, the lower home has voted, and in the European Parliament this battle of this harmful herbicide is being fought. Everything, I would just list what comes out of this law, if the country had been taken from Croatian peasants, if our Croatian village had been emptied, if we were importing, you could tell me whether it's true or not less than EUR 3 billion, EUR 3 billion, of which we import pork billions of kunas the most, importing something close to so billion bakeries of products, cookies, bread, importing pastries, importing, what it says, that policies and incentives may be good, I don't know how the incentives are going now, but the incentives are well directed, that you might know better. So ask your peasants are satisfied, where you live. I talk to my people every day, we have much less parcels, we are being held in them much less than in your territory, but I know that people could live in the country, they could live in the country, and today everything is destroyed. Is it acceptable for you, Mr Križanić, that the Croatian peasants have been taken from Sinjsko polje because we do not have a irrigation system and that in Split 20 km from Sinj we sell pomiras from Italy or tomatoes, tomatoes, as they say, they say in us pomidores, is that acceptable to you? Well, this is the battle of all battles. We have in the EU, in EU funds where we are at the bottom, after withdrawing, we have the means to irrigate the field i.e. agricultural surfaces, we did not withdraw funds, no, no, we did not because it is much more important how to solve the Ukrainian crisis in Crimea, if Prime Minister Plenkovic will show by example how he will, Russia will explain it to or how he gets to Tajania or I don't know who. It will be much easier to solve this problem, and the exclusive economic belt, the GMO food you voted for, the glyphosate you are now in position I will give you the support of one copy of my law if.../incomprehensible/... so I will support you because beekeepers object, farmers object to this harmful Herbicide, you know more about it than anyone else. And I say this exclusively as a country man who will die in the country and have no interest in living in the city, here I am, at this point only a parliamentary representative, but I know, and you know it too, that this battle, not a meaningless battle around agricultural land, about the water, drinking waters that Croatia has, around our seas of an exclusive economic belt, about energy and about telecommunications, are the battles that win or lose war. We 2/3 of Croatia have empty and you say that I am a populist what I propose law is what we have in Hungary, and we are equal in the EU and Hungary has signed pre-accession negotiations, but she said, Hungarians have said, Orban Doša and the river has no sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. What you say to company owners, what they get in our sources, what they get our agricultural land and now you're making bad moves of this government to local leaders who will use it locally in their campaign, not everyone, to distribute that land. Well, I read you the Ministry's position, and I watched it. On television where you are and where the secretary then said that the county is a brake to the state agricultural land. It's the secretary's position here, and I can show you the contribution on HTV. Everyone washes Pilate's hands, import lobby does whatever it wants. How many soybean soybeans are imported, introduced, which is treated with glyphosate that you might feed your cattle? How much do we import pork that is fed by glyphosate and GMO products, these harmful glyphosate and how much is it sold? Say it right here in the open. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bull.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187982	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187983	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, I don't think my colleague Križanić understands what you have suggested. Therefore, in Hungary it is prohibited for those who do not have Hungarian citizenship or who do not have a business in Hungary to buy agricultural land. Well, that's with us now because we have this moratorium, but that will eventually pass, but in the Hungarian government, it's illegal. I don't know if you understand that, and when you talk about that nobody can talk about agriculture except you because you have so many throats I'd like to examine how much support you've got, did you have any use for being a HDZ agent? We know that you got a lot, we read it, we read it that you got everything, so we read it, I didn't get anything. Thieves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187984	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187985	You're a common thief. You're one of the most common thieves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187986	Thank you very much, I promised, thank you very much, I promised, I promised...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187987	...you're one of the most common thieves, a shovel one HDZ, a shovel one, a shovel one, a shovel one, if we had justice in prison, you'd be in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187988	Mr. Grumoja and Mr. Lucic's warning, that's the first warning. Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoya, you know how it goes no further? I, too, Mr. Lucic, know how to get warnings when I act like you and Mr. Thunder when I'm there, but I take them. You will receive them, and then you will not be able to speak again. Sir, you are, yes, now I'm talking about the most serious next time coming a second warning and then after that taking away the word, no matter who it's about. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187989	Well colleague Grmoja, apparently colleague Križanić he knows it is a moratorium at the moment and that these rules are worth that citizenship and the company he opened here so he can, means this one in this way... But since 01.07. it will no longer be worth it, I ask that it enter into the Law, this is what the Hungarians have put into their Law, and the name of it, the obligation to protect the Croatian peasants and the Croatian village, to do this, because this is the battle whether the Croatian peasant will essentially be the owner of Croatian agricultural land or who knows who, and I am saying this because if the Hungarians could have done it by their law, if Orban has the right to say it to non-Croatian natural and legal persons or to some third country, why wouldn't the Croats have done it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187990	Mr. Shucker, a reminder, Because you're getting in now. [[attack Ivan Shuker: Why?]] Mr. Križanić has, Mr. Shuker has a warning that, Mr. Križanić, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Bulj...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187992	Mr. Bull, if you start getting warnings, who will defend the laws? Please, at least you, you're the Proposer, I'm sorry, as the Proposer at least you should have a different attitude to the Law you're proposing. Please go outside and talk about your things, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187993	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, when we talk about GMOs, you and I know very well that I stood up and in the name of the HDZ Club said that, and in the next twenty provisions, twenty units of regional self-government that we are explicitly against GMOs free farming. If we are talking about signing agreements with the European Union and we want to be a member of the European Union, then I want to tell you very clearly, and I do not think of discussing at this level how my colleague Bulj, a colleague of Grmoy, discussed. I just want to tell you very clearly and loudly, we can do whatever we want, just beyond that following sanctions, we can't do what we want, we can't do what we want within the European Union. Therefore, even now if a stranger buys a company or builds a company, he can have a country in Croatia, if we are talking about, previous owners, young and domestic residents always have the advantage, therefore a stranger cannot have the advantage over them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187994	Time, Mr. Crossman, time. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187995	If we are equal in the European Union and Hungary has signed the same pre-accession agreement, the same, absolutely the same, had a moratorium, and when it started happening in Hungary to buy the country, mainly in the north of this part, then they came and said, in the law they put no sale of agricultural land to foreign and legal, and to natural persons, and they protected it at the level of the Constitutional even law, I think, even above the Law they put it. If we are equally legal in the European Union, which is why we, Croatia,... one member of the European Union did so and had the same pre-accession agreement before entering the European Union, why not Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to know why we would be suppressed under Hungary, why can't a Croatian legal and physical person buy in Hungary's agricultural land, why? And Hungarians in Croatia can, so with their capital that they entered through certain banks now they can buy us a whole of Slavonia if they want. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187996	Thank you very much. There are eleven of us, there are eleven MPs, excuse me, excuse me, there are eleven of us, which is bad for democracy, it's good for spreading the virus. I just want the following, Mr. Bulj, and now, this one you've been inserting, this one in a replica, I'm going to have to give you, I won't give you a warning, but from next time I'm going to have to give you a warning, so if I give you another warning and take away the word, then we're going to continue without the proposer. I speak like a man who sits, when he sits in, in, when he sits there in benches like you, and he knows how to get a warning, and I know I get a warning not, so I understand you but I have to give a warning. Now let's move on and try, there's eleven of us all together, let's try to think. Mr. Zekanovic, in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Mr. Glasovic and Mr. Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187997	So today we're talking about a very important topic, again unfortunately we're talking late in the evening, not when we'd like to talk about it, and that's the first topic in the morning, because this is the topic that matters first and foremost for the sovereignty of our country. No matter what the law is simple and short, and what only has two articles, it's hit the metric, it's hit the core, it's simply whether we're going to give foreigners land at their disposal or not. I understand what you're saying, but you've got to understand a fellow Bull here. So, you said that even today we have the possibility that every foreign person will start a company, a natural person will start a company, and actually buy whatever they want through that company in Croatia or buy Croatian companies and thus enter the property of the property, and that's true, but that's bad. I'm not glad it's like that. So that's true, but that's bad. It is not a solution when you say something wrong and it is so, it is not a solution, so we have to do these worse things that the European Union has brought us, it has brought us much worse things than that, and we have to fight here, because now the key question is whether we are thinking within the European Union, are we Europeans or are we Croats? Here's my colleague Bulj wrote this safely from the Croatian perspective, and he'll have my support on this bill. I'm thinking the same thing. And I know the solution isn't easy, but it can be. We have... Examples, we have examples of Hungary, where even the Constitution has protected the sale of land because they are nothing without land, and on the other hand I know that no one will agree with me from the ruling majority, we are really wherever we could give in to the European Union, we will get a moratorium for another three years here, okay, three years won't be able to buy physical persons, but we always have this possibility through companies, but we are at everything where we have been able to give in to the European Union and we are slowly less and less sovereign, but now the problem of sovereignty as sovereignty is the problem if we give up our sovereignty, that we are, that we are getting worse and worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is the point, meaning giving up sovereignty for the citizens of Croatia, Croats and Croats has a worse standard. This is where my colleague mentioned the nice and problem of the economic belt. That's right. And that's a very nice example. Perhaps the most beautiful example of how we sold ourselves to get into the EU and when we think of that playbook from before, how long ago, it's going to be, like, 15, 10, 15 years old, when it's been declared so suspended, so the suspended one actually talks about our country's misery, how miserable we are. Where we are to join the EU and to like European bureaucracy, we have given Brussels bureaucracy, how many, what, 30 thousand miles of square miles of Italians have to do whatever they want. And they do whatever they want. There are various calculations, the lowest calculation that we lose 200m euros a year in fish caught by Italians in the Croatian part of international waters. And then when we talk about sovereignty, but I won't be too long, I would just say here, except for the agricultural land to be protected, the most beautiful example is, here's the migration we talked about several times today. Migration. So, migrants are entering the EU almost uninterrupted today. Actually, you'd even say I made a mistake. Only today, for the first time stopped at the EU border, were the Greeks stopped because at the moment it is not the same for Angela Merkel. And until yesterday, the Croatian police missed them and Andrej Plenkovic looked at it, and now suddenly when Mom Merkel said she couldn't, suddenly the Prime Minister became sovereign and then he said, "Now we're going to look a little differently at the migrant problem." The attributes of sovereignty are currency, preservation of borders, and ultimately, these things that my colleague was talking about. That only citizens of Croatia, Croats and Croats can own agricultural land in Croatia. Okay, we're gonna get a moratorium, but I'm not happy because after three years, we're going back into the ambis, like everything, and where's the end? And now I'm going to say what is rarely heard from this pay phone, but I really am, let's review our relationship with the EU to see how much we get and how much we lose. My superficial one comment on the EU that we are still much more losing than we are getting, and that is not good. I spoke to you, my colleague Križanić, even though my colleague Bulj is a proposing, but I agree with him, so I may have been more replicating to you than I did to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187998	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. Mr Tomislav Žagar will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, I am able to say all this until you arrive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u187999	Dear Vice-President of HS, distinguished colleague Bulj, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So someone said a serious topic in a little late hours. This topic is important from several points of view. First of all, what we can say is that the EU's common agricultural policy is also talking about these thesis that my colleague Bulj is saying when he defends this bill. and then the question arises as to why the gap between what the common agricultural policy is saying, which is, above all, the survival of rural areas, safe and available food and what appears to be the government now defending, and contrary to what counterpart Bulj proposes. In fact, it seems to me that the misunderstandings come from here all these years, and someone said that there were 20 amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, that we're a little bit, not to say we're lurking, but we're not in the sense that we don't know what we're going to do with agricultural land because there's been a lot of things done here since 2000. But more in the direction in which we will determine, not only the survival of the Croatian village but, if you want this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. Why is that, I'll say it a little later. Now, let's get back to this part of the story about the very spirit of that bill. In the Republic of Croatia, truth, we do not have a case as we had in some countries that individual financial mechanics from the EU come and buy a cheap country here because just as counterpart Križanic said the allegations that the government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the EU Commission because of the extension of the moratorium. One of these is certainly our farmers' purchasing power. So it was clear that many OPGs would buy land, but for that they needed money and, of course, banks that would then follow. We're lucky that we don't have such a mixer, according to statistics, 10% of the largest owners in the Republic of Croatia have more than 6% of the land in the lease, and 20 of them have slightly more than 8%, but the problem is that there's no OPG in that 20. So we don't have that type of problem. But what's going on? A 3-year moratorium, whether it will be enough for us to take the right attitude towards the future of the OPG and what counterpart Križanic said in that letter, that they come to the ground, to get the money they need to get to the country. Now, it opens up, when I say existence is actually a unit of local self-government. There's a second question. When we add up the amount of land in the area of 5 Slavonian counties, we get somewhere around, Virovička-podravska 50 thousand hectares, Osijek-Baranja 100 thousand hectares, Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posaviska and Požeko-Slavonska, everything is about 150, over 200 thousand hectares. The majority of the municipality's income in these areas is now coming from the lease of agricultural land. And if this happens that agricultural land with the current legal solution I think that 25% is determined, if, in the future, these units of local self-government don't have more of that agricultural land in terms of the finance they get from the lease, then it's really a question of their survival. Of course, it's a long way to talk about it now. And now we return to the key question that counterpart Križanić has asked here, why the units of local self-government did not do what this law predicted for them two years ago when he was praised by the minister and here, the secretary of state. After all, the critics and we said, okay, let's get back to the local self-government units, so they know best how things are on the ground, which is why it hasn't been done? So for the simple reason that it's a serious and difficult job and we have now, I've read, I haven't been on the Committee on Agriculture, I've read there from the media what's been going on and we always have this conflict between small and big. I had that case in the community, too. When we talk about the restrictions on agricultural land that a particular tenant may have on his property, there is a conflict between small and large because the big ones say, if you take our land, we will have to fire the workers, we have certain projects, and the little ones say again we cannot survive without the country in the country. And it's serious business, look, it can't be solved overnight, and that's why I'm not surprised now that it's started to change again, but what I resent, Secretary of State, you're the president of this committee, so give me more information, so I don't know if the local self-government units know what these changes will be about in general. Are they solely now linked to this amount of land that can be limited to the lease of a single farmer? Not to spread too much of the subject, he's right, colleague Križanić, we can talk about this subject for a long time. Let's get back to the point. I would even accept the government's explanation, 3 years of the additional moratorium, but then we need to know what we're going to do in those 3 years, how we're going to protect our agricultural producer, first of all small farmers, how they're going to come, we're going to start an agram bank, here, that's a concrete question. We have, say, a Croatian bank. Why wouldn't the Croatian bank create an agram bank that... farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To come into possession of agricultural land. It's their only safety. All this machinery that's invested is worth nothing if they don't have agricultural land. That's what we need to think about and look at, the State Statistics Office. State Secretary, as I well respected the data, 19 200 people who have been reported to live on agriculture, so they pay their contributions. In 19200, we have a million acres of agricultural land round. That turns out to be 50 acres of one employee. I realize that mechanization actually reduces the number of employees, but it still doesn't suit me. In the Republic of Croatia many more people can live than agriculture,... agriculture and the food industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, not to mention, there is no need to ignore it, according to the HGK survey they're doing now, so the coronaryvirus has already done significant damage in agricultural production. In fact, in this agriculture-related food industry, things are only going to get complicated over time and therefore we need to take the necessary steps, that the Croatian village survives too, that we don't get a new agram revolution in which only a large one will seem to survive because if we look at the behaviour of the EU Commission and the common agricultural policy, it turns out that everything is going to benefit those richer, bigger ones and that they can only be competitive. A small OPG will be questioned by their survival. And even in the end, you don't have to ignore the fact, maybe colleague Bulj didn't mention it in the interpretation of the law, but it's very important when we look at the average particle size in the Republic, it's something like 1.63 hectares. This is a serious same problem that we need to think about, and then, if foreigners can start buying land and start part by piece of that little parcel buying, very quickly it grows, we don't really know, it's called so, I think that in the EU it's recognised as a pocket sale. That is why I see this law as, above all, a good intensity, but a good reason for talking about agriculture, agricultural land, and I hope that the government is right when it says that nothing bad will happen, this 3 years, would be safer if the law of fellow Members were won, a proposal for the law of fellow Bulja. But if that is not the case, I call on the Secretary of State and the Minister of Resort to do everything to convince the Croatian farmer that there is no danger of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188000	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Miro Bulj will speak. And what? Make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188001	Now, just for a little while, he said to his colleague, Sagaru, that he agrees entirely mainly in this last part where he mentioned particle depletion, which is all over the Republic, and that's even more pronounced down in Dalmatia and because of the unsettled cadastrian particles, so we have this one problem, but this problem stands to a good look at, but you guessed essentially the core. What the EU calls on farmers to do is, because of the survival of people, that agriculture is exclusively due to the survival of people in these rural areas, to be encouraged by the production of healthy food and the survival of people in the area, in fact, this principle is obviously not valid in Croatia. In Croatia, people in these areas have moved out since we joined the EU. While we have other countries, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia that took advantage of that moment of economic and we nothing here, you here well said, the government asked, I proposed this last year at 2rd, 3rd month. This law. Less important. That's when the intensity started that it was the Agriculture Act, a little bit of us from the opposition warned, then you said we'd look for a moratorium, three years longer than the 7th month. This year. But here is the principle of equality. We have Hungary that raised it to the level of the Constitution, I think, or constitutional law. We have a principle, if Hungary could say, why don't we tell us? And that goes to the Hungarians painlessly, they know it's their key resource. And our agricultural land is a key resource, and our farmer is no longer a farmer on the market sustainable. .../incomprehensible... isn't it? And we have conditions, we have 700 thousand acres of unprocessed land, half-and-a-half. Half of it's private, half it's state-owned. As for the distribution of land.../incomprehensible... it's a disaster. It's a disaster and it's bad laws and changes and the Law on OPGs that impose our people's burdens, here's counterpart Križanić said he was involved in the production of pig cattle and, and beef and beef production, probably importers. So if you're importing meat by accident, colleague Križanić, tell me if you've been treating soy pork, soybeans treated with glyphosate. You probably also import meat, not just produce meat. Is it just, or are you just producing or importing? Do you produce or import? Here, I'm curious that all importers should say what food we eat, is it treated with glyphosate? If you have a replica, you have a word and you have to say it later. So, what we would ban, we import it into the Republic of Croatia. How much pork do we import? Most pork. A billion kunas. Therefore, we have a huge problem here, and thank you very much to Mr. Sagar, colleague of Sagar, but rather to colleague Zekanovic. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188002	Mr. Sagar gave you a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188003	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, in the debate alone I forgot to mention the practices of some countries, I think perhaps even if it were the UK, but I'm not sure that even the land can be sold, bought, the owner can become a legal or physical person of state land, but for a certain period of time, let's say for 20 years. or 25 years old. and after that, that land will go for sale again so that someone else can buy it anywhere, it is not really guaranteed or said that someone will be engaged in agricultural activity for more than 20 or 25 years. It's the same thing, some of the protection mechanisms for agricultural land not to become permanent property, let's say the word of foreigners, although it's not, it's not right, it's not some xenophobia that we're afraid of sites, it's supposed to be afraid of rounding up agricultural land for the purpose, in terms of precisely these financial mechanics that we lose control of actually agricultural production, it's crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188004	If you were listening to what Mr. Sagar said, could you take the presidency? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188005	Ma colleague Žagar, this law has nothing to do with xenophobia, any, but I simply want the Croatian farmer to be competitive, to process ecologically preserved land, we said a little less than 100,000 hectares of land, half of which is state-owned, the state of this land of poor care, it transferred, decentralized towards local self-governments. These local self-governments behave, the government claims it's the county's fault, i.e. A ministry that hasn't been assigned land. Our peasant has been humiliated, these areas have been evicted, and this is why this is an important battle. I am for the Croatian peasant to get that agricultural land to stay in his village and it is the only one, without a strong village and our farmer in the country we have no survival in these areas. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188006	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Grmoy will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188007	I would at first apologize that the debate on this important law marked this conflict with my colleague, Lucic, whom I did not, this one did not address, I asked Mr Križanić a legitimate question about support. So, I don't know why I was so attacked, and then in accordance with this Dalmatian temperament I and I reacted even though I think that, that it would be much better if we had discussed, this bill and the fact that we have big problems with our village, with our farmers who are unfortunately more and more endangered, they are getting smaller, the growing number of young people deciding to deal with agriculture. One good part of our population goes out of the Republic of Croatia, especially from these areas where people are mostly engaged in agriculture, down from my valley of Neretva, so Zagor, and then all the way to Slavonia where, where these scales of emigration are increasing, so it's very good that fellow Bulj, regardless of what the Government has rejected this proposal, has opened this issue and what we are at all discussing what to do with our agricultural land, land, how to protect this one of the most valuable resources at all and how to treat it. It is quite clear that we, and this is what counterpart Križanić warned, that we cannot stop some companies operating in the Republic of Croatia, buy this Croatian agricultural land, but at least with this moratorium that we have now or with one of these, such a proposal may reduce this jag of our agricultural land, especially in, at these times when, when people simply have enough money, or this one see a perspective of some kind in the Republic, then perhaps they are easier to decide on, for that sale, so that in all of this, I would not say that this proposal is some kind of pulism, I think that, that it is very good, very good to discuss it. I have already praised a member of our club during the replica, meaning my colleague Bulja for fighting for the Croatian village and Croatian peasants, he has shown this from this proposal for the ban on GMOs, which unfortunately was rejected here in HS until now these latest proposals where it goes in this direction. And we may not have any more in the HS regiment like Mr. Pancretic, but we have Mr. Bulja, he's not in HSS, but here he is in MOST, and it's very nice to me as the president of the club, regardless of these attacks he's often exposed to that he doesn't understand this regulation, that he doesn't know the matter, but what Miro understands very well and nobody can deny it, it's that he feels any Croatian people, that he feels Croatian peasants, that he lives with him, that he shares these problems, and besides, when it comes to making a political decision, I prefer to consult Mira Bulja than someone who has finished not knowing political science. So, because a man feels, feels any people, feels that pulse, and that's actually the most important thing in politics and life. They say that this emotional intelligence is far more important than I know this intelligence or some knowledge. That's much more useful in life. So we need to feel how our people live, how our people live in the Neretva valley, how our people live in the Dalmatian Zagora, how our people live in Lika and Gorski Kotar, how our people live in Slavonia, and we need here through the debate, maybe some proposal that is proposed and not the best, maybe it can be done, we need to look for solutions together. I wasn't particularly hot in the debate, I asked a legitimate question because you colleagues acted like, here's what the rest of us have to talk about agriculture. I don't do agriculture, but I think as a national representative I have the right here to talk about all the issues. That's why people chose me. That doesn't mean I'm good at all things, that I know the same thing about every topic, but sometimes I consult, ask someone who knows, read something. So that way that you went into the debate led unfortunately to this, this conflict because it was immediately that you were preparing longer, to prepare this or your explanation than Miro had prepared or Miro was preparing the law, and then to what we were going to talk about agriculture. I think that every one of us here and here I commend all the representatives here who are here in the assembly, who listen and listen is a sort of participation in the debate this is all of us here because we need to be, because that's our job. So this one and we all have a right to say something about it. I'd just end up maybe adding around that relationship. I have the feeling that Croatian politics and somehow the statements of key actors in Croatian politics are changing according to the change in circumstances on the European or world political scene. Someone here mentioned migrants, I'm convinced if this is where Hungary has already gone in this direction, that another or two countries are heading that way and in Croatia it would have been kind of braver to talk about it, maybe even someone from the government. We have the same situation around these migrants where until two months ago here and President Milanovic spoke there is no way, here I am reading, as there is no chance of an army at the border, here I am reading now and the president of SDP Bernardic says at this point no, but this is the possibility. So, circumstances change, and that's what's sad in Croatian politics, which we never look at what we're going to do to protect Croatian interests, regardless of all the contracts we signed, they signed other contracts, but they're always looking for some way to protect national production, how to protect national interests, how to protect large strategic companies, and I don't think there's been a meeting between the German Chancellor and our prime minister that there have been any talks about HT or Deutsche Telekom's interest in Croatia. And then we can talk about the European market, the free market, but we know that Germany is pushing, Germany is pushing its interests as one if not the most powerful then among the two most powerful EU members. And I would like all the representatives here to be aware of it somehow, and not us MPs, but you in the government and the ministries that somehow we always think that we can protect the interests of the Croatian man, Croatian farmer, Croatian peasants, Croatian craftsmen, entrepreneurs and always be in our focus somehow. And that makes sense. First you look at your family somehow, right, then you look at your countrymen, your nation and your citizens means independently of the nation of those who live in Croatia, regardless of what nations, nationalities. So you're looking at these people first. I think that's how it should be. And watch their interests. Besides, that's why they chose us here. And in that sense, here's another commendation for my fellow Bulls, because this is not a proposal from the Most Club, but rather his personal legal proposal. We as a club will support the legal proposal, and the government and you in the ruling majority leave to think you have means a lot more people at your disposal than a fellow Bull to write the law, you have a lot more services and you can think about mechanisms and you can think about how to protect Croatian interests. Here, thank you, and I'm chairing another apology, but this one was simply challenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188008	Mr. Bulj will perform on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188009	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Grumoja, thank you I'd just say that my colleague Križanić is a little underrated, but that doesn't hurt me. The law must be as simple as possible. We prescribe EU directives, regulations, hundreds of pages and only rise on Fridays. Mine's very simple. What is in Hungary. There is no sale to legal and physical persons, foreign persons of agricultural land. It's a very simple law. What is in Hungary is also in Croatia, and in us so much legislation has been complicated that you cannot believe what they are doing. From this complicated legislation comes what we now have in agricultural land, chaos, one circus, one destruction of farmers of villages and peasants. The laws must be simple. It is not enough that colleagues of Križanić just raise their hands on Fridays when they come here, and several regulations, the directive votes here, you remember before that there would be hundreds of kilos of paper in front of us, nor is anyone reading, nor will anyone implement those regulations and directives. But it is important that, at the end of the term, the president of the assembly says we have adopted 1,000 directives and regulations, we have harmonised our legislation, whether it will apply or not, the key question here is that we are discussing the agricultural land that we want to preserve, in particular that which is not being processed, the other way we need to talk about domestic production against GMO products, which, and against glyphosate, I have suggested, is a very important exclusive economic belt, we need to have, energy, telecommunications and that, and that legislation we propose, means these are strategic national interests, an example of the Croatian National Bank and the example of the one that is often mentioned here, the Croatian People's Bank, which is everything but a folk and monopoly, the fear of monopolies mainly foreign companies as I have told Monsanta and others. Therefore, we must protect Croatian peasants, we are MPs, the executive power is lurking with everyone, it is visible, with everyone except those whom the Tribal would protect. And today, when we have a colleague, Grmoja said well, that this, this Law is the simplest, and such laws I want from the Croatian Government, clear and simple, and surely this thing that put into the Constitution of Hungary that it is not complicated, that it is very simply written, in simple language, understandable, and not that it can all interpret the laws in its own way. I gave this colleague Križanić, he knows, and the amendment to the Agricultural Land Act which was not accepted, so it came from when the Agricultural Land Act was passed, then he was still a former minister, Tolusic was a minister, I then gave amendments, unfortunately you didn't accept it then either, but I figured you'd be with time after the cattleman and the manufacturer that you'd protect your production, not that you were importing harmful food, mainly you said you were engaged in pig farming and you said you weren't importing, but here't asking the importers who controlled the soy, this fed soy, whether the pigs were fed, which was treated with a gliphosate surface, whether we have a guarantee of that. We don't. So that's what we're going to do, my people, we're going to do this bad food, and we're afraid to pass a simple law, where Hungary Orban is the river, which we're talking about, and we have people's representatives, so we have nothing. Orban just took care of it. You go buy there, and you'll see if you'll have agricultural land, and he's come in here and he's got capital, all the capital here has come in through the banks, and he'll buy us this clean ecologically preserved land that's gonna cost us, we'll be servants on his land. Our bond in the future will be, they will dig on, on our valley, who will buy strangers if we continue to behave like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188010	Mr. Dobrojevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188011	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, it was not your task to organise a law that could immediately be implemented, but you have pointed out this proposal to a major problem, which should be addressed by those who are able to lead the resort, this is a very important issue, ownership of agricultural land, quality management of this resource, and ultimately the issue of production. We know well that the state of facts regarding agricultural production, food imports, the quality of food placed on the market is not good and that there can be, and should be done much, in fact to the well-being and users, and also to those who produce that food in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188012	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188013	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Dobrović, it is quite clear here that this law is very simple, that is, amending the law, this is an amendment to the article in essence, this is an amendment to the law on agricultural land, so we have nothing to say here. It is very important about ownership to define and protect Croatian peasants and survival, and this is the intensity of European law to keep people alive in rural areas and to produce food, but in us it is the opposite, let us look at Latvia, Lithuania, this Slovakia, let us look at Poland, all tripled, they doubled their production except us. After all, the Hungarians, I repeat, have put this on the level of the Constitution, even in the Constitution, a very simple sentence, legal and physical persons, foreign legal and physical persons, no sale of land, cannot be owned, should not be complicated, but we should not be allowed to speak, a parliamentary representative, who travels by planes very simply... But he doesn't want to talk about it, and now I'm going to do it again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188014	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Now we will speak Club of Representatives, representatives of the Living Wall Club and let's change Croatia, first Mr. Lovrinović, then Mrs. Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188015	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land of fellow MPs Mira Bulja, who is really short, very clear, it is, I would translate it this way, it is one scream, a scream with the intention of protecting this headless sale of everything that is ours, which has been created by generations, and agricultural land is one of the most precious resources precisely for the reason that Croatian land is, even when we compare this with Western European land, still much healthier and more preserved compared to what it is. However, here is this proposal by chance or not, co-insiding with the request of the new Minister of Agriculture that this Law on Land already exists, to complete some cosmetic changes. Now, exactly in March two years ago, we were killing ourselves here by discussing the Agricultural Land Act, and I expected that thousands and thousands of hectares would be allocated, that this would be produced, that we would reduce imports and so on, and so on, but I was bitterly disappointed by respected citizens, probably like you. Why? Because since then, no one has received a hectare of that agricultural land to process, and even those who have advocated the Law then, especially from the ruling coalition, then realized that it is very bad, and they are opposed, however they must not be disturbed because their comrades will partyly send them an inspection, especially to the producers who are here whether, who are big manufacturers, then you will be in trouble afterwards, and you are a colleague of Križanić one of those who is not very pleased, but I congratulate you that you are a producer because producing today is a bloody business, blood is business. But raise that voice freely. In this land the moment you defeat your fear, and we will stand behind you, you understand, the citizens will stand behind you. Well, you know that in your party there are so many workers and breakthroughs, and I congratulate you, you're a producer. Now, that doesn't do any good, agricultural land. Now it's said again like we're going to give but we're going to introduce a system of points you know. And why the points? So you can give it to whoever's got more points, for example. There's a hundred sheep, he'll get 30 points, and somebody else's got 100 sheep and a tractor, he'll get 40 points. But the one with the tractor and 30, 100 sheep, he, he's a member of our party, so he'll get etc. You see, land allocation, incentive, has become a couple of excellence issues of political corruption in the Republic of Croatia, and those capillary ones, you know, capillaries. Incentives are paid per hectare, not on yields, not production, so we import 2 billion and 400 million euro of agricultural products, we export barely a billion and 200. This country that can feed 2 more Republics, you have brought it into this situation and you, not only you but also previous furniture, have brought us into such a situation that from Slavonia which is God's day paradise, a green oasis, to turn into a desert. The Israelites from the desert turn the desert into an oasis, turn it into a green, green oasis. So I take this opportunity to say some more things when it comes to agricultural land. It's not true that the moratorium, you proudly declare here we're not strangers, they're not going to buy 1.7 this year, we're going to do it 3. You know, you look forward to the Croats, so you can't say it. So 33,000 acres of the most fertile country through the criminal lex of Agrokora has already crossed into the hands of foreigners, U.S.-Russian capital, watch out, 33,000 acres of the most fertile country. So it's not true, so it's already done, it's already happening. That's why you should just put it in this, put it in the Constitution, ban the water, the woods, the farmland, it doesn't matter where you're from, buddy, we can do it if we have to explain it a little bit, so the word okay, if you're living here for 10 years. in the Republic of Croatia, if you're going to be 50 years old. You and your family, and we're gonna follow you all the years if you're producing or not, and that's how it's solved in the West, it's nothing new, we just need to take these, their methods that they, they, they forbid us from doing things to do. So, agricultural production when we speak never worse, you see income per hectare in the Republic of Croatia is about EUR 1.620,00, the EU average is somewhere around 2650, and one Netherlands has revenue of EUR 14.200,00, so per hectare, that means that it's highly productive for both our productivity and production every year falls when we talk about it. Now, what are we from the Party to change Croatia here? You know, we're a party of serious people with knowledge, we're not gonna tell hollow stories and bother people to watch TV. So, we're going to pay our revenues per hectare, and the big producers are not going to get any more incentives like they are, we're going to set up a threshold after which they won't have or will have a miserable one, but we're going to focus on small producers, the OPGs, not because they're going to become big companies, but we're going to tie them to where they live, the village, rural development. I remember always my friend from around Vinkovci who sometimes when he told me to listen to Ivan, those two sows that my parents always fed, they fed me and schooled me, watch out for two sows. You could have sold everything, we could have reintroduced, so modern cooperative, all those little ones would have to be able to sell to that system, and those products would have to come to a shelf supermarket that didn't pay, they didn't pay 10 years. kunas of government taxes, and the cities here look, open new centres, and 10 years. business with loss. So you see that, yes, that this is breaking down, the state, is breaking down the country. So you can tell that story to the little kids, but there are people here who have mastery of knowledge, they have information, you can't tell us stories. Well, we dear citizens can't do anything without you. The time comes when you have one decision, only one dilemma, one decision, will you continue to support this destructive incompetent policy, in fact it is not incompetent, it is highly capable for itself because they are their own goal, so that they deliver us all out, that we go, they think that only then, but only then will it fail because they have no one to take from. So I urge you to finally end this agony and that we can live on our own in our country, and in particular we will stimulate people who live on their work, and these other bastards should simply be dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188016	Thank you. Mr. Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188017	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues. Will this year's ruling allow the most fertile country to be sold into invaluable foreigners? If you want, then the citizens of this country need to know who allowed it and don't get away with having to, nobody has to sell their country to anyone if they don't want to. They didn't give Hungarians, they didn't give neighbors to Slovenes, so who are we to give this country into invaluable foreigners? And we didn't allow that to happen to our citizens who had to leave their hearth because of that same fact. You drove them away to give to strangers. The number indicator of the disease which in the case of agriculture is chronic and has unfortunately entered the thermal phase is the fact that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries of the Union in which it has been in the past 10 years. reduce the value of agricultural production, and in particular the sadness that this is happening and in the productions in which we have so far achieved self-sufficiency such as egg production, milk, potatoes. There are three national resources that we so little worry about, which are water, air and agricultural land. While there are still warnings of harmful phenomena for water and air, agricultural land is as if no one cares. And as time moves away from the Living Wall, we are increasingly convinced that the state apparatus of any previous ruling system does not care to resolve this issue. Topics from the agricultural sector do not win elections in Croatia. Of course, that's not why we're not talking about it. Since land prices are the most affected by the law of supply and demand in Croatia, the value of land has been significantly reduced due to the long-standing wanderings in the agrarian measures of the competent ministry, unsettled land books, large fragmentation of agricultural areas, uncompetitive and non-profitable production due to excessive taxes. Unprepared entry of food producers into the EU resulted in a decline in production in all major sectors and large imports from more orderly and better-led markets. Because of this, our farmers have very low purchasing power against EU farmers. All of this resulted in a major outflow of residents from Slavonia, where those who were interested in agriculture could not come to the lease of a state country. For years, OPG organisations have warned that neither the state knows how much land it has, and now it has no people to process it. This year, the moratorium for selling the country to foreigners, although it is a public secret that numerous foreign companies are now buying free land from private owners in Slavonia. We are aware that, under the EU accession treaty, we would have to make land sales possible this year, but if we follow trends, we see that, for example, Hungary has prevented the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, not only legally but also by changing the constitution. Slovenia has a provision according to which one who wants to buy land must be a resident of Slovenia for at least 5 years or must have a registered agricultural holding or certain restrictions related to the size of the land. We are aware of the fact that the Austrian or French peasant will not buy land here to process it, will be bought by concerts dealing with the production of large, agronomic giants, and no places of surprise since the collapse of a production-market system in the late 1980s did not find an effective substitute at the time when we were able to create agricultural policy on our own. from isolation to EU accession and according to some projections, this will continue until a new system is created within agriculture. But none of the parties that have ruled so far will be deserved, not one minister so far, but the economic logic of the remaining producers and some new policies expected soon. In Croatia you still do not know with certainty how many countries there are, who manages them and who pays the rent. Agriculture is our most devastationed economic sector. One reason, but not the only reason for the dramatic reduction in agricultural production is the lack of adequate land management. When we joined the Union, we received a seven-year delay in liberalising the agricultural land market that we should have used to address the situation that would result in an increase in productivity and prices and agricultural land. But since we haven't done anything in the past year, we can expect an attack by strangers from their perspective on a very cheap country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188018	Thank you too, Mrs. Sabolek. Now he's at work, Mr. Allen Prelec, who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188019	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, Proposer, this is whether this law will be passed or not we will support it in any case, not because it is good or bad, but because it is a good intention. This is the most important thing, and I think we should protect the Croatian national treasure, which is the country anyway. I have been in this assembly since I was 7th, and here I have listened to all kinds of speakers and ministers and prime ministers and representatives who talked about the country and how Croatian agriculture should be better, but of all this, the result is that today we have Croatian agriculture in worse shape than we had 5 years ago, and 5 years ago it was worse than it was 10 years ago. And the fact is, every new law somehow makes it seem that agriculture is in worse, worse shape. We've changed the Agricultural Land Act 19 times. And is it better? No, I don't. It seems like we're trying to make it worse and worse. And today's speakers have all confirmed it. But I haven't heard one of them say they don't advocate better agriculture in Croatia, none of them said that, and I believe that we all have good intentions, only the question is whether we have a good way to get to Croatian agriculture, better Croatian agriculture. Should we sell land to strangers? I'm definitely against it. Can we stop that? I hope we can prevent it for the next three years. And what happens after those three years? Now that would be a key question. I don't think a Croatian farmer will be a better farmer if he doesn't have a country. I have a good example in my community where one agricultural here, and I know it's been on my knees for 10 years. He was a cattleman, the milk producer was on his knees 10 years ago. Why? Because he sold milk to Dukat. The sale of milk to Ducatu could not survive, as many cattlemen today cannot survive. About six to seven years ago, he started producing cheese, cream, milk products, and now he's got a few milks, and he's never been better. Like many cattlemen in Croatia, bright examples that have better and better results, more and more milk, have observed results. Why is that? Because a man chose to fight all the problems that exist and fought. There are three beautiful children, three beautiful children and they see the future in their agriculture. Why am I saying this now? What difference does it make? It's all right. Because last year, this man bought 50 acres of land from the Pliva factory. As Pliva became the owner of the country now, it doesn't matter, I don't go into details, but he bought 50 hectares of land, paid 500,000 euros. For one such small producer, EUR 500,000 is a major uncertainty. But they consciously entered that risk because they see the future in the production of milk for themselves and for their family. It's an honor, it's courage, but it's also a way for Croatian farmers to work. Ensure yourself permanent production. Permanent production can only be provided with land ownership. And there's a key to what I'd set up for a thesis. If we want the Croatian farmer to survive I think he should own the country, he must own the country. We own 830 hectares of state agricultural land, as far as I know it's the exact data, here. Of those 800,000 hectares, only 400,000 hectares are under some form of contract, left unprocessed, unknown. If you could just imagine that 400,000 hectares that have nothing, or 800, 400, 440,000 left that are not under any rent, that we are going to sell to Croatian farmers. Not to anyone, but to those who are farmers, those who will produce milk will be placed on the market, not only to come to support and manipulate that land. 800, 440,000 acres. I said how much with only 50 acres a man succeeded, hired people, had 20 employees and managed to produce milk, cheese and survived on the market, took a loan of EUR 500,000. So the key question is, can our farmer work in suspense? He can't. He must own the country so he can build his own future. The state has a country, I will now ask the question, why the state does not sell to farmers, Croatian farmers the country under certain conditions. Here, if you're making milk, if you have cows, we'll sell you land, but if you turn into a construction contractor and you want to build a building land and this apartment, then we'll take that land from you. I'm a bit of a cartoon now, but that's what it's all about. We can't ask farmers to be farmers, to take risks, and they don't have land. We're renting them, maybe they'll change in 10 or 5 years this law and the laundry won't have land. They're looking for security, let's give them security. I am in favour of selling to a Croatian farmer who knows what to do with the land, who has a future, who has a family, who wants to deal with it, and not mix it, let's sell him land and let him do agriculture. It's the key to everything. And then we'll probably have concrete results in Croatian agriculture, not that every new minister has worse and worse results, that we here talk and everyone smokes at the same time in the end. Here, and colleagues Križanić and Bulj, we all say we want better agriculture. I'm sure both the secretary of state and his associate want better agriculture. And did we get better agriculture? We didn't. So let's work out how we're gonna get better agriculture. Not long ago, the representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber spoke with the Ministry of Agriculture and spoke about the strategy that Croatian agriculture will look like. Do you know who the representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture were? It was the ones who were usually renters of agricultural land. You know who they are? This was sent to me by people who heard it. So the interests of Croatian farmers were spoken of by Antun Vrakić, Matija Brlošić, Zvonko Širjan, you know how many they own, how many agricultural, state-owned agricultural land, Antun Vrakić 400 hectares, Matija Brlosić 250 hectares, Zvonko Širjan 1700 hectares. And they were saying that they should continue to rent to those who are former owners for the next 25 years. They spoke of Croatian interests. They may have thought of Croatian interests, but they worked on their interests. I read this to you not because I attended that meeting, but because people sent it to me and asked me to read it here. They were talking about their interests. I've read how many acres they have on the lease, and they're asking for all those tenants to extend it to 25 years. In whose interest did they speak? I also have another memo that speaks of the town of Velika Kopanica, which I have already asked for an answer from the Ministry of Agriculture. In which HDZ is chief, but whether HDZ is a male, could be a SDP or an HSS officer is so little important, those who are interested are interesting. And he's got this chief of staff on the lease state land, not only does he own a state-owned land, but his councilmen also have a government land to rent, and opposition councilmen are trying to clean things up, not a lot of them, I can't. These are things that must not happen in our country, I say it is not important in general whether they are the heads of HDZ, SDPs, HSS, they are those who are in that party and for that reason we are destroying Croatian agriculture. Someone here mentioned that we've given the opportunity to have local self-government heads with the state's land, I'm for it, and I'm the head of the local self-government unit, clearly I don't have a single hectare in my lease, I don't think I can think of any, nor will my children and my friends be able to compete for renting agricultural land in my municipality, but I'm asking why these things that are immoral we don't solve, why we report it to the DORH, why people doubt politics, why? Because we have examples that are bad examples, because we have people who are interested in it all together, and that's why agriculture won't be better for us, so when young people see such a thing leaving Croatia, we need to prevent it. We should all work in the interest of Croatian agriculture, in the interest of the Croatian state, and we don't work anymore, we don't pass the laws that are in that interest. I know that here, now it turns out that there are four of us here, talking about important things for the Croatian state, whether anyone listens or doesn't listen, telling the secretary of state, and asking him simply to do these things that I just mentioned, to investigate. If we have good, honest, honest intentions to really do something to make this Croatia better, to make young people feel that Croatian politics, politicians sitting here in the Parliament or in the government want a good Croatian politician, a Croatian farmer, a young man, and that these things do not happen, that those who negotiate on their own behalf are doing so under the cover of Croatian interests. Here we are in the SDP to support this Act, not because it is enforceable, not because it is better than Hungarian or worse than Hungarian, but because it makes sense. I would like that not only after three years, and it will be three years soon, for the Croatian country to be in Croatian hands, and most importantly in the right hands and for good to be produced on the Croatian country, which will deliver concrete results for better Croatian agriculture. That's why we're gonna raise our hands for this law, and I believe we all feel that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188020	Mr. Bully asked for a word on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188021	Oh, I'll just take a minute... On this important subject, whether or not I'm the Proposer, but it's a significant topic, so whoever suggested it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would like to thank all the clubs that supported it, and obviously everyone except the HDZ Club, I believe that by the end, they will also find a model and a way for the Croatian peasant to own Croatian agricultural land. This is both the intensity of both the European Union and what they are propagating and what they want people to live in the country and to deal with agriculture, and not sell land and I expect that we will all achieve it together. Here I thank all the clubs, here to my last colleague from the SDP, to my home club, to the Living Wall, to change Croatia, to the Sovereignists and, the club of sovereigns Dr. Hasanbegovic and General Glasnović, to the Clubs, I don't know that he would forget anyone, Mr. Zhagar, who is on behalf of the HSU Club, and all the other clubs that are within that club of the Independents, the New Politics would thank you for saying that here, however, my proposal has offered one debate. I'm sorry that during this debate there have been some little disagreements that have been directed perhaps from this important topic, but mostly I have to be the same to our goal that the current management of agricultural land is not... Good results, we are becoming larger and larger importers, less and less exporters, our agricultural production is going down, and we are moving villages, which means the opposite of what the European Union is declaring. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect you to offer these important secretaries, I know that in politics it is difficult, but you will also offer a model and a way how you, if you don't want to implement this, and find as the Ministry and Government how to implement this, and you see that all opposition clubs are unique, that is, most opposition clubs, except for the current HDZ Club, that you will give or through a law that must be as simple as this, just so that it is not as complicated as in us by the usual complicated laws, so nobody knows who the triba executes, who triba sanction, who the triba, who the triba, is, in fact, basically nothing is known to us. Here's my thanks to all the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188022	Now it's Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mr. Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188023	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues for how few of us are left. Now let me say a few words about the availability of agricultural land and some thesis that you could speak in person, one is on behalf of the club, and the other is talking about your own personal attitude. So, the Agricultural Land Act has been in force for more than two years, it's in a large part good, it had good intentions, and especially in this part when we wanted to bring down some provisions on, to mayors and mayors or local self-government. By decentralisation we wanted to make not only functional but also fiscal decentralisation, which was good. But now we've seen some things with this time-out that aren't good, we've seen that they're not good, and we need to change that. The provision on land maximum leases that have never been discussed in this assembly has never been discussed, but we have received an amendment on how it can, that the mayor may decide or the mayor is not good, is not good. I was the mayor myself and the mayor, someone here was talking about the chief having a deputy and there's 15 other people in the council, that's not good, that should do HS. It is not good that there are no prescribed time limits for sanctions for mayors and mayors, or for units of local self-government not implementing the law. We have two full years here now we're discussing this today we wouldn't be discussing. That's why it happened more than two years ago today. Since the law entered into force, we have the situation that 410 JLS have submitted programmes to the ministry, out of which 210 were approved, 11 tenders have been opened. Now I'm asking the public and all our commissioners and mayors, why aren't the competitions called? Why aren't they in 2? made, made a available plan? It's devastating and inadmissible. On the one hand, we're looking for an extension of the moratorium, on the one hand, we're looking for an extension of the moratorium to the foreigners, for the sale of land to foreigners, and on the other hand, for 2 g. We are unable to conduct a tender for the purchase of land. It could be handled by colleagues Bulj, just like Croatian farmers, in a way 25+25 if we are talking about renting, years or buying. With the intensity we've worked so far, we'll never put the country in office, ever. And if this moratorium ever happens again, we spend three years. Who guarantees that we will be in 3 years. Make... plans to make land available to all Croatian countries under the control of Croatian people, any legal or physical persons? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the law isn't a sacred letter, we have two years away, we've seen the effects, some segments that we don't think are good should be changed. Surely one of the disputed provisions is precisely the possibility that the JLS leader should be given a maximum of land. Yeah, that's one of the controversial possibilities for sure. Secondly, in many cases, then these JLS leaders have a problem, they won't have to be put into the role of arbiter, they won't have to make ungrateful decisions for the local population because the council may have 10 or 15 council members who have each of their own personal interests. Furthermore, the protection of previous owners and tenants who regularly pay rent more than 5 years, whose agriculture is too heavy an activity, as well as the right farmers. That's what we'd like to discuss once, what a real farmer is. I'm not for that, my dear friend, you've talked about it or someone before I don't know you, to share farmers in large and small. On O.P.G.s, cooperatives or companies. I didn't eat both of them very important, extremely important to us. The right farmer for me is that farmer regardless of whether he has one, one or a thousand employees, who employs people one or a thousand, creates added value, has a reference contribution per unit of surface, pays taxes and contributions to this country and must be efficient, productive and competitive, it is a real farmer. They're all important and important factors in agriculture, but we can't and we won't be chasing hobby and agriculture. If I personally have a home 300... Then it is not certainly the interest of the Croatian state to deal with such hobbyists, it is my hobby. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the world today, agriculture is agribusiness and industrial production, regardless of whether it is a small or large economy. In this way, when we set up agriculture, then we will be both competitive and productive. When we talk about spacekeepers, we have to take care of them too, but as a social category, and it has to be, they must be fought by the Ministry of Social Welfare. I suggested that when this law was passed, young families who want to deal with agricultural production would be provided 10 hectares in a permanent lease or lease. They can buy tractors so they can get on them, they can get a loan and if they are engaged in agricultural production 10.g. Or more, on it, this country acquires ownership rights, then it's the interest of our country to the guardians of space. That's how we're gonna secure the spacekeepers, that's our country, and that's our kids. They used to say the DORH was against it. Who's the DORH? Why would the DORH be against us providing our children with living conditions in our country? Who's the DORH? First of all, we need to calm down current quality owners who pay rent, have a reference amount of at least 50% more than receiving incentives and agriculture is their heavy activity, and are implementing the economic programme. Yeah, not the ones that are in possession of 15 years old. And that's why they pick up the incentives, not the ones that have the production. All the rest of the country is directed towards the unearthed cattle, regardless of the municipal boundaries, because they create added value, not that corn silencing in the Croatian state is produced for the Slovenian biogas plant, such a country would be taken away. The cattlemen give added value and the multiplier are times 5. As for sales, I believe we've determined maximum per unit, per JLS 25% and 50 hectares. So if we have allowed one legal or physical person to buy up to 50 acres, why limit it to a 10 hectare particle? I'm even talking about what you're saying, and now I guess for the first time in this assembly, I'm talking about my personal attitude, I'm not talking about the HDZ attitude, that I'm about to sell the Croatian country to Croatian citizens, all the time I've been saying that. Why limit the limit, anyway? For what? Now that we have a moratorium for the sale of land to foreigners, we forbid the sale of our Croatian citizens, I have been against it since the beginning. Resolve co-ownership urgently, urgently resolve co-ownership between private persons and the state in such a way that co-ownership is always resolved for the benefit of private persons, which is why the state should be in agreement with a private person. Let the evaluator come to assess the land and the state, and he has the right to the law; let him go to the tender that he who is in possession shall have the right to the right to the right to do so. That's the only logical thing, no matter how much. Under urgent netting, the lease payment system between JLS and the ministry and urgently terminate contracts for non-payers. We cannot afford to have 1,000 hectares in the Croatian state today for which rent is not paid, but incentives are collected for it, but that is a fact and that is so. Only with the firm and rapid implementation of these few provisions would they in the first round solve the availability of a large part of the land, and place this important resource in the function of legal and physical persons but Croatian citizens. Analyzing all of the above, we can determine that the units of local self-government in these two years have not fully implemented the provisions of the agricultural land law, so this assembly and this government must react urgently, with partial changes and additions to the new law, so that we do not get through the next 3 years of moratorium requested by this government and which we will certainly get, there is no reason not to win, and that in the next three years, we do not put all land resources at our disposal to Croatian citizens. Then we'll all be responsible together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188024	Mr. Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188025	Dear counterpart Križanić, I disagree with you in the part where you said you should not allow local self-government leaders to dispose of the country. I don't agree with that. Why? Because as a leader, I consider myself capable enough, first of all with my services to be able to do well, but that there are bad examples it is certain that there are bad examples, but we must punish that. Are we allowed to be members of the Supervisory Board as parliamentary representatives? No, I don't. If it were someone, he'd be punished. Well, that's the key. So we have to build a legal framework to punish those who work with personal interests, whether they themselves, whether their councilmen and that's the point. The Croats are allowed everything until something is banned, so let's ban it. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188026	Answer, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188027	... We agree, sometimes we disagree. [[Specially enabled.]] So I didn't say that I was in favor of making land available not to the JLS, the chiefs, that's exactly what I've always been for. And now I think that's good, because that's because they know the situation best in their field, but I said that I'm against the fact that JLS leaders bring the maximum of land. Against it I am, that is what I said, it should be brought by a legislator, by us in this Croatian Assembly, that it is you who are now or we who will eventually be second leaders of JLS that we have no problem with then discussing with our people or with our councilmen who are who they are. That's the word, that's why I was talking. The sanctions that we haven't, we don't have any regulatory mechanisms for those commissioners who don't enforce the law, none.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188028	Thank you. And Mrs. Machkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188029	Here, my colleague Križanić I am the head of the unit of local self-government and I agree with the gentleman to make available, yes, and it is required to return to the local self-government units, but I am convinced that you will agree with me that with regard to the priorities defined by the Agricultural Land Act that it is possible to do so as much as possible, it is never ideal, but by order of the championship it is possible for us today to fight that local people in rural border areas still get agricultural land, and said in the priorities that it is a local unit residence that cannot be registered today or tomorrow, that it is the one who regularly pays agricultural land, that it is a cattleman who lacks a certain amount of land so far which it is carried out, that it means in the advantages of a young farmer up to 41 years who also has a residence Therefore, the order of the championship is precisely defined and allowed for domestic people to still get land. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188030	Thank you, Mrs. Machkovic. Thank you very much. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188031	I agree with you all, in everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188032	Well, I give you my word, Mr. Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree with you in everything and I repeat again, the availability of the mayors and the mayors and the JLS that, only the problem, the priorities that we have, this law has passed, this law has passed, this law has passed, this assembly has passed a law, by which the mayors and the mayors should dispose of the state land, not theirs, the state country. As a result, this law should, in my view, make a land max, because the chief does not confront and does not put himself in an unenviable position if he has to make invisible decisions among his people, only because of that, and priorities and everything else remains the same as it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188034	Thank you very much. State Secretary Mr. Tugomir Majdak of the Ministry of Agriculture will say the final word and opinion, a final opinion of the ministry following the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188035	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will repeat the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which also proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land submitted by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Not only because this is contrary to the EU's legislative frameworks, which the Republic of Croatia has committed to signing the Treaty of Accession of the EU, which is indeed the case, but because under the Law on Agricultural Land, the current law, the rightholders of ownership on land are prescribed that they cannot be foreign legal and natural persons unless the international contract and the special regulation provide otherwise. Exceptionally, standing legal and natural persons can acquire ownership rights on agricultural land of inheritance, subject to reciprocity as it has been pointed out many times today. Also, Croatia has received the possibility of 7 years on the moratorium by signing an access contract, the moratorium is for sale to foreigners and the possibility of extending this moratorium for another 3 years. So, in due time, as the Government has announced, Croatia has submitted a request for the extension of the moratorium, here, the esteemed representative Križanić has also cited some of our foundations on the basis of our request and the EU Commission's response will follow in June and there is no reason why it will not be positive or to extend the moratorium for the sale of the country to residents in the Republic of Croatia for another 3 years. I will also remind, as it was also stated here, that the law, the current Agricultural Land Act, prescribed certain restrictions for the sale of agricultural land, as you have repeatedly pointed out by you esteemed parliamentary representatives. Therefore, after the possibility of selling land to agricultural land in 2013 since the former Minister of Jakovina, this law prescribes the possibility of selling up to 25% of the total area of state agricultural land in its territory to local self-government units. Furthermore, the provisions of Art. Article 59(2) The 60th century. The law also provides for restrictions relating to the size of particles which may be subject to sale. The Ministry has already done, the Ministry of Agriculture has already done, the second session of the Committee for the Amendment and Complementary of the Law on Agricultural Land, and it is this criterion that we are considering, and we are of the view that, in accordance with the proposals made by the representatives of the units of local self-government, farmers, but also us in the ministry, that we are flexible in a certain way, the possibility of selling agricultural land and that this maximum and ultimately not be related to agricultural particles, i.e. to being linked to the level of users. It was also said here when we talk about the amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, the current law, related, issues were related to the maximum area that units of local self-government or can be prescribed. Also, this committee chaired by the minister, I have to correct the esteemed representative of Bulja, discuss the possibility in and that part in some way balanced access to all units of local self-government in Croatia, and they do not have the same agricultural land fund or form of facilities in the continental, Pannonian part of the Republic, relative to the coastal, Dalmatian part of the Republic or Istria. And you're right, Mr. Bulj, this particular data is the 431 program so far submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture's adoption program. 261 has been approved, not below 50% but is 60%, covering approximately 205,000 hectares, 44 notices of a public tender for rent have been delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture, covering 11 thousand hectares, you have good information. 4 decisions on tendering for sale, 12 decisions on the selection of the most favourable offer for rent. If we combine this with current surfaces in the ARCOD system that are at 250 thousand hectares of state agricultural land. It is to be expected that we will meet this objective that we have defined by the programmes of availability and new law to increase the volume and records of state agricultural land in the administration of these available programmes. So they're going to be far larger than these 250 thousand acres. And in which you are confirmed by your thesis, yes, unsettled land books, property-legal relations in the southern part of the Republic of Croatia are precisely the reason why most of these 44, or almost all, notices about the opening of tenders for purchases from the Pannonian part of the Republic of Istria, while other units of local self-government from the territory of Dalmatia from the coastal part are still at the stage of defining their quality programmes of availability, i.e. State agricultural land. And finally, a few words about the OPG Act, you also mentioned some of the things he brought. Of course, I will not list all the benefits he has brought, but for the first time, it will be made public and will be from the OPG register, updating the situation in the register of agricultural holdings, i.e. farmers, records of the production resources themselves, sales and services. Also, the protection of part of the income from the exercise, the introduction of a protected account as such, but also two items which may not be familiar with the Croatian public, which is the regulation of the OPG’s obligation to the pension system, i.e. the prevention of retrograde collection of pension insurance, the SOPG, means self-sustaining family holding may be released voluntarily from this system, as well as the regulation of the OPG and SOPG's obligations towards health insurance defined by the Law of 1 July 2013 and the Ministry of Agriculture with the Ministry of Health reached an agreement to implement, to say, the forgiveness of the amount of 375 million kunas to the OPGs which had the obligation so far. So, this law has passed a certain reform, according to the OPGs is being treated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture in a different way than it was before, and it will definitely, already have brought a lot of quality things, but in the future we expect further quality shifts from the OPG which, three or four years ago, means in 2016 until 2020 we record an increase in the number of OPGs by 20 thousand, while in the entry in... means the area recorded to support the period 2016 to 2020, which is an increase of 32,000 hectares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188036	Mr. Prelicu replica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State one question or request on behalf of the units of local self-government who are... requested, is it possible to enable one-year lease contracts? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In some cases, in exceptional cases, when the spatial plan turns agricultural land into a building area, and this construction area is not yet possible to build, agricultural areas remain unused, so is it possible to make this one-year contract possible? Is it not possible in this right now, under this law, and I say in exceptional cases when it is so in the spatial plan to allow the agricultural area to be used but not long-term, I don't know, after two, three years we can get a building permit and put it for a purpose. Here's the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188039	I thank Mr. Parliamentarian Prelec for this question. If the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia, it is possible, with the agreement of the Ministry of State Assets, to conclude a contract for up to ten years, and if it is the part of the extension that I did not highlight through my exposure, the extension of provisional use on the basis of the existing contracts or contracts under the laws before which they were adopted and if that temporary use contract has expired, it may be extended for up to two years, or until the execution of the tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188040	Thank you very much. And now, in the end, Mr. Miro Bulj will speak on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188041	Thank you very much. My colleagues and my colleague, the esteemed secretary. The intensity of my proposal was quite clear that something, that the state of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia and the management of agricultural land is in a catastrophic situation, and the results are visible. Now I'm going back to the beginning,... my debate, however, if there is such a conclusion from this debate that it is seen that agricultural land, I am talking about 700 thousand,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A hectare of unprocessed land, of which about 370,000 hectares of land owned by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia, not to process, clean organic agricultural, preserved agricultural land, means something is not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that even the law on availability means the property hasn't given any results, it's visible, I'm not going to repeat the facts that you've repeated, essentially they overlap somewhere, that simply transferring from the government to the County, that it's a brake, so local self-government can't, just can't... You said that by what law, which I have suggested is now in the Law, of course, because the moratorium until 01.07., with the extension of the three years you asked for, means of course that it is now in the law, I suggest that it be permanent in the Law of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Hungarians did, that Orban introduced it and, if he can have it, it seems to me even the constitutional provision, the amendment of the Constitution that they did, irrelevantly, it is for that, what he signed with the European Union in advance... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was simply in the Constitution that it made it impossible to sell to foreign legal and physical persons, states and those who have a company in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the deadlines, of course they can buy it regardless of their origin, so that, otherwise, this Law did not, I did not, I did not, but I am simply saddened by the fact that when I see that people from these areas are evicting, when I see that cereals, that is, import the most cereal products, when we see that we import dairy products, when we see that we import pork, when we see who knows who is fed with food from the surface of the soybeans treated with glyphosate, so I also gave the laws on the import of GMO products, transportation and trade, so I gave the Law on the ban on glyphosate, it does not bother, and in Austria, Minister Vučković did not mind that you to know that the prus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I would once again say that I expect you to accept this Law, and mostly the two MPs that are left, and of course chairing that he, uh, that photograph, would be photographed... Okay, thank you, auditorium, is it, more for the auditorium than for me? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188042	Thank you, too. I now conclude the debate, thank you for the contribution you've made. Tomorrow we will continue with the Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040 with a view to 2070, Mr. Bulj, from 2040 to 2070, so you know that we are here, to be here. .../Laughter./... The session was interrupted at 19.01 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-04-0.u188043	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. No. 663. The promoter is MP Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Land is not adopted. We'll go back to that method now. Who's against that conclusion? Who's restrained? And who's in? Thank you. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, and the result is 90 for, 4 abstentions, 31 against. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with work, today's first point: - Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040, with a view to 2070, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 14. The laws on climate change and the protection of the ozone layer. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, the esteemed Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go.
