ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5388	Now it will be Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulic's position as a representative of the Homeland Movement Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, we have witnessed an unprecedented cynicism and haughtiness in Croatian politics these days. I'd like to look back at some of the current phenomena that unfortunately confirm it. After the outbreak of the Janaf affair that has been creating new headlines for weeks, the parliamentary opposition has agreed on the establishment of an investigative commission that would be tasked with examining the work of state institutions including the DORH and USKOK. Prime Minister Plenkovic then rejected the initiative by saying the parliament already has the opportunity to discuss all important issues, but the question then is why HDZ and partners have been delaying the debate on the work of the judiciary and the DORH for 3 weeks. We're now learning that there's going to be a two-week break. Why, for what? The Croatian public should know that the parliamentary majority has great opportunities in determining the schedule of this high house and is obviously ready to abuse these opportunities. What they are doing is not in line with the interests of citizens who rightly seek answers. Yesterday, the prime minister said he wants to strengthen state institutions, and systematically disrespects the Croatian Parliament. I will remind myself of the government's behaviour and the SDP when citizens asked for a referendum on fairer electoral law. Again, we have been given a blatant refusal with very sloppy arguments, apparently the prime minister thinks he knows better than the citizens themselves who can represent their interests in the assembly and has assessed that change would endanger his power. But that's exactly what Croatia needs, reducing the power of our politicians because their decisions cause great damage, unfortunately. We have already had to remove the immunity of three MPs, however, it is then declared by fighting corruption. Unfortunately, corruption and clientelem are still a big problem with us, it's undeniable. The prime minister's stability has not eradicated these phenomena, his government has actually confirmed Kovacevic as the head of JANAF, argues he cannot know where his ministers are going and that he does not see anything controversial in the gathering in the post. But what does such behavior mean for institutions? Is that how to strengthen them? Yes, that business is being negotiated in a private club where money is being shared, so that we can take the prime minister's statements seriously when he's so inconsistencies. Citizens should always judge politicians by concrete actions, not by what they say because what they say on a daily basis can be reduced to regular spin. Perhaps our prime minister inspires the novel of British writer Orwell "1984", which described a futuristic totalitarian society whose owners use the latest methods of manipulation to keep the masses under control. We can only guess how much corruption there is in public enterprises and institutions. Sometimes some cases get public, but usually they don't. I'll remind you, for example. Talks between Minister Beroša and one doctor about the head of the hospital at the Sister of Mercy in Zagreb. This is how competitions are held in Croatia, and that is why our people are rightly bitter. There's no justice, we're not all equal. Why, the question arises, why do you even report to the competition when everything is agreed in advance in the HDZ. The honourable MPs and MPs in the end would like to say about the concept of the new sovereignty we heard at the government's presentation. I asked the prime minister a question about the responsibility of communist China in the outbreak of the crown crisis, so he replied that thanks to its excellent relations with the Chinese leadership of the Croatian hospital, they have the necessary medical equipment. The question is, is it commendable or defeative? Turns out we depend on that country for some necessary products. I don't think that addiction is very good at the time of the pandemic. Is that perhaps in line with the principles of new sovereignty? On the occasion of a visit to US Secretary of State Dubrovnik, he reiterated his commitment to China by saying that he is our bigger trading partner, but he did not say that we should export more to the United States than to China and that the balance sheet clearly shows that China has the greatest benefit from this trade. I'll do it again. Emphasise our national interest [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Is to cultivate better relations with America [[Now don't, Mr. Bartulica.]] No matter who sat in the White House. [[I can't take it anymore.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5390	No matter if you sat in the White House I have to stick to the time... Yeah, but not from me, but... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I owe you one. I owe you one. I owe you one. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And then I gave you 10 seconds... I'll say it again, some of the MPs were distracting you from the audience, so I stopped that distraction with the bell, so I gave you another 10 seconds more because I interrupted you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay? Because I got them, did you get it? ... All right, all right. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And I'll tell you later if you haven't figured it out, I'll talk to you later. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5431	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia, the EU and the entire globe of the Earth were affected by an unknown virus called Covid-19, which has caused many of our fellow citizens fear, anxiety, discomfort. He then began to act at the daily level of the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia, which twice daily informed the general public through the media of the situation regarding the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic to the Republic of Croatia. However, as far as Covid-19 and the Civil Protection Staff are concerned, the body that should always keep a cold head, not the body that has made so many contradictory decisions in the last 6 months that are killing themselves and what is worst, I fear that such decisions in the near future will lead to a collective madness. I am the head of the Civil Protection Headquarters of the city of Vukovar, and I can make it plain and clear that the decisions made at the state headquarters level are so refuting themselves that it has already become a major circus. So let me remind you, in March 24th, one of the leaders of Krunoslav Capak declares if you are healthy go to the store, wearing masks has no effect, masks have more psychological significance. All the less than six months after this same Krunoslav Capak speaks masks will have to be worn in all the closed spaces. - Mrs. Crescent. In April of this year, Markotic declares that self-insulation offenders will be considered bioterrorists. A month after that same lady. Markotic declares that those who are in self-insulation and have no symptoms, if they put a mask on their face can go free to vote and that there should be no problem. We remember the decisions when we local headquarters leaders had to give several hundred passes to our citizens on a daily basis, that there were police patrols at the exits and entrances to the city, which is unimaginable today, and which can become normal again in 2-3 months. Let us remember the decision when catering facilities and cafes are banned after midnight because the crown is obviously no longer available after midnight. He doesn't exist until midnight anymore. Remember the decision when children of elementary schools have to be separated today in their classrooms, not to interfere with other classes, they have to go to school at different times on different entrances with masks on their faces, and these same children come on the same bus regardless of which class they come to that same school. Remember the decision when kindergarten children had to be separated from each other in the sense that they should not be mixed within groups, within the kindergarten itself, and these same children play by, on children's playgrounds or on the street after graduation. Let's remember the decision when a few days ago it's forbidden to have weddings after 12 o'clock, after midnight, when dancing at wedding parties is forbidden except for the newlyweds. Remember the decision of a few days ago when the hosts were ordered that tables should be separated 3 meters from each other, and that at the same table there could be 3 different persons 30 centimeters away from each other and a series of illogicalities in the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. Corona exists, she has certain consequences, and she doesn't need to run away from it, but making decisions ad hoc from today to tomorrow that are killing themselves, which are not working things out, it just doesn't have any purpose. With decisions like this, as I said at the beginning of the exhibition, the Civil Protection Centre will lead to the collective madness of the entire people and the questionable mental health of the entire people. So it's high time they started making their own decisions. that have a foothold in common sense. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5432	Thank you, too. - Here you go, Mrs. President. Katarina Nemet, who will be the position of the IDS representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5447	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, a colleague from our club, IDS, referred to the reportedly completed proposal for a national development strategy in Croatia by 2030, which has not been officially published yet, but has obviously been brought to light by some media. The first views of our club on the strategy proposal, so you heard yesterday and I will remind you on this occasion that it is an extremely important document that will largely determine the quality of life of today's and future generations in Croatia. In practice, the strategy will be the main basis for all other sectoral documents and, consequently, the withdrawal of funds from EU funds in the next seven years. Already, the sparrows on the border know that Croatia will theoretically account for 22 billion euros and how much will eventually be the amount that we will know of and manage to use, it will show time. This will depend, of course, on quality-prepared and enforceable strategic documents, but also on concrete projects and programmes that will be run for EU budget funding. One of these strategic documents that is also being prepared by the working group headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic is also the National Recovery and Resistance Plan whose first drafts are announced to be completed during October, followed by consultations with the European Commission. The document is particularly important because it will specifically define the first projects to be financed from the agreed EUR 22 billion from the EU register. Croatia, as well as other EU members, has of course high hopes of the recovery and resilience mechanism as the main driver of economic and other recovery under the Next Generation of the EU instrument, which should help Member States to come out stronger and more resilient from the current crisis caused by the coronary pandemic. The emphasis will be on financial support for overcoming the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, but so on. Green and digital transition as the EU's leading development guidelines for the next generation. In order to be able to run for support from this EU mechanism at all, it is one of the preconditions that projects have full documentation and are ready to be implemented in early 2021, and that the government, i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds, will include them in the national programme. I would therefore like to point out here that the Istrian County and its cities have already prepared documentation for 58 such projects of a total value greater than EUR 252 million, whose realization would significantly reflect further raising the quality of life in the Istrian County. I stress that it is a well-prepared and well-developed strategic project that has long been outlined in the development plans of the county and cities, and can practically go into realisation tomorrow. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Plenkovic to include projects from Istria in the national plan, and to enable Istria and Croatia to withdraw as much funds from this fund as possible. I dare say that the Istrian County has proved on many occasions that the locomotive is the development of Croatia as a whole, and that the progress of Istria is beneficial to the whole country. We expect the Croatian government to recognise and appreciate this on this occasion by putting these projects into the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will be addressed to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5448	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Natalija Martincevic, who will hold the position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5496	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On a portal a few days ago, an article entitled “How We Have Became a Society That Celebrates Those Who Would Solve Problems”. The author of the article was probably encouraged by the fact that a 22-year-old who wounded a police officer until yesterday had 492 friends on his facebook profile, and in just a few hours after he was identified as an attacker, he received more than 1500 likes and over 200 comments in just a few hours. There are very few comments that condemn the proceedings, and an extremely large number of those who express their support for it are also guilty politicians, society or system, and these very messages of course attract the most reactions of other commentators. The comments appear, which are indeed frightening, and can be understood under the term "you sent the right message", "it will be yet", "he hasn't shot at the right" along with the naturally unforgettable folklore "for a home ready". Apparently the same, but with much more serious consequences, the deaths of three people we had recently in Split. The act also received a group of support on social networks with a whole series of congratulations and greetings to the perpetrator. And while the event in Split can be put in the context of some private accounts, the attempted murder of Croatian police officers in Mark's square is a terrorist act. Political statements that relativise terrorism and crime give their "but" wind to the back and encourage public support for violence, crime, hate speech on social networks, but unfortunately beyond them. All this I believe is that we are deeply and harassed and frightened, especially by the fact that hate speech and unacceptable behaviour, and according to the research conducted, in the Croatian media space are on the rise. And now the question is, what do we as a state do to prevent it? According to visible data, and especially according to visible results, almost nothing. After the situation in Split and the flood of just such disturbing messages, we had the opportunity to hear numerous announcements about what we will do, and so the Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obulen Koržinek announced in January 2019 the Law on illicit behaviour on the Internet, which would be responsible for the published content on social networks by social network managers. It was also announced that the revision of the Electronic Media Act would define editorial responsibility for comments published on the media. The minister explicitly defined that the editorial responsibility for the texts would be clearly identified in the media where there is an editorial responsibility for the comments to be published. The Minister also announced the establishment of the Media Council as a regulatory body with the aim of, here I will quote the minister, not that the only institution for the protection of individuals would be to press charges, but that there is a regulator or body that will assess whether there has been a violation of the law. All in a row of excellent initiatives with one small flaw, which is that none of the above and said things happened. The rise of inappropriate content, hate speech of all forms, discrimination and insults, false news, is a growing problem not only in Croatia but everywhere. But other countries have established mechanisms and control and sanctioning systems. There is a positive practice in a number of EU countries, the European Court of Human Rights itself speaks clearly of the unacceptable content that promotes violence, hatred and clearly defined that Member States will have the opportunity to sanction and prevent the publication of such texts. Of course, most EU Member States have long since passed and implemented such legislation. The responsibility for what happens, of course, is that on all of us, the individual, the family, the lack of civic education in our schools, but on us elected officials and responsible institutions, it is to do our part of the work. So we're the ones who have to act. As chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I will call today an extraordinary emergency session of the Committee and ask for a meeting with the Minister and, of course, its report to draw clear conclusions on what we will do and within what time. It is necessary to make decisions, it is especially important not to trap ourselves here with the thesis of restricting freedom of speech that has been a standard alibi for inaction. Free speech must not hide freedom of hate speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5497	Thank you. Ms Marijana Puljak will be the position of the IP, Smart and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5533	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to see first of all here in the assembly as representatives and MPs we have 4 square meters of personal space available. So much is required according to the latest national headquarters measures that we could sit in a closed area and talk without risk of picking up the coronary virus. What's a little confusing is who's gonna pay the fine if one of us doesn't respect that measure? Whether it will be paid by the owner of the facility we are currently in, which is in this case the Republic of Croatia, you understand what I'm aiming at. For the last few days, we have witnessed the abuse of both the caterers and entrepreneurs with new epidemiological measures, and that is a complete excuse. We are all aware, as well as the entrepreneurs themselves, that the protection measures are necessary and that the health of citizens must be first. This crisis and pandemic is still something new, something we still learn about every day, science progresses every day, explores, analyzes and adapts its recommendations. The whole world is trying to find the right balance between protecting the health of citizens and protecting the economy. This situation ultimately all together in this way also acts on the mental health of all. However, the new measures proposed by our headquarters, which include providing catering facilities with 4m2 per guest and that the hosts themselves will pay the fines if one of the guests disobeys the provision of a protective mask, are completely irrational, leaving only two possible conclusions. The first is that the measures are being taken in orderly, unprofessionally and without any analysis, and the second is that we have a new lockdown that none of the rulings dares to call it that. New measures will not formally prohibit entrepreneurs from working, but they are such that they will force them to put the key in the lock themselves. So if the situation is such that we need a lockdown, let's be completely open with it. By spreading the crown of the virus, we are eventually facing an economic crisis of enormous proportions, so it is totally unacceptable for the government and the headquarters to treat entrepreneurs this irresponsible by killing the few chances they have of survival and survival in Croatia. There is no other way to interpret all the illogicalities that we have had the opportunity to witness lately. The situation with which guests are now facing can be easily mirrored to other sectors of the economy because they are indifferences in each of them. Instead of constructively considering finding common solutions with entrepreneurs and taking measures that would enable them to operate economically sustainablely, the headquarters is taking completely illogical, repressive measures to deal with for a long time. Dragon sentences ranging from 20 to 70,000 kuna, which is why many companies will be shut down and workers will end up on the stock market cannot be an acceptable solution. A particular problem is why the recommendations of the headquarters do not act convincingly are the double standards that have been running through all this time, so they are one criterion for the church, for cities and municipalities with their inventory, and the other for everyone else. In such circumstances, you cannot count on public support and that the public trusts you. Instead of spreading panic and fear in the media, it would be better to further educate people to be responsible, further educate them by maintaining their own immunity, which can help not only to combat this disease of covid, but also against other respiratory viruses. He also noted one analyst, and I quote, "It is amazing that something as serious as the infection and death continues to communicate at a level far below the evening weather forecast on TV." I will remind as many times as it takes on the reform package proposed by the entrepreneurs themselves and which are necessary to help them overcome this crisis, but to stimulate entrepreneurship in Croatia in the long term, if any of this remains. This is the elimination of parafiscal duties, the reduction of income tax rates, the permanent elimination of the minimum director's base of pay, the elimination of income tax advances, the elimination of reinvested profit taxes and VAT upon collection of VAT or VAT return in case of inability to collect claims for the Croatian economy are a much better and more lasting solution than repressive measures. The headquarters should encourage personal responsibility, educate citizens, especially protect risk groups of citizens, and find ways to allow others to live and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5534	You, too. Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5558	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At 4 hours of debate in this assembly, the average age of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia increased by an hour, so take care of it. My colleagues and colleagues, every day due to aging, among other things, the number of blocked elderly, sick citizens and persons with disabilities living in multi-story residential buildings without elevators, blocked and trapped in their most important living space. I've been talking about this problem from this pay phone for the third year. How long has there been the possibility of installing elevators into 3+1 floors of European money? Unfortunately, Minister Žalac and Minister Pavic did nothing on the plan. And unfortunately, the saddest thing they've ever done is deny that possibility. I asked the new minister, Ms. Natashi Tramišak, a parliamentary question with a message saying that I expect this problem of urban Croatia to start with European money, given that the minister is very directed at the possibility of financing these projects precisely with this money. To remind you, 40 to 50,000 citizens are trapped in their own apartments in heaven or on earth, partly or completely dependent on the help of others, relatives, friends, neighbors, not to say that because of their lack of existence, it cost them more because each service in some way at least symbolically pays or feels guilty if they can't give or pay anything. City services are much more inefficient because of this, sanity, emergency services. I'll just give you three testimonies. Families with small children lock up on the stairs of a wheelchair so that every day they don't get dragged up, down, and that might be the most beautiful and easy thing to do. Sick parents are carried on their backs to their cars and driving somewhere for a checkup, and the real nightmare according to the people who are in that situation is, when your washing machine has done itss or when you have to lower it on the ground floor to have the repairman take it to his van and drive it to the service. It's a real nightmare based on those people's testimony. So from today I have to admit there is light at the end of the tunnel, from today we have an EU renovation wave which explicitly speaks of the possibility of financing the installation of elevators as accessibility and accessibility measures so far. I expect us as a community, as a society, to organize and accept each other's arms and take advantage of this possibility. I expect that elevator manufacturers, repairers, I expect that design, project applications, management is decentralised, that this problem is being solved by specialised teams across major cities and cities, so where the problem exists, because I don't think that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds has any interest in dealing with individual projects of an average of 30,000 euros or having human resources, nor is it logical for you to simplify that they are dealing with it. I want to be optimistic and believe that this time we will finally succeed, but I appeal to everyone, especially to raise their voice and citizens and tenants and imprisoned older, sick and disabled persons and their neighbors and associations especially mayors who must be aware of the conditions in which their citizens live, and I urge them to raise their voice to increase the quality and dignity of the lives of their fellow citizens especially the elderly, the sick and the disabled and the quality of life of young people with small children. So, both we and we all support this project for a common good future, let's be wise, let's be wise with little of our own resources, make great use for the citizens, they're the most important to us. They have to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5559	Thank you. And the last is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will present the position of the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5598	Thank you very much. Well, here I am, finally reporting for a break, but I see that today's urbi is an et orbi, HDZ has announced that the Croatian state is an example of Europe in the fight against corruption and crime. It won't happen at all because no one will live in Croatia. Every year, we're going to have those reports written by some exterminator. The judiciary is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia. That's why young people leave, that's why we don't have investments because we're messy and no one wants to invest. And young people, of course, can't live there. I will only tell you one example, colleague when you said that Croatia is an example that some clerk from Brussels wrote what kind of example it is. Only in the Cetitina region in the last 10 years with 800 first-graders, 2009/2010, this year 2020/2021. It's 401. So twice as many kids. And so on in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. You're justifying that Janaf is one big thing, it's a big deal, three of your ministers, three of your ministers, here's a colleague mentioned earlier that you'd like to send the Parliament home. Discuss my laws, argue out of opposition laws, because if you don't have laws, call the election. Oh, my God. Call the election. Now that the biggest crisis in the Republic of Croatia is ahead of us, the headquarters is taking over, I am proud to have been in a club in the past term that was not the only one who voted to transfer power to the headquarters, then what is the meaning of the Croatian Parliament? Let's disband him, name him a dictator or what we'll call him, the king, the kingdom. So do you know how to manage Croatia? So you have an example of one small municipality of 100 people, 150, citizens, SDSS your coalition partner at state level and HDZ. You know how they manage? To destroy everything in front of them just to destroy that area. That's the way it is in this country. They're destroying history. That flat bridge from the 14th century collapsed. They are now planning the Holy Savior, the oldest old Croatian church from the 9th century... And put plastic windows on it and some brick modern does commercials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's targeting everything. In Brač one class less this year compared to last first grade. And you're saying here that Croatia is an example of fighting anti-corruption. What, you copied everything Brussels sent you, right? And criminals full of pockets walk in money, and when they come, full of money of robbed people, and when they get in a situation where they need to be arrested or something, then BiH goes too. And that fight against corruption? If Janaf is your symbol of the management of the Croatian state, i.e. Janaf's club, where your three ministers, numerous parliamentary deputies, are careful there are more parliamentary deputies who were there, highly positioned even party leaders, your coalition partner, there are... The money bank from public procurement, the competition was destroyed, the Croatian people was destroyed, do not deceive under these lights Croatian people here that Croatia is an example of the fight against corruption, because it is a lie, it is a deception. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what makes people nervous, that's what people worry about, that's what humiliates people, that's what you create them with suppressed, stupid, screwed up, that's what made me an activist of ordinary people into politics, because that ornament you have here under the lights don't lie to the people. You will stop the work of the Assembly session, you would be the happiest if we were gone, if there were no opposition at all, and it will not succeed, it will bring people, what is left, and the young will have to return from other countries because it is difficult there, and you will not have a way out, you will not. You'll all have to answer who brought the state into this position, because of the blood spilled from, in years of war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5599	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5600	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Article 238, paragraph 1, indent 4. My colleague Bulj, it has been three months since the parliamentary elections in which the Croatian Democratic Union received 38%, and I am sorry that you still cannot reconcile with it, there is no reason to call the elections, and only for the information of the flat bridge is from the 15th century, not the 14th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5601	Yeah, I figured out Mr. Bully, just looking at this article in 238, and right. Mr. Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5602	Infringement of Article 238. My colleague, if there were elections, the people have chosen me three times with preferential votes in this House, but I feel humiliated when you say we will disband the Parliament in this crisis, we will go on vacation, disband it entirely, not the tribune, what will you do to Andrej Plenkovic, you listen to him do to your finger, so you listened to Karamark, Kosorica, Sanader, always the same story, the usual story, and you tell me past elections, and you introduced the Staff, now call the election? In the middle of the litt, you put elections on the people's fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5603	Time. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Two warnings, thank you. Two warnings because of what it is, which are...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5604	A fraud, a fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5605	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5606	It's a fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5607	Mr. Bull, you've got a third one, and you have a third warning that you're taking away words even though it doesn't mean anything. As you know, you're taking advantage of the situation, but it's not very nice of you. But it's not nice of you to take advantage of the situation because, you know, no, you can't give it anymore because you don't have the right words anymore. Now, Mrs. Sandra Bencic is on her way to the Green-Left Block Club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5697	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to talk a little today about the systematic reduction of the constitutional role of the Parliament, and in particular its legislative roles, the role in control and the establishment of a balance between the three branches of government. Mr. Bacic of the ruling majority announced yesterday that the parliament would have a two-week break. It justifies the fact that we've been working for seven weeks in a piece because I think who would normally last 7 weeks working in a piece. He also justified it by the fact that it is common that in the autumn between two sessions there is a two-week break. What he didn't take into account in that calculation that nothing is common this year, that we are in a state of permanent crisis covid, that we are at the edge of a deep economic crisis, that we have a GDP decline in the second quarter of 15%, that the only thing that is growing in this country is the number of unemployed and the number of infected, and so we have again broken the record today on this issue. With all this, we still have a security situation where we've had a precedent I'd say a security incident this week where a police officer died, where we now have new security measures in St. John's Square. The brand brought back by who? The government, not this Parliament, despite the fact that the issue of freedom of movement and gathering in Mark's square is exclusively within the House's domain. What exactly is going on here? In addition to working in a reduced volume, here we can only be limited to the possibility of parliamentary debate, to the headquarters being transferred to the Continual Powers of the Parliament. The headquarters began to prescribe people dear, punishments so we violate the basic legal principle that there is no penalty without law. And now, I understand the attractiveness of such a Croatian headquarters for the ruling because, namely, there are elected people who are not asking extra questions, they are party members and they are not burdened with too much democratic procedures, they are not asking like us here to set up investigative committees to determine the weaknesses of institutions to deal with corruption where the note is, finally yesterday the prime minister and admitted what is the key reason why they will not approve this commission and the reason is that they will not allow, as he said yesterday, that HDZ connects with corruption affairs in pre-election because they follow local elections. So, what's the situation is that with all these problems, health, economic, security, we're being sent into not self-insulation but isolation and that by HDZ for two weeks and we're waiting for a bunch of regulations that haven't been put into this session, we're waiting for a bunch of proposals that the opposition has given to debate and among other things, one of the key issues is precisely the question that we from the Green-Left bloc together with the SDP have referred to in an emergency procedure, and that's a matter of moratorium on the ground. So, tomorrow, the day we go home for two weeks is the last day of the moratorium and it's going to be 174,000 executions for 101,000 citizens who will be blocked from next week while we're sitting at home. After that, the second wave since yesterday leaves 170,000 citizens where the executions are already with public notebooks. So we're talking about 270 000 people who are going to be blocked in the coming months, who won't be able to pay the directors, many of whom are first done and many of whom have lost their jobs in this pandemic and are being sent home instead of discussing here how to make the executive law fairer, how to extend this moratorium, and how to ensure that citizens can survive this winter with all these restrictive measures that we impose on them. No, instead, headquarters will make decisions for us. Our new mini parliament will make those decisions. They'll probably solve citizens' social issues while we're sitting at home. When the HDZ calls on that break to be common, I would really ask them to ask the citizens when was the last time they did something common? When was the last time they used to live? When was the last time they used to work? When was the last time you breathed normally? And we refer to customs to have a break. It's embarrassing, dear colleagues, embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5698	Thank you. Mr Damir Habian will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5749	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will refer to the European Commission's Annual Report on the rule of law in the EU, with particular emphasis on the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Over the past few weeks in the world, the launch of the latest investigation into the company Janaf, in public debates, in the media appearances of individual politicians, questioned the effectiveness of judicial institutions, the work of the DORH, USKOK, PNUSOK, police and even the work of courts. In certain acts, we have almost witnessed a competition that will make it louder and stronger so that judicial institutions do not do their jobs, are not effective to ultimately testify to individual proposals that are at the limit of influencing the principle of government and rule of law. In these circumstances, the European Commission has published its regular annual report on the rule of law in the EU, including, of course, the Republic of Croatia. In its report, the European Commission looked at the importance of national strategies for a comprehensive approach to combating corruption, which, of course, puts emphasis on its implementation and implementation. In this part of the report on the adoption and implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Republic of Croatia has been highlighted as one of the positive examples. In particular, the European Commission points out that, with a comprehensive strategy, three detailed two-year action plans have been developed aimed primarily at initiatives for education and training, as well as at drawing up manuals with guidelines and planning of dedicated legislation. What the Commission points out and what is certainly important to highlight when we talk about the real fight against corruption is the implementation of those action plans and the strategy. Namely, action plans for 2015 to 2016 have been implemented or implemented at 44%, while the current two-year action plan is 88% of the implementation or implementation. It also indicates that, in addition to the normative framework, this government is leading the real fight against corruption, i.e. the activities envisaged by the adopted anti-corruption strategy and the adoption of two-year plans are also implemented in practice. The Commission also stresses that it is in May 2019. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an anti-corruption programme for majority state-owned companies for the period 2019 to 2020 containing measures aimed at strengthening the internal and external supervision of majority state-owned companies as well as establishing transparent criteria for the assessment of business efficiency. The European Commission also pointed out as a positive example of steps aimed at improving civil society's action as a relevant factor in defence of the rule of law. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to support civil society with an upcoming national plan to create an incentive environment for the period 2020 to 2026. In its summary, the commission also said progress has been made in the Croatian judicial system to reduce the number of pending court cases and improve electronic communication in courts. The European Commission also states that the legal and political framework of integrity and the prevention of corruption in the public sector has been established in Croatia and that state bodies are organised into the network and contribute to the creation of anti-corruption policies in all branches of government. What remains is the pain of the Croatian judicial system despite progress in solving the oldest cases is the length of proceedings in civil and commercial courts and, in the ordinary period, legislative activity should be dedicated and focused precisely on addressing the said problem of the length of court proceedings. Finally, given everything highlighted in the European Commission's annual report, we believe that no one can dispute the visible and real progress of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption and protect the principles of rule of law. No state is immune to a harmful phenomenon such as corruption, corruption has its own name and last name, but it neither knows nationality nor party membership. However, the fight against corruption and the protection of the principle of rule of law is not only a question of institutional framework and the fulfillment of form but the real implementation and implementation of all the prescribed measures and plans in which there are no untouchable or protected and recent events as well as this annual report by the European Commission, which is exactly what the European Commission shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5750	Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5751	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238th because someone here in the Assembly said that some clerk of Brussels wrote that in Croatia the judiciary is at the highest level in Europe and the biggest mistrust of the Croatian people is in the judiciary. 2/3 of Croatia has moved out, there will be an even better report next year because there will be no people. There won't be people because of justice and you don't have a problem with Janaf? Three ministers of yours there, archiles and banchillas. Hold the counter,... You now have three ministers in the government who were arching and banking with the head of the main company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5752	Time, thank you. And a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I've already given a warning. Okay? Okay. And that's on purpose, of course, we both know, Mr. Bull, that you did it on purpose because we know it. So the second time I'm going to be taking away the words if it's going to be during this but I believe you know it so it won't be during this debate, this part of the debate. We're moving on to individual debates. ... And my mistake, my mistake, my mistake, and my sin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Positions. She's the first one. Boška Ban Vlahek, who will be the position of SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5811	... I always have problems with that. [[Specially enabled.]] In all of Croatia, as well as in Međimurje from which I come, the functioning of the health system is very specific and takes place under challenging circumstances. Especially during this year. The health system is based on the principles of comprehensiveness, continuity, availability, full access to primary and secondary healthcare. Međimurje is a rare county in Croatia that has all health institutions, primary and secondary healthcare in one yard, believing that cooperation and association between health institutions, and especially the speed of reactions in the health system can save human life. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 5 years ago in order to achieve its own standards, consistent with the EU, which implies rationalisation and improvement of quality in the health system. The plan envisioned that the health system in Croatia operate on the principle of subsidiarity. The County of Međimurje took this plan very seriously and we immediately began to implement it in a way that the objectives of the plan were taken as a motive to reach them in Međimurje and reach them as soon as possible. The Chakovec County Hospital met and exceeded all the goals of the National Plan. She implemented hospital reconstruction projects for the needs of a daily hospital and day-to-day surgery with a total value of 65 million kuna, out of which 50 million kunas of EU funds, and the rest needed to be secured from the budget of the Međimurje County. I have to point out in particular, one of the goals, which is to change the health and health care staff's attitude to more than 72.8% of the average health rate in Croatia, while the county hospital with today's 888 employees has 77.14% of healthcare staff. These are all the facts and results of a county hospital, the one in Međimurje. A hospital that only treated 615 869 patients who received 1,151 169 medical services in a polyclinical hospital health care facility in 2019 alone. A hospital where as many as 89% of patients in this area are treated and this is how KBCs in Zagreb are released. However, according to the health system in Međimurje County, central authorities are acting in a way that punishes these results in a very unpleasant manner. The agreed basic monthly amount of funding with HZZ has been wrongly set up for years and is not sufficient to cover all obligations since the majority of the agreed amount represents expenditure on employees. The increased pay base on two occasions, as well as salary supplements, did not adequately monitor the increase in the limit. In 2019 alone, invoiced services are 25.7 million kuna higher than the limit. Strengthening primary healthcare as an increase in the quality of the health system and discharging secondary health care, is to the greatest extent financed by the founder's own resources. Unfortunately, the government failed and wanted to recognise the importance of the project for all residents of Međimurje County and 38 million kuna investment helped with only 3 million kuna. In 2020, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set aside additional funding for the payment of debt to large-scale enterprises on 2 occasions. In total, 900 million kunas were allocated. The Chakovec County Hospital is the only hospital that hasn't even received a kuna from that base. With these examples I mentioned, I would like to send a message to the Ministry of Health that Croatia must be a country of equal opportunities and equal values. In Croatia, which fights that all regions are the same in the focus of the central government, in which I want to live there are no equal and equal ones, certain parts of the country that are not politically colored as the color of the government are not punished because righteousness is the largest component that drives our people out of the country. I therefore call on the Ministry of Health to show the will and system of justice to introduce general and county hospitals in Croatia, as this task has been expected for 20 years. And finally, the state of the County Hospital of Čakovec owes more than 83 million kuna and waits wisely and drags that amount into oblivion and forgets it. For 83 million kunas, all debt can be paid to workers, wholesalers, to get new sheets and mattresses for all patients, and to hire 20 nurses missing from the hospital. All of this could be done, but the country's debt of 83 million kuna, which is owed in the exact amount, directed by the annex to the contract to the rich Dubrovnik-Neretva County, is, of course, the 10th electoral unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u5812	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6607	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 19:02 AM]] The next item is as announced: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Janovics to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6608	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] At the 7th session held on 15 October 2020, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Rajko Ostojić of 6 October 2020, which informed the president of the HS that I am the foundation of art. 14. The Law on election of MPs in HS puts its parliamentary mandate to rest on 14 October 2020. Art. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. The law on election of MPs in HS has been laid down that the representative has the right to have his or her term of office one time during the term of office by submitting a written request to the President of the Parliament to put his or her term of office on hold. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Rajko Ostojic's term of office. Following the above mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament by virtue of Article. 14. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously proposes to the HS a decision on the stay of MPs' term of office on 14 October 2020 begins the rest of MP Rajko Ostojic's term of office. It is determined that, due to the stay of MP Rajko Ostojic's term of office on 14 October 2020, the behaviour of the vice-president of HS ceases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6609	Okay, thank you to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. The debate was first reported by the distinguished representative, Nikola Grmoy, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6610	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I've filed a request to the Mandate-Immunity Commission with a request to strip me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6611	It's not Mr. Grmoya's theme, it's clear what the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6612	That's the darkness. How is it not a theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6613	So I'm based on an art. In 238, don't talk about the subject that's under discussion. The subject of the debate is... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6614	Well, he voted MIP, when that's the point of forgiveness, Mr. Janovics. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6615	And you said what was the MIP theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6616	So it was a theme and they voted on my request? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6617	No, no, it wasn't the subject. He didn't read that was the subject. Here's the president of the MIP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6618	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6619	So the theme is the rest of Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6620	So, I demand a hearing, I won't agree to what you've done. First of all, you didn't invite me to the MIP as a promoter, secondly you voted on it, rejected my request, and I demand a debate on the subject. I'm not moving out of this place until there's a debate on the subject. So, you can't MiP vote on my request, throw it away, and then get it out that it's not being discussed here in HS. So, the MIP is not an independent body, it's an HS working body, if it's made any decision on my request that needs to be discussed here. You should. Mr. Bukarica, are you above the Rules of Procedure of HS above this High House?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6621	Please, Mr. Grmoya, don't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6622	So you're not above this High House. If the MIP has made a certain decision on it, it should be discussed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6623	When they put it on the agenda, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6624	So when does that come to the agenda? Mr. Jankovics, if you had a session today, why isn't it on the agenda here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6625	That's what you discuss with the MIP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6626	No, I'm not gonna discuss it here. I'm not gonna get out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6627	I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6628	I'm not gonna get out of here. I'm asking him to discuss my removal of immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6629	I'm giving you the foundation of an article. In 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6630	I won't move.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6631	Based on an article. In 240, he gave you a reminder by taking away your word. Please step away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6632	I'm not gonna stand back.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6633	Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6634	Mr. Sanader, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure as vice president. Allow your colleague Grumoja to speak on behalf of the Mosta club is that if it was a debate on his proposal he has in the context of the MIP, and today it was a debate, you cannot defend the representatives from talking about what today was a topic at the MIP. And what you've agreed with your coalition partner is your problem I'm standing here behind my colleagues Grumoje and discussing his request. He's a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6635	Miro, come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6636	I give you a warning because I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I clearly called on Mr. Grumoy to speak out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6637	Let your colleagues let Grumo finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6638	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6639	What's the warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6640	Here you go, sit down. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6641	I know. What's the warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6642	Because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6643	Now I'm going to go with my colleague Grumo because this isn't your chakotay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6644	On the basis of Article 241 Mr. Grmoya, I am giving you a measure of distance from the session. On the basis of Article 241, I give you paragraph 3. I give you a measure of distance from the double-term session. I also give you Mr. Bulj the basis of Article 241(1) of the sitting. I give you the basis of Article 241(3) of the distance from the session in double duration...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6645	I'm asking for the right of my colleague Grumoja to speak in the possession of the Most Club to defend you from speaking on behalf of the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6646	...and you and the bushes. I'm setting a five-minute recess and calling the guards to allow us to continue the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6647	They said...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6648	No, this is a shame you made, this is a real shame. You are protecting Prime Minister Plenkovic because he is involved in corruption affairs at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. You did not agree to take off your immunity because Mr. Plenkovic and DORH are afraid to raise criminal charges or to launch a prosecution against me because I have all relevant documents for this case and that is why we did this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6649	What do we need immunity for? That triba stripped everybody's immunity, what do we need it for. I call on others, this opposition to the Pharaohsk, the Pharaohs' leadership of the sessions, not to be allowed to speak to the Clubs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's not a meaningful colleague, Mr. Bukarica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6650	Let's break this point and let it continue tomorrow, we'll move, offer a compromise. It's 7:00. 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u6651	CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 19,17 HOURS that there are no more reports for the hearing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions on this wheel. We will go to the next point, Selection of appointments and resolutions: - Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament; He is the Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club on the basis of Article. 32nd, 172nd and 272. The Rules of Procedure of HS. I would like to ask the proposal's representative to further explain the proposal, the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u7465	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that Rajko Ostojic was put to rest on 14 October, the SDP MPs' club proposed to elect representative Sabina Glasovac as vice president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u7466	I would like to thank the applicant's representative. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 A report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2019. Here, good night. Session adjourned at 1920 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9170	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we continue our work. Today's first item: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2019 The applicant is the Ombudsman for children on the basis of Article. 19. It's a law about a child's attorney. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. I would now like to ask the reporter to give us an additional explanation. With us is Helena Pirnat Dragicevic, the lawyer for the children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9171	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretaries, respected parliamentary deputies, respected parliamentary representatives. The Ombudsman has been acting independently in Croatia for more than 17 years. During that period, we developed as one of the most recognizable institutions for children to whom citizens are addressing more and more. We have influenced a number of changes that have led to awareness of children's rights and thus improve the quality of life of children in our country. The Convention on the Rights of the Child as the Universal Fastest Internationally Accepted Document, based on the development needs of the child and the conditions necessary for its healthy development, leads us on the way to change for children. 17. The report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children shall provide insights and analysis of the state of children's rights in the country from the perspective of the activities of the Ombudsman during 2019 and recommendations and guidelines for further improvement of the situation and rights of children in the Republic of Croatia. I am aware that the problems of 2019 may seem less important from the perspective of the challenges we face this year, but I think it is important that we all continue learning from our own procedures and mistakes. Most observations, as well as recommendations from the Report, are based on real life situations where children and their guardians, teachers, educators, doctors, and all others who take care of children. There are more than 1500 live conversations or phone conversations with adults and children who have called us that way. This means that every day, at least 6 citizens who expect help from our team in solving some of the problems children face. There are no registrations that arrive by written means, which were 10% higher in 2019 compared to 2018, a total of 1741 applications. The increase in defence applications of nearly 10% last year indicates the need for more effective protection of children and their rights, and continued growth, recognition of the institution and growth of social awareness of children's rights. The report for 2019 shows the following activities of the Ombudsman for children. Monitoring individual infringements of children's rights, according to areas, through a network of young advisers, proposals to build a complete system of protection of children's rights towards isolated areas of protection of children's rights. Recommendations from the Ombudsman for children, the participation of the Ombudsman in the making of regulations, research on children, visits of institutions for children and other places, meetings, conversations and cooperation with children and other activities in protecting children's rights, including international cooperation and activities of regional and central offices. With the usual large, very large number of applications in the field of child's personal rights, especially parental care rights, the highest increase in applications, complaints, enquiries and requests, we have recorded in the area of child safety and child protection and education rights. For many years, we have witnessed an increase in the number of high-conflict divorces negatively affecting the lives of children, especially when parents strive to alienate them from another parent through their manipulative actions. In doing so, children are burdened by the longevity of judicial proceedings in which key decisions are made for them, and such uncertainty in children’s lives can lead to irreparable consequences. That is why for years we have been in favour of establishing specialised family courts and we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out, in accordance with the National Strategy for the Rights of Children in this year, a measure concerning the establishment of family courts in whose jurisdiction all procedures would be in the domain of family and legal protection of the child, including the implementation of judicial decisions. As a special problem observed, I would single out violence against and among children. Many disturbing cases point to the need to protect children from all forms of violence as a priority activity in society. The dramatic increase in domestic violence compared to 2018 according to our data, 56% and serious injuries to children in families in 2019 affected the increased separation of children from the family due to parental neglect and abuse. I would also like to remind you that the phenomenal forms of violence, which were cruel and painful events in 2019, have been extremely concerned by the reaction of a large number of institutions and individuals dealing with children and children's rights, the media and the general public. In such situations it is essential to recognise and prevent risks in a timely manner and to question the effectiveness of the system for the protection of children's rights and the ability of systems and individuals to identify them. Violence in the family is not only an individual or a family member's problem but it's a problem of society as a whole. The effective fight against this violence requires additional and continuous investment in prevention, empowerment of institutions dealing with the protection against violence through education and supervisory, employment of an additional number of experts and coordinated action. Cooperation with the civil sector which plays an important role in protecting victims of violence is also needed. In order to protect children, it is necessary to identify risk factors in a timely manner and report them to competent institutions, as well as the decisive action of all systems and timely and adequate sanctions for perpetrators. Furthermore, the problem of peer violence in schools is still growing and the most numerous form of violence in educational and educational institutions, and educational staff and schools are not sufficiently qualified to address this problem effectively or sufficiently supported by the system. It worries that schools rarely show impotence and ignorance in solving the underlying situations and seek advice and help, and rarely after violence among children there are conflicts between their parents and inappropriate behavior sometimes at the level of punishment. We are faced with reports of psychological violence that some children have suffered for years, which is not recognized as suffering and the risk of mental health of a child who suffers such violence, which is why children develop various psychosomatic symptoms. At the same time, schools rarely take it lightly for the child to leave the middle as a solution without investing more effort to stop and prevent violence. The problem is also psychological violence in the form of insults, demeanings and exclusions that take place on social networks, most often worked out by Viber and Whatsapp groups. It also worries that schools rarely refuse to act when violence occurs that way and online. When we talk about the digital environment through which children today exercise their many rights to learn, communicate, entertain and mate, we must not forget that children are at the same time exposed to a number of rights violations, and children living in the middle without digital infrastructure and whose technology is not available. The concern and transfer of online violence to live violence, violation of children's privacy, maiming a child by adults to be sexually exploited, creating pornographic and other content that sometimes creates children themselves and publishes on social networks, and is particularly concerned by the obvious lack of empathy. And during 2019, in a number of cases, we faced weaknesses in the child protection system against sexual abuse, exploitation. Despite the changes in the Penal Code during 2019, we witnessed an unsatisfactory level of child protection against the perpetrators of sexual delicacies. In this area, we continue to note the inadequate application of rules in practice, too mild sanctions, not giving away security measures and an ineffective system of surveillance of perpetrators of sexual violence against children. The area of educational rights last year broke out in the first place by the number of applications we received, as many as 391, and part of the increase in applications is linked to a months-long teacher strike. There are significant differences in the system of education and education in its availability and in its content and spatial, human and organisational conditions. This refers to the availability of kindergartens, school transport, warm meal, extended stay, education of children in health institutions during long-term hospital treatment, support of teaching assistants and professional communication mediators and helper in kindergarten for children with developmental difficulties, etc. Achieving an appropriate standard and the necessary forms of child support depends mostly on the financial power of units of local and regional self-government, from there and a great difference which justifies dissatisfaction. Many reports of violations of the right to raise and educate children with developmental difficulties show that many of them are not provided with support for teaching assistants or support in kindergartens and other necessary services. I would like to stress that for the quality of educational, quality educational inclusion, joint and coordinated action of stakeholders from different systems is necessary in order to provide quality educational services to children with developmental disabilities. We appeal and constantly encourage the development and expansion of early intervention services for children with developmental difficulties, their families, as this prevents the institutionalisation of children and at the same time strengthens parents' capacities to support the child's development and its participation in everyday life activities. We therefore find it extremely important to establish an early childhood intervention committee established in August 2019 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of creating a single early intervention system and stressing the need to create a public policy for early childhood intervention. Problems in the field of child health are most often linked to insufficient health professionals and their poor availability of children. One of the weakly covered areas is the protection of the mental health of children and young people, so especially in this year, which has brought new challenges, we stress that it is important to organise a network of institutions in which children and their families, according to the principle of equal territorial availability, will be provided with psychosocial assistance from mental health professionals. Moreover, the burning problem we have long warned about is the lack of adequate professional support for children who also have problems with mental health behavior and difficulties, which make it difficult for them to grow up and live. Greater efforts are also necessary to reduce the negative effects of poverty on children, especially if I know that almost every fifth child is at risk of poverty. Children's poverty marks not only the lack of money needed for life, but often the inability to exercise the right to adequate health care, education, participation in cultural and sports activities and the concept of social exclusion. All this leads to inequality between children and violations of their rights. The social care system does not provide for a social service aimed at preventing, recognising or solving child problems caused by life in poverty such as support in education, learning assistance, skills improvement, prevention of school leaving. We bring an end to a difficult year that can further increase child poverty, and here I would remind you of our call to the government of the Republic of Croatia to create a protective circle around children who have been threatened by poverty or have already found themselves in its vicious circle. Effective protection of children from poverty will be achieved by ensuring the employment of parents, by increasing social benefits, by involving children in pre-school education and education, by providing free hot meals in schools and by introducing new and strengthening existing social services. Most of these changes will not be possible unless further investment is provided in staff and welfare centres systems. In the past year, we have followed the exercise of the rights of children in migration, and these children have arrived with families and children without escort, children who are illegally staying and who are looking for international protection. We had good cooperation with the MUP and the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy and improved child care without escorts was achieved by adopting a new Protocol on treatment of children without escort and new Household Act. However, we still see different problems relating to the system of reception and care of these groups of children, such as lack of specialised accommodation facilities, problems in the custody system, lack of a single database, inadequate exercise of the right to education and health care and family integration. It is certainly necessary to highlight both the major step and the involvement of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy as a consolidater for the development of the Children's Budget and the Annual Report on the implementation of the Children's Budget, which brings the Republic of Croatia into a circle of countries which accurately show how much funding from their budget is intended for the achievement of children's rights. I would like to commend the adoption, but I would like to emphasise the importance of further developing and monitoring the children's budget as a basis for measuring the effectiveness of the implementation of the programme for children. Today, all the more complex problems children face require cooperation from different resolutions, professions, and decision - making levels. This is also confirmed through individual applications that we have received in whose resolution we perceive the lack of timely cooperation between the resolutions that need to be implemented and safeguard children's rights, particularly social care, education and education, justice, health and others. I therefore call on all systems that have a bearing on the achievement and protection of children's rights to make greater efforts to connect and cooperate instead of setting limits on their responsibilities. Intersectoral cooperation is necessary to respond to the needs and rights of children. This is particularly important in the current situation of the pandemic we are facing, which makes a large part of all the perceived weaknesses now more strongly reflected on children due to the difficult functioning and need for constant adaptation and change of the usual way of working of all systems and due to the numerous issues raised in these exceptional circumstances. At this point due to the pandemic and the health crisis, children are in an additionally sensitive situation that reflects the exercise of their rights, which is why we can conclude that the coronary crisis is also a crisis of children's rights. That is why we must not forget to hear children, give them the opportunity to express their thinking, fears, concerns, and give them the opportunity to tell them what is important to them so that adults can make it easier for them to grow up in this uncertain situation. I thank everyone for the attention and expect that the upcoming debate will contribute to a better understanding and achievement of children's rights in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9172	Thank the D.A., please remain at the pay phone since we have as many as 23 replicas, so let's go in turn, first mate Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9173	Thank you very much. Many violations of rights among children in the Republic of Croatia are visible daily, from the right to the possibility of education from kindergarten to, to higher education is not the same possibility and this is a huge problem. When we talk about the transport of students, in many of our 2/3 of Croatia, the transportation of students is not well organised, and that is one of the main reasons why parents and their families are leaving. When we talk about sexual abusers, less punishment gets those sexual abusers than a fan who drinks a beer, less punishment. And that's what we'd like to talk about. But no, you've given an emphasis on how schools are intruding, there should be no religious event. So who in Croatia bothers St. Nikola and Christmas? Why does it bother you with all of these? The things I've listed that don't have the possibility of our children, explain it to me. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9174	Here's your answer. Here's the answer, yes, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9175	I'd like to thank Representative Buljo for this fact. I, through this report, during these 20 minutes actually tried to give an overview of the most important and one general review of the violation of children's rights in 2019. I agree absolutely with you that there should also be opportunities for further discussion, i.e. a wide debate on penalties which are imposed or which are imposed on sexual predators or perpetrators of these criminal acts. I also agree that there is room for more of the emphasis I am, which needs to be discussed. However, this would not have brought about this issue at the very end. which you have set up for me, [[Intruder: Thank you]] Yeah. [[Intruder: Thank you, Attorney General...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9176	...we have one minute, so I'm asking you to calculate in other answers what you wanted to say. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9177	Thank you very much, Your Honor. He's been injured. 238, where it's not answered my question, why are they bothering her? religious events, Christmas, Christmas and [[Come on, please sit down.]] and St. [[/Intruder: Comrade Bulj, please it is not, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Nikola. Well, it's not answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9178	The D.A. wanted it, but it wasn't in time, and it had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9179	Thank you. Dear Advocates, your report shows that children's rights on islands do not have the same opportunities for quality education and education as children on land, which is also said by surveyes conducted among islanders in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. Subjects themselves point out that the geographical position and the poor traffic connection have a negative impact on the timely and effective conduct of the services involved in the care and education and education of the child in attending the same education and professional advancement of employees. What can we all do here in HS to provide children on islands with greater progress in their children's rights in achieving children's rights in light of here's greater investment in educational education institutions in terms of human rights? Also today we mark International White Stick Day And those kids. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9180	Please hang in there, make sure you communicate with what you want in a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9181	Children or children's rights on the islands is a special topic dealing with the Ombudsman's office and this year was planned in the 5th month and the Conference on the Rights of Children on the Islands. I think that really we all need to think together about the greater equality of children, about the possibility of raising children and, in this sense, helping as a state, means JLS, but also by certain measures to take measures to enable or enable children on islands to have greater opportunities. I must point out here that there has been one, one small shift in relation to children living on developing islands with difficulties that they now have an unlimited and free possibility of using ferry lines or ferry lines and their parents to go to the mainland. But it's a small, small one. Move. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9182	Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9183	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honorary Attorney, I'm only interested in how many children of Roma nationality have been able to participate on the line continue during the Coronal Virus pandemic since we are aware that most of them have no home, no computer, no pills, and they don't even have access to the Internet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9184	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9185	This refers to the situation that is currently in place, meaning in 2020. and it is indeed something that the Ministry of Science and Education, or society as a whole, needs to be dealt with, which is that all children have equal opportunities regarding technology and the possibility of monitoring the educational process. I know that there are some associations of civil society that help children, which bring children together because the problem is not only to have technology but to have a problem and to make and to establish a connection, or to connect on the line. So we definitely don’t have all the children or all the children don’t have the same opportunities in achieving the quality of the educational process as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9186	Thank you. Comrade Grman Kizavitt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9187	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Your Honor, my replica goes in the direction of preschool institutions. I'm glad the Ministry's representatives are here, too, because maybe they're the address for my replica. For many years, the conditions of children staying in mangers and kindergartens have been discussed. There's more to the problem. The availability of kindergartens as one of the biggest problems, then the number of children staying in those groups, unadjusted rooms, sanitary nodes. The playgrounds are mostly not tailored to jazz groups, one breeder to a large number of children. This year we witness the COVID 19 disease and the earthquake that took place in Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska, because of the CIOVID group should not interfere, kindergartens are affected by the earthquake, etc., leading to overburdening of the breeders. They're on the verge of endurance. Have you taken steps to help breeders and protect our youngest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9188	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9189	I must again point out that this is now, this is a report for 2019. However, at this point I must say that in this COVID situation, the attorney's office is extremely active and we have given a large number of recommendations to the Ministry of Science and Education, among other things, and the issue of better organisation in preschools and educational institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9190	Fifth is my colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9191	Your Honorary Attorney, you've pointed out that there are 10% more cases that you're dealing with this year and what we all know is that the Istanbul Convention has been adopted to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. Explain to me a little bit how this could happen if we adopted a document that is according to many and also to you, a good document, and I will remind you of your attitude in the interview when you were supposed to come to that place where you explicitly told me that you were against the Istanbul Convention. So I'm interested in your position today and a comment on the increase in cases you're dealing with in the context of the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9192	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9193	Dear fellow Zekanovic, when I think we were, you misunderstood me as to the Istanbul Convention itself, I believe it is one document that contributes to all other documents to protect rights and children, or women. In that sense, I think that it is also applied in the Republic of Croatia or that there have been a number of documents before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9194	Now it's MP Vidovic Kristo's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9195	Although it is your duty as attorney, complaint and performance of parents related to the work of the Child Protection Policy, you did not forward it to the DORH and thus potentially put children at risk as victims of sexual abuse to continue to be exposed, so it is your duty to forward everything related to this topic to the superior institutions. Is the reason for your inaction on this issue also because the daughter of the Director of the Gordana Child Protection Center Buljan Flander, is your employee?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9196	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9197	I assure you that in all the cases in which we acted and in which there was some doubt, we passed it on to the competent institutions and the DORH. As for the Poliklinika itself, we have good cooperation with it, or that cooperation existed before I arrived and it continues, but there is no difference in access to the Poliklinica given the function of my deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9198	Now it's time for my colleague Bedekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9199	Dear Advocate, I have carefully read your report and what I consider to be extremely valuable among other things is your initiative to establish specialised family courts that will have jurisdiction in all family and legal protection procedures, and I will remind you that during 2019 the CZSS intervened in 4600 cases to manipulate children's rights during divorce or termination of the parents' marriage or non-marriage community and gave 767 measures of family and legal protection precisely for the manipulative behaviour of one or both parents, and I will also remind that the Ministry of Democracy, Family, Youth and Social Policy has developed professional instruments based on the UNICEF Agreement which will enable effective and scientific knowledge-based assessment of the manipulative behaviour of parents in the situation of conflicting parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9200	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9201	As I stated in the report itself, and I must say through my long-standing practice of working in the judiciary, specialized courts would be extremely important and would actually be the only possible improvement in themselves, in the protection of children's rights in that segment. In particular, specialised courts should address all issues related to children which are now separated by different courts depending on the civil or criminal aspect. In some cases, therefore, there is no connection between these two aspects, which is extremely difficult for children and happens to be children and more because for this reason it calls for courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9202	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9203	Thank you. In your presentation, the esteemed Ombudsman for children, you presented a dramatic increase in domestic violence by as much as 56% compared to last year. You've concluded that children are betrayed when it comes to protection against violence. That information is significant. I ask you if it is possible, although I personally think it is impossible to comment on such information in a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9204	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9205	Such information in any case indicates that we have failed as a society in a particular case or that we have to take activities related to the protection of children in a place where it should be the safest and that is exactly family and that is their primary environment and primary. As I said, it is also important to identify risk factors, i.e. the timely taking of activity by competent institutions, so that children, if necessary and necessary, can even be singled out from the family because in the last year we witnessed several or several events that were extremely cruel. Now, in that sense, I think that this.../incomprehensible... every other comment, given the number, is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9206	A colleague of Kajtazi's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9207	Thank you, my dear... in your report on several occasions you stated that certain institutions did not respect your recommendations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you to tell me which institutions and recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9208	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9209	Well, what I said is, one of the only ones according to the Law on Child Advocates, the only tool we use, which is the recommendations we give to institutions. I must say, I am not satisfied with the acceptance of these recommendations. We're talking about general recommendations that went in individual cases, that acceptance is much higher. However, in general initiatives, I am not satisfied with the acceptability of our recommendations. I wouldn't specifically single out institutions that didn't accept it, but I have to say that there are more institutions and that we don't really have any other tools in this situation besides repeating such recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9210	My colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9211	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Attorney General. I personally appreciate your work and your coherence and cooperation with a number of institutions as well as numerous recommendations. Good and necessary to appear more frequently in the media, you are the voice of those most vulnerable, smallest and youngest. However, here, I will also resort to this recommendation in which you refer to marking through the performances of various our traditional religious holidays, but also to those who are not,... The days of bread that respect all, I believe all citizens as one expression of gratitude for the fruits of the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You shouldn't really try to insist on that. This is what children look forward to, have a truly educational character, and there is the possibility of including other religious communities. If anyone has anything against it, They're volunteering. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9212	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9213	I will agree so much that certain events are that children are happy and what is important to them and what is my starting point that all children at school must feel good, that all children at such events must feel comfortable, must be, have a feeling that they belong to that community. Therefore, I am not against such celebrations, but not at the time of teaching, or not, they must be present on a voluntary basis, on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9214	A fellow Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9215	Like this, esteemed attorney. Why are you opposed to prayer and blessing being removed from school? The blessing and prayer for the Days of Bread to you is questionable by the basis of your personal opinion. Who can be threatened by prayer and blessing? Who forces and forces their children to share in prayer and blessing? No one's pushing them. Then why do you do it? Prayer and blessing bring only good, in today’s world, you will agree, and we need good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9216	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9217	I have to say, it's not my personal position, and I have to say, in fact, it wouldn't be so much of a deal if the media, or others, hadn't asked that question to me. What I repeat is that every child at school must feel comfortable and that it is actually necessary for children who may not have the same creeds or children whose parents are atheists, should ensure that during this, the sciences conducted at school have adequate activity, or preservation. What's important is the agreement between school and parents, and the presence at celebrations like I said, should be on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9218	My colleague Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9219	Thank you. This is the 2019 Report, yours, but I think it's especially important today at this time of the pandemic because it shows how important it is to prepare. So in non-crisis times prepare for the crisis. In your report, you warned of the parental refusal of mandatory vaccination of the child, so you say that every year you receive notifications from the health ministry and the State Inspectorate. In that sense, if you see any increase in that, the increase in the number of parents who refuse this regular vaccination or any progress in that, especially important here, I say today, at the time of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9220	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9221	When we talk about violation of health rights, given the view of the profession that it is the most effective preventive method for maintaining health, vaccination is in, or there is mandatory vaccination in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about health rights, we are still the largest number of applications recorded by institutions that warn us of a number of parents. That number can't say that it's in significant growth, but it's actually the same thing over and over again, so a certain number of parents who don't actually do it, and that's how they actually avoid parental responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9222	My colleague Big Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9223	Thank you. In your report, you mentioned the protection of children's rights by many grounds, educational, health, social protection, but I did not register in your presentation the treatment and protection of children's rights and in the situations of alienation by one parent who is a major emotional abuse and what measures you take to protect children from alien parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9224	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9225	In my presentation, I mentioned high conflict divorces like each other, almost every third divorce in the Republic of Croatia unfortunately becomes highly conflicting or becomes such that parents cannot separate their partner and actually parenting role. I mentioned that children are in such cases when judicial proceedings are very often subjected to violence emotionally, and of course by being separated from another parent very often their manipulation of this is. In these cases, we most often seek reports but also refer to the conduct of the City of Zagreb Child Protection Clinic or some other professional institutions to help a child in such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9226	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9227	Thank you. You said that the increase in domestic violence by 56%, now given the situation of the Covida-19 pandemic in this year, do you think that lockdown and lack of physical instruction is actually a trigger to increase this domestic violence or violence against children and what are your concrete suggestions to overcome? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9228	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9229	We have made concrete proposals and recommendations and delivered this to the competent ministry. I certainly still have to say in my office that we are not recording, but certainly all of the professional predictions and expert research of experts show that the time when the children were imprisoned because of the situation in the house could lead to an increase in violence, and in this sense I was talking about increased sensitivity and vulnerability of the children in this situation Covid or at the time of lockdown. What I need to say again is that everyone who comes into any contact needs to point to or to report suspicion of any form of violence Also Red Baton we have different activities [[Intruder: Collars.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9230	Thank you. Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9231	Respected in your report, you also referred to the problem of foster care. After years and years of pending the law, the law was finally passed in 2018, however, it proved to have failed to meet the purpose. Namely, the number of foster parents falls, also a very small number of people applied for the profession, a small number of foster parents applied for professional status, so please tell me what you're going to do, so it wasn't the law's intensity, what you're going to do, what changes you're going to initiate about it. And I need to refer to your statement that you don't want to single out institutions that don't listen to your recommendations. I think it's your job to clearly state what institutions are that don't listen to your recommendations. And also in the case of these issues related to religious rituals, you represent here, in schools you represent an institution and embezzlement it's not my personal position, I don't think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9233	I thank you for your comment, and given the foster parents and the new Household Act, the fact is that this is a temporary form of concern for certain problems, which is that we have an insufficient number of foster families and that we have an unequal representation in the area of the Republic of Croatia, that there is a problem with adhesion so-called. between foster parents and children, or very often free, children are placed in a foster home toward a free place, according to someone where there is a free place. As far as foster care is concerned, I think it's the number of foster parents that I think is really something that's crucial. In that sense, I think more campaigns are needed, but I also think more support. What was seen on the ground that she was not enough Supporting foster parents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9234	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9235	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you have mentioned or advocated, and you recommend that specialised courts be formed for children, which are already mentioned in the replicas of some colleagues. I fully agree with you when we see from the report that in 2019, social care centres intervened 4,600 times in cases of natural child manipulation during the divorce, or termination of the marriage community, and gave 767 measures of family legal protection. Of course, if this one were to form such specialized courts to help, all for the best protection of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9236	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9237	Once again, when we return to specialised courts, it was also one of the tasks or priority activities set out in the National Strategy for the Rights of Children. I will re-emphasise only by specialising experts or teams who will work on this, such a court may be better off protecting a child than I can fully say. In that sense, I will continue to advocate, otherwise the office's proposal has been for many years, but we will continue to advocate the establishment of such courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9238	Now it's my friend Zeljko Pavić's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9239	You mentioned violence in schools, so I'm interested in whether you have information about events that occur in schools, and if you have information about how these problems are solved in schools? Namely, this is a close subject for me, and I know that pedagogical services often refer to bullies in a way that is not good for other students. The arguments are that these students should be adapted, that they should be socialised, but it is not good for them to adapt and socialise to the burden of other children. That's the first question. The second question is, have you considered making some rules that would define parental obligations regarding the monitoring and restriction of the activities of children on social networks because I think it would be one of the good levers to force children to in some way not to act on networks in accordance with the norms of civilised society?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9240	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9241	As I said, peer violence is extremely worrying and it is the most common form of violence in schools. What concerns, therefore, may require education or additional support for teaching staff, according to educators, in order to know how to put themselves in that situation. It is also necessary to employ or increase the activity of professional workers at school who will work with children who are perpetrators of this violence, but also to provide support for children who have suffered this violence. No violence occurs overnight, any violence of the child means that the child is showing his emotions or that he needs some help.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9242	Now it's time for counterpart Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9243	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor's Attorney General. In your report, you say that through contact with homes that care for children without adequate parental care and with foster parents, you find it difficult for centres to decide to initiate proceedings against the competent court and that, if they do, parental care procedures are often long - term. There are also a number of situations in which the court has not acted according to the proposal of the Social Care Centre, and what is your experience in the work of the courts or your cooperation with the courts? From my experience in inter-resorship cooperation, it is regularly the court that has the least hearing of increasing competence in its work as well as the need for inter-resorship cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9244	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9245	I appreciate the question. Of course, what I'm going to say is that I see this particular weight both in the practice of the centre and in the conduct of the courts, I'm not going to say inertness, but I'm going to say that I know that such a decision is extremely difficult to make, but in acting in the best interests of the child often it's not. Very often such cases are being conducted in courts for an extremely long time and I think that in certain situations it should be more courageous, but I hold and again that further education of experts or judges and all persons working on such cases is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9246	Now it's my colleague Celliak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9247	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor's Attorney General. In the 2019 report, you stated that injuries to children's rights to education and education in the first place were for years the mayor of Sisak Kristina Ikić Baničeček unlawfully prohibiting the use of the Leden Hall of Zibel from using a Sisak hockey club. Despite decisions made by the competent institutions and orders of the sports inspection from 2019 that the disciplined members of the hockey club must be allowed dates in the Sisak Ice Hall, children from the club were given the terms only this season. Children from 8 to 13 years of age, two terms a week from half ten to half an hour in the evening. Primary school kids go to sleep at the time. How can your office protect the children that Sisak, along with his associates, has been discriminating for years, and now they are allowed a late term that affects their children's sleep quality, tiredness and concentration in teaching? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9248	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9249	So I have to say, in this situation, the last recommendation that came out of the office is the current covidal recommendation for the use of school halls. We know that children need physical activity, and these halls can only be rented under certain conditions, of course, under present conditions or according to this epidemiological situation. As for the very protection of children in the use of this hall, we ourselves are involved in all such cases, or recommend that children be allowed to be a priority in using it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9250	Thank you. We have three more replicas, the first one's a colleague, Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9251	Your Honor's Attorney General. Your goal should actually be equal to the right of children to childhood or future. When you look at the reports you've given over the past few years, you see similar problems, you'd even say the same, and there's a growing number of child rights violations. You have well noticed in your debate that this is an interdisciplinary approach to the problem and that it is the only way to solve it, the only problem is that this interdisciplinary approach, or interdisciplinary approach through the ministries and institutions, controls the government. To me, I have to admit in some way illogically that the government has not spoken after you what it has done about those problems over the past years and in what way and when it thinks of them, because actually the Government is the place that could solve the problems that you point to in a great way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9252	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9253	So here I thank actually for this comment, intersectoral cooperation is the only one that can lead to the improvement of the position of children in some concrete and answers to the needs of children, and in this sense we have called on, in fact, in certain cases but also in general the government to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9254	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9255	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Advocate, here is a short time ago that colleague Martincevic asked a question about foster care and problems, so with a growing number of foster parents, I would refer to this part of your report where you are talking about adoption. So you mention that on December 31st, 2019, there were only 75 children who met the conditions for adoption and 25 were actually adopted in foster homes without adequate parental care and services centres in the community. I wonder if it's a 25 final number or whether it applies only to these institutions, given that we're looking at numbers from the past few years, they're several times larger, so I'm wondering if there's been a certain decline and what the reasons are, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9256	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9257	So what I pointed out, which is that precisely because of maybe some of the unsuspecting events in the past year, there has been an increase in the number of children in institutions, but this figure is the final number that we have received according to the data because all the data we collect or which are listed in the report are data collected from the relevant institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9258	And the last line, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9259	Thank you, Your Honor. The esteemed attorney, she is visible year after year, and we know how much your responsibility is, but also us as a parent, and how complex she really cares about children and everything around them, how important family life and everything else is. What I would point out may be important to say just how important it is in this mandate that the capacity of kindergartens has been increased in cities, was in smaller areas because it is very important that the availability of children's kindergartens is everywhere because this is the way children's education and learning in all environments actually achieves equality and services, as well as the quality of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9260	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9261	Thank you very much for the actual comment that we make through our report, what is important is that every child has equal access in preschool or preschool, because it's the only way that every child has actually the same, I would say, starting position in life, and that's why we work and are numerous and campaigning, or we're involved in campaigns where it's actually about the importance of that part of growing children. Unequal representation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia includes children in kindergartens, is extremely unequal and in this sense requires additional work and engagement of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9262	Thanks to the D.A., you can go back to your seat now, we've come to an end with replicas, I have requests for a break, he's my first colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9263	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. Here we heard dry statistics on child rights violations. In Croatia, sexual maniacs living above children, paedophiles, have fewer penalties than when a fan drinks a beer in front of a stadium. They're more protected than face bears. We have a problem in Croatia of peer violence, we have a problem with family violence, many problems, but the fact is when we talk about children's rights, we need to talk about that in the Republic of Croatia in 2/3 of Croatia our children do not have the possibility of education, such as. in Zagreb. They have no right to kindergarten, 40% of local self-government units have no opportunity to allow for one kindergarten child. For one child. That's why we have the defeating results, the defeating results. In the Cetina region 10 years ago, 800 first-graders would be enrolled this year, 400. 400, these are the results of policies towards children. For what? Most children in these settlements are beautiful, hill-mounted mountain-mounted who are forgotten, in underdeveloped, have no water supply, no water in their households, parents cannot allow kindergarten, health service, transportation, to see which buses are transported, which are burned every two days, children are afraid to be sent. So look at the Imtoski area of how many schools are closed, the Cetin region, Zagora, Knin, the Sibenik hinterland, Mr. Kotar and you're talking about a few kindergarten buildings here? There will be no children's crying in 2/3 of Croatia. That's enough of the dry statistics. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9264	The other one came forward from a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go. Or did you give up completely? Well, then it's... You're looking for a break, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9265	So, I'm looking for a break though, but here I have to go first before I ask for it, essentially looking for it in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the secretary of the session, Mr. Bukarica, saw that I was looking for a break at that moment and I needed a break then and not now. I'd like to have a respected secretary of the session, a plenary session, when we've established eye contact and we've established, that immediately informing the chairman, in this case it's you, and that I'll get a break right away because at that point I needed a break and now I don't need any more. But here's when, when I'm here or when we already have time to talk, I'm going to say one more fact that's true, and it can also be looked at in the record from the board's session. So, the esteemed attorney to my explicit question is whether you're for the Istanbul Convention you said I'm against it, I'm against it. Later, because you must be at the mercy of Andrej Plenkovic, you changed your position on the Istanbul Convention. I said okay after that answer, if you're against the Istanbul Convention, you'll have my vote. Later, after a few weeks, or as soon as you were selected, you changed the board. Not only have you changed the record in terms of the Istanbul Convention, you changed the record and in terms of, we see now and prayer in schools. So, your prayer has become controversial, as if prayer threatens someone. Let him who is not a believer pray not, let him who is a believer pray. Let's let him know, let's let him have a chance to pray, and I don't see what's at stake. So I would like you as a person representing children to be credible and to speak the truth because the minutes of the session are extremely clear. So you just told a lie, you told me clearly that you were for Istanbul, after three weeks that you were against it. I'm sorry, the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9266	The apartment will be approved to you. Now it's MP Vidovic Kristo's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9267	... actually for three reasons. [[Speaker not enabled]] The first is the answer to the question of the honourable representative Stipi Mlinarić Chipi, Mrs. In fact, the lawyer presented one lie because yesterday, at a committee meeting, she clearly and unequivocally stated that she had made a decision on prayers and blessings on the basis of her personal opinion. The second reason is the question concerning the Child Protection Policy, in which I have clearly asked why the prosecutor, which is her duty, is not to pass on performances that point to potentially high-risk criminal activities at the expense of children, are not forwarded to the DORH, and as far as performances are concerned, the work of the Child Protection Policy. And when I asked if it was related not to the fact that it was related to the fact that the principal's daughter, Gordana Buljan Flander, an employee of the attorney's office, was being forwarded to the regular procedure. And yet I'm going to call yesterday's session and there's a phonogram saying she didn't do it. We have 5 performances in the last 2 weeks only where parents are bitter that these plays are not passed on to the competent authorities regarding the work of a polyclinic. No one's accusing anyone of committing a crime on our part. As Parliamentarians, we ask that these performances be forwarded to the authorities, that they be enlightened whether it is true or not. At the very least, it should be an interest and a polyclinic to be seen and to get rid of such an institution. And thirdly, I think that the lack of the attorney's work is in the context of punishing the criminal part of paedophilia, it's not normal and thank God in this assembly has been heard several times not well or enough to punish the perpetrators and predators and paedophiles for their crimes for general good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9268	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9269	... On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to talk about what the government has done in the past term and in this mandate to strengthen both family policy and social policy, all with the aim of strengthening and protecting the rights of our youngest, our children. [[Speaker not enabled]] When we talk about how rights are threatened and how they have failed, then it is said that they are institutions and institutions, but very often we forget that we are all, but we are all members of society, members of institutions and institutions, and that such a general transfer of responsibility does not free us from inaction or a situation with which no one is truly satisfied. It is very often mentioned that the important start is equal rights and equal opportunities for our youngest, and this is preschool education. Last year 2019 and 2018 300 contracts for the construction of kindergartens were signed precisely in rural areas, but you know what it will mean when they are built and when they are brought together, and 250 contracts were aimed at improving conditions in already existing kindergartens. What the government can do is very often heard here, but there's little hearing what local leaders need to do, and we're all part of the local environments. Namely, I'm going to say in the state of carlovakia, all the municipalities, so all the municipalities have kindergartens, regardless of whether they're environments where five children, 10 children, have kindergartens, and you know how? The empty space of large schools, large schoolrooms, and along with the school's joint efforts was used to ensure the school's work of education and education and preschool work, which is cheaper, and the government co-financed it. So, without criticism, we can do a little bit with self-critics. A lot to achieve. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9270	The apartment will also be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 55 minutes. It's 10.42 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.58 HOURS]] We're going to the hearings if one of the committee's reporters wants to come forward? Yes, there is a colleague Vidovic Kristo, president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9272	Ladies and gentlemen, an esteemed empty assembly or half-empty or almost completely empty, so yesterday we held a session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. We held a session with only one agenda point. Unfortunately, most of the board members' votes were rejected two points of the planned agenda. [[Intruder: Fellow Vidovic Kristo, just a little please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9273	Just a little bit, please. This is not your interpretation, you cannot speak sad, unfortunately, you have the right to report and read the report of the board, not interpret it the way you want it and what your position is. So you here are obliged to present the majority's position on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9274	Okay, well, I'm taking the floor unfortunately if she's colored with my emotions, so I'll let you know that most of the votes are rejected by two points of the agenda. The first is the proposal for a demographic measure... the purpose of the money from the state budget, and the second is the parent initiative of 0-24, the performance, given the epidemiological measures in the education system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we held a session with one agenda point and all sorts of things. So, the item on the agenda was the report on the work of the Ombudsman for the children for 2019. The applicant was the Ombudsman for the children and I will present the official report from the debate on this occasion. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the HS, chaired by the second meeting of the Committee held on 14 October 2020, discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2019, which was delivered to the president of HS by the Ombudsman by the Act of 31 March 2020. 87. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman stated that in 2019 the office acted according to 1741 of the registered report on infringements of individual rights of children, which relate to a total of 2 029 children and 309 groups of children. It's about the increase in the number of applications it says, by 10% compared to the year before. The most received applications included the inability to exercise educational rights, 391, the achievement of parental care 340, violence against children and child neglect 281, health rights 137, and the right to safety and protection 130. As all rights of the child are equally important, the document is very extensive and the Ombudsman believes that it is not just a report on the work of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children but rather a report on the state of the child’s rights in 2019, a number of highly conflicted divorce marriages is increasing, as one parent says, which negatively reflects on the life of children, especially when one parent tries to alienate them from another parent. Uncertainty due to the long-term length of judicial proceedings in which they apply, make key decisions for children, may have inconceivable consequences for children, according to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman therefore advocates the establishment of family courts, as provided for in the National Strategy for the Rights of Children. As a special problem in 2019, the Ombudsman records the problem of violence among children, especially online violence that is increasingly becoming live violence. In 2019, that year was also challenging for the right of the child to education in light of the fact that the school year 2019/20. Shortly after the beginning, she had a long-standing strike of employees. In the segment of education there is also an unequal availability for kindergartens, the possibility of ensuring a warm meal in schools, supporting children with developmental difficulties, all of which depends heavily on the possibilities of local and regional (regional) units. Additional efforts are also needed to protect children from poverty since statistics show that every fifth child is at risk of poverty. Poverty means not only a lack of money, but it affects the inability to exercise all children's rights, and ultimately leads to exclusion. The Ombudsman also considers the commission for early childhood intervention important and advocates strengthening it because it strengthens the capacity of parents and prevents the institutionalisation of children with disabilities. In order to ensure the maximum availability of children's rights, the Ombudsman indicated yesterday that she was appealing to all systems to strengthen cross-resorship cooperation because it is necessary. A representative of the government of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the basic features and reports, stressed that the government is committed to protecting children's rights, ready to co-operate and seek to improve the cooperation of all stakeholders in the process of protecting children's rights. In the debate followed by most committee members, the Ombudsman’s report for 2019 was supported. Since the lawyer’s actions go in the direction of making proposals and recommendations, it was asked whether the Ombudsman was satisfied with the adoption of her recommendations by the institutions he gives them, which is responsible for the fact that there are institutions that largely adopt recommendations, but there are also those who do not. The lawyer expressed dissatisfaction with the adopted and adopted recommendations. Regarding the question of the protection of children's rights of members of national or national minorities, it has been said that a large part of the application applies to children of the Roma People's Republic, but similar problems are being read from these applications, for example. the absence of the possibility of learning in the native language, literature in the mother tongue has also been added to the presence in children of other ethnic minorities. In the context of children's rights, children with difficulties requiring additional empathy and enhanced community support are also placed in the context of children's rights. The Ombudsman was asked a question on the basis of personal knowledge of the Ombudsman for neglect, abuse, sexual abuse or other criminal offences against the child, which she would have to report to the competent authorities of the DORH and the welfare centre, and propose measures to protect the child. Namely, the member of the committee has knowledge of the presentation or presentations of the Ombudsman with the elements from which it can be concluded that it is a criminal offence at the expense of the child. With regard to individual files, there is a type of response that the office is not competent to act when looking for concrete assistance. The question has been asked why are no measures taken under the powers of the Ombudsman? The lawyer replied that the office had certainly acted, and if there were errors in the course of action it would be a correction. In view of the recommendation of the Advocate General of the Ministry of Education and Science to mark religious content, for example, The days of bread, they do not maintain outside the teaching of religious science, the question has been asked whether it means that schools should not be marked as St. Nikola or Christmas, and how children’s rights are threatened if the celebration of the day of bread is organized. The lawyer said that there are complaints that show that certain schools or educational staff do not organise the teaching of religious sciences so that children who do not attend them are cared for by some other activities, so she suggested that the teaching of religious science be held at the beginning or at the end of the student’s day. The lawyer explained that religious programs should not be imposed on children of other confesions or atheists. Prayers and religious rituals are the opinion of the Ombudsman is not a place in school events because it says all children do not feel comfortable and welcome. Just marking the day of bread without prayer and religious rite is considered acceptable. So she pointed out her opinion. For the development of the children's budget, which was for the first time made by board members in 2019, they praised but found it necessary to monitor its further development and the possibility of improvement. In the debate, board members discussed the protection of children's rights in movement, children on islands and other target groups of children whose rights are at increased risk of violations, and should therefore be observed with greater attention. The recommendations of the Advocates are of paramount importance, and therefore the Committee member considers it necessary to make statistics that have not been adopted or that have been systematically adopted and which are made for them to be truly alive. Speaking of children’s awareness, their rights are alarmingly hard-core as to how few children know that they have the right to participate in making decisions that apply to them, how few adults know about this right, and yet it is even more worrying to say what not many professionals who raise children are aware of it. The members of the committee supported the Ombudsman in, some members of the committee supported the Ombudsman in an effort and a proposal for family courts to be established as necessary...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9275	My colleague Kristo, I would ask you only a little bit of this custom is to read a brief report, so we shortened the debate and this is completely disproportionate to the duration of the other discussions. So the report of the board is short, it reports to the Assembly on what is the conclusion of this, and it is not reading complete material for 20 minutes because it can be made up of an hour. So please bring your report to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9276	Is it acceptable for you to have about a minute and a half left?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9277	A minute and a half is fine, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9278	Okay. In connection with the lack of psychologists as expert associates in the schools, the Ombudsman stated that the office has been engaged for a number of years in just insufficient school employment. The office has a number of applications from schools asking for help in solving this problem. Unfortunately, the answer from the Ministry of Science and Education is that professional associates are also subject to a ban on employment. Since it has been noted that students often do not want to address teaching staff to solve problems especially if we are talking about peer violence, the lack of psychologists and other professional associates is a major problem. The debate also held that the right of the child to education was the most endangered in 2019, which was greatly contributed by the Ministry of Science and Education, which, according to the Croatian Parliament's representative, disobeyed the warnings and recommendations that came from MPs during the year. It believes that through the World Bank loan, education infrastructure needs to be invested so that some of the problems can be solved. The problem of assistants in the follow-up of any child who needed him was before we began to draw EU funds and when assistants were unequally available and depended on the possibilities of local and regional (regional) units of self-government. Now we have a larger amount of financial resources but the Ministry of Science and Education is taking away the opportunity of a large number of children to have an assistant in the classroom. In addition to peer violence and violence against children, attention has been paid to complaints of illegal, inappropriate, unprofessional and unethical treatment of educational workers towards children and the implementation and violation of child dignity. These are complaints that must not be ignored. After the discussion was held, the committee members decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly on the adoption of the Court's report on the work of the Ombudsman for children in 2019, with 10 votes for and 2 votes against. The report was voted against by an independent representative from the Association of the Homeland Movement Karolina Vidović Kristo and Marko Milanović litre from the Club of Sovereignists, for accepting the report voted from HDZ Ante Bačić, Vesna Bedeković, Ivan Budelić, Ante Deur, Nada Murganić and SDP members of the Committee Andreja Marić, Romana Nikolic, Irena Šimunić, Radojka Borić, and from the platform We can take you from SDSS Dragan Žekov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9279	Please, colleague Kristo, thank you very much, you've done your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9280	What did I say that you... An apology from my colleague, Boric. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9281	My colleagues and colleagues, since this has not been arranged for the Rules of Procedure, therefore reports on the work of the Committee and what the committees have concluded, have been used mainly so far to brief the presidents or vice-presidents of the Committee to introduce us to the conclusions. This is not the first time colleagues Kristo Vidovic have used this time and talked for 10-15 minutes or more. So, we're going to have to arrange this simple time for the committee's report on some shorter reasonable deadline because it's not logical to read the committee's report longer than there are discussions between clubs or individuals. It is not your fault, you have done as you can in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I am announcing that I will ask for club consultations to arrange that part of the Rules of Procedure to be proportionate and in line with the speeches of clubs and individuals. Let's go to the club debates now, the first is the club of representatives of HDZ, respected colleague Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9282	Thank you, dear representative HS. We've got a report in front of us on the children's counsel for 2019. and already, as we have seen from previous discussions so far, that we cannot be satisfied with the state of children's rights, how important all rights really are to separate them in these discussions, but there will be opportunities and will certainly be an emphasis on more that will now be missed in this debate. The D.A. says it's in 2019. 10% more applications, reports by individuals, adults, parents, associations, institutions, institutions. The Ombudsman also makes recommendations to institutions and institutions. However, what I would like to point out is that the application is also done by children, so the child's attorney's office is really present in the public and we can say that it is increasingly fulfilling its role. When we talk about the participation of children, we can also point out that there are advisers in his office from youth networks who also contribute to the participation of children in the decision-making process, that is to say, in order to hear their voice. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, is the year when we marked the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of Children, as well as the evaluation of the Strategy for the Rights of the Children of the Council of Europe since '16. until '21. Unfortunately, however, it will also be remembered that in that year, there has been a drastic threat to some, the rights of certain children through violence, the suffering of children within the family, the suffering of children in traffic and the loss of life. When we say that children appeared to us with the protection of their rights, they certainly came from their perception and from their activities which they are now committed to, which is the protection of the rights relating to education and education that they particularly culminated in a long-term strike, but also the children addressed the attorney for the rights and requirements of the parents who do not live with the child, as well as the decision of certain institutions in determining parental care. What we can especially point out is that the Ombudsman also points out, and we are all impressed that, after the dramatic loss of children on the island of Pag, the separation of children from families who are presumed to be unable to achieve an adequate parenting role and, of course, because of the lack of foster parents, specialised foster parents and professional foster parents there was also accommodation in institutions, which I do not consider to be evil in itself. When we talk about foster care, then we can say that fostering is a difficult job, that foster parents should be appreciated. We are very often, and even here for this speaker, heard that the fosterer has only economic reasons why he deals with the job, and that this job is much needed, much more than money can be paid for. All of us who have children of our own, and we have opportunities and sometimes to take care of other children, know that it is highly appreciated. What is very often said and constantly being said here and today, these are complaints about the achievement of parental care and the decision of individual institutions to be given parental care, especially when restricting or withdrawing parental care rights, certainly for certain professionals to have really big problems. This is certainly one of the most stressful jobs and decisions for all actors, and for children most certainly the most, for parents, for those who perform this act of taking children physically and certainly for those who take children and there should be taken care to pay full attention to professional work, prepared preventive long-term process and certainly support, support for those who have to do this hard work and make such decisions. In public, society is very often used as an attachment to one or another parent or to one or another actor in the whole process. My message is and the message of all of us should be to support the profession, trust the profession, we must not and cannot interfere with such decisions. Certainly, high conflict divorces and manipulations with children is something that is one of the most serious violations of the right of the child, a child I have always liked to say if the mother and father do not agree for sure that no court and I even welcome the attorneys to establish a family court, they will not be able to satisfy always there will be a party that is unsatisfactory, and in fact the most harms the child. I was impressed by a message where a child wrote, and I wish my mom and dad loved me more than they hated each other. The resolution of some unresolved partnership relations with children cannot be supported no matter how many times it is difficult for us to exclude ourselves as professional workers, but also as members of society. How significant and common 4,600 were the procedures of the social care centre in these situations, of which 736 measures were imposed in family legal protection, we have cases where parents were also punished and jailed precisely because of the very serious manipulation and abuse of children in this particular sense. What is important to all of us should take care of the best interests of the child regardless of when and what decision and measure it is. The interests of the child, the welfare of the child and the right of the child are above all rights of adults. Of course, it is regrettable that there are some parents neglecting and non-payment, we say alimony or restraint. The Maintenance Act has provided for a certain minimum that lasts for three years, however, the instrument is certainly not satisfactory and needs to be processed, even that legal possibility that such a parent should be punished and reported to the DORH has not fully revived, and that welfare centre is largely real and powerless. Care should certainly be taken of children’s health care. It is public now, and because of this covid crisis very often the question of vaccination is raised. Vaccination is the right to a healthy life of a child. The need to treat rare diseases with expensive medicines is also very common in the public. We all have to stand on that everyone, especially a child, has the right to a cure no matter how inaccessible or financial burdens are for the family, whether for the state. When we talk about violence, I will certainly say that violence should be cut in the roots in terms of prevention, and he that will agree that any violent treatment of children should be more punished. We need to be sensitized here, different and new forms of violence, sexual violence, and abuse are present in all forms, whether through social networks, whether physically or physically, and I think that is where we should advocate punishment, but also for the full protection of children. There are also other areas to talk about, this is child poverty, children's problems with developmental difficulties, children living in isolated environments, children of national minorities, especially Roma national minorities, but these are all areas to discuss, which are still touched in the report, but also certain measures by the government and the former and current orientations are to address these difficult situations, which we will particularly discuss. Strengthening family policies and social policies will alleviate all these difficult conditions in which our children are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9283	Thank you very much. It is now in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9284	Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed attorney. This year, 36,000 children were born in Croatia last year, and the mortality was 52,000. I'm going to remind those who are forgetful in the '80s that the birth rate was over 57,000, so we have over 20,000 declines in the number of live births compared to today, over 20,000. In your report, I didn't hear you pay any attention to what you were supposed to say, you mentioned it on the way, but almost nothing. Croatia's key problem is a demographic disaster, but it may be... in this way soon you won't have to work, because children will be so few that there won't be any problems or that the system will be able to take care of them adequately. It's for starters and it's very important and it has to be emphasized. Another thing I'm going to say here from this pay phone, and I already told you at the stop, we have some documents that break Croatian society, which are a division, we have some laws where people today determine whether they're left or right, whether they're conservative-liberal, whether they're sovereigns or globalists. One of those laws was the Istanbul Convention for which you told me on the board loudly and clearly that you were against it. After a few weeks when you were elected and when you got my vote, thanks to your attitude, you changed the board, you turned the board, you started saying that you were for the Istanbul Convention, and that's what's wrong. Be credible or now you're untrustworthy or now you're talking wrong or you're being then. Just make your own arrangements so we know where we are or you lied to me then or today you're lying to the Croatian public from the pay phone. The second thing when we talk about the Istanbul Convention is very important to emphasise that we Croatian sovereigns warned that it would not prevent domestic violence and did not prevent it. And you just said from your phone booth that we have 10% more cases, 10% more. And that's the key. We spend money, we throw it away, we give it to someone who knows who, and we have more cases of violence against both women and generally in the family. And that's not what you're talking about, that's the side theme. I repeat, the Istanbul Convention is a very expensive document that introduces gender ideology, and I'll prove it later and on the other hand it doesn't solve the problem that you told us we'd solve. Here's an update, since you've been a child counsel, which is that homosexual couples have also begun to foster children. Here we have one precedent, two happy fellows, nice neat beards, nice haircuts, and a modern European couple, they of course got the attention of all Croatian media and they got a nice chance to house the children. Great, great thing. Well, I wonder why, for example. Here are two fellow MPs here, regardless of their commitment, whether heterosexuals, homosexuals, did the team, do they drink green coffee, adopt a child, beg your pardon? Or maybe let's move on, the team that drinks beer on the wall on Saturdays, gather up five of them and say let's get a kid or a team that plays, card players, play cards or three neighbors say let's team up and look for a request for foster children. Where are our criteria? What criteria? Who can? Can a man and a donkey maybe host a child tomorrow? Football team, football team? So that's what's wrong and wrong and you pretend you don't see it and you made a nice precedent, great. Here we have set in this sense a modern European country, as the Croatian Parliament is doing in this sense the same progress is being made that we have more and more of those who are changing their sexual commitment, super, go ahead, we may also introduce quotas and for that, as we have for national minorities, so be it for these other minorities. So, the question of Roma, you mentioned and here I don't know who else mentioned how poor Roma couldn't participate in online sequels because they don't have pills, internets, etc. I agree, it is wrong, however, how many Croatian children, how many Czech children, how many Italian children, any national minorities in Croatia have no conditions to follow online teaching? Only one national minority is singled out here and we don't mention Croatian children? I personally know many children who have not been able to follow online classes because they have no internet, because they do not have electronic tools and we do not talk about them. We'll talk about Roma children. You said that, in order to quote you, to quote you tied to prayer school “inclusion of religious content in programs and contents intended for all students I consider the opposite interest of children of other worlds. ” But you've given your worldview with this very attitude, atheistic attitude. So this is a worldview, too. And atheism is ideology. I don't know, it's like you. like we have one kid at school who's disabled, for example. A blind child, then all children will have to wear a blindfold or that child in a wheelchair, let's all have wheelchairs for solidarity. My people, if it is God, if it is the days of bread, if it is St. Nikola, what's the problem? What is the problem with being marked transparently and not secretly? So someone doesn't get mad? It's not hate holidays, it's love holidays. Commons. It's Christian holidays. And Christianity has one meaning, which is the love of his neighbor, and what is the problem? But we're going to introduce atheism as an ideology, a worldview, and that's not the problem and you're imposing it. You mentioned transportation, I personally know especially in the city of Knin, from numerous villages children are not able to attend the continuation. They're crying kids out of trouble. There's no one to transfer them. Parents organize themselves. Here, intervene. The village of Padjane, for example, remember, write, call the Mayor of Knin and ask him why the children can't come to school. This is colleague Murganić, here she left the assembly room, mentioned she said she said it was hard for children to see when Mom and Dad were fighting. She can't tell Mom and Dad. Mom and Mom, Dad and Dad, Mom and Dad. That's the only thing that's right because today we can obviously have all the combinations. So, don't let our couple of neat beards get nicely cut, get offended, so here when we mention Mom and Dad, we mention both Dad and Dad and Mom necessarily. Because it's only fair and all right, according to what the attorney for the kids propagated. And now there's one problem that's really huge. I'll forget to say something, I had a hundred more things, but okay, one really big problem, and that's the problem with social networks, that's what you've been talking about here for a few seconds. The latest research shows that children are on average staying on social networks for 6 hours a day. 6 hours a day, Tick-Tok, Instagram, Facebook, I don't even know all those apps that exist. No one's talking about it. We have one generation of people with disabilities, children who just don't know how to behave normally in society anymore, they're not socialized because they've been on these gadgets all day, they've been online all day. In the morning, before they go to the bathroom, they take the phone. Not just kids, but we grew up, but at least we had one moment and a normal childhood, they don't have one. Their childhood was stolen. And to put yourself there according to this means social network providers, you mention it as one, one side thing in your report. As for the protest for normal life in Međimurje, so no one has anything against any national minority, however, has against violence, violence against Croats, violence against the Roma, violence against the Czechs, and I don't see why the Ombudsman would stand in defense or speak against one education that spoke against violence, it's insane to me. And in the end, when it was a professor's strike, you first sided with the professor, later the kids, make a deal whether you're in the union or you're a child lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9285	Thank you very much. Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Boric's first injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9286	Injury 238. The Rules of Procedure didn't stick to the subject. In fact, he started talking about the Istanbul Convention, I hope when he thought of a neat couple, neatly cut with a beard, I first thought he was thinking of himself, and otherwise he'd like to look back a little bit on child abuse for political purposes. So here's to his announcement when he mentioned the Istanbul Convention, the posters were showing a girl of eight. where schools said they had to decide they were male or female. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] The Ministry sent me an inquiry saying there were no complaints. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9287	Mrs. Boric no, no, I will have to give you a warning, Mrs. Boric regardless of the content I will have to give you a warning if you continue, which you did not. Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9288	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238 paragraph 5, as Mr. MP has been disdaining my question to the Advocate General about maintaining an online teaching for members of Roma nationality. I think we all have the right here to express our position and talk about a subject that is specifically specific to a representative and of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9289	Mr. Zekanovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9290	The same colleague as you have the right to give your position, I have the right to, and I, I've given the view of your position, it's legitimate. As for your replica, in fact, Mrs. Boric, I'm sure this couple who has fostered a child with these neat chins and finely cut that they will certainly raise a child in a heterosexual spirit, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9291	Thank you very much. First, Mr. Zekanovic, I have to warn you because you did not call on the article, and secondly I see that you have more information on certain topics than we all have about how certain groups are cut, etc., we do not have such information. And the third is these were replicas, and I would warn you not to replicate Mr. Zekanovic when he expresses his position, even if he was, he would not be in line with my opinion, it is his opinion and opinion of his party and he has the right to say it, and we have lost a little time in all this. Ms. Andreja Maric, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After careful reading of the Children's Attorney's Report for 2019, we conclude that the report is detailed, comprehensive, continuously invested with great effort and work to improve children's rights. But they're worried about the information that's being listed. The Ombudsman's Office for Children during 2019 received almost 10% more complaints, requests and enquiries than in the previous year. We have seen that 1,741 reports of infringements of individual rights of children have been handled, and even 933 cases have been transferred from previous years. It should repeat that the highest registration of rights violations in 2019 refers to personal rights violations in total to 737, educational rights 391, parental care, child abuse and child neglect, health rights, security and protection, followed by violations of children's rights in judicial proceedings, rights to protection of privacy, economic rights, social rights, cultural rights, violations in the field of foster care, adoption, etc. In all of these, it is necessary to protect children more effectively and strengthen social awareness. The overall impression is that the year-to-year non-compliance with legal regulations and obligations, slowness in problem resolution, unequal treatment of institutions and counties is recorded. We go in order in particular, with regard to the right to protection of privacy 76 individual cases of injuries related to the conduct of natural and legal persons, but also to institutions where children are temporarily or permanently located. It is pointed out that it is necessary to inform citizens and institutions systematically and continuously about the needs and ways to protect children's personal data and to adopt rules, codes and guidelines on privacy protection. In the right to live with parents and parental care, the problem is the treatment and attitudes of institutions again in relation to child manipulation in highly conflicted divorces that are not uniform. We support the establishment of specialised family courts in order to solve problems from that domain more quickly and efficiently. She worries that there is an increase in the number of children who are separated from the family and are housed because there are not enough foster families. During the separation of children from the family, professional work with parents is necessary in order to raise awareness of their own part of the responsibility for the accommodation of a child outside the family and to change inadequate behavior. Children with behavioral problems located in homes live in inappropriate conditions and do not receive the necessary treatment or support and should also be changed. Furthermore, on 31 December 2019, there were 75 children in foster homes without adequate parental care who had met legal conditions for adoption and only 25 adoptions were realised during the year. Is that in the children's interest? Are you as a state to me and as a society we can afford the rejection of individuals who have conditions and who want to foster a child and give him a family and a home. Unfortunately, the increase in the number of children without adequate parental care indicates that the deinstitutionalisation and transformation plan and the prevention of institutionalisation in 2018 until 2020 do not deliver the expected results. Furthermore, the problem of abstention. The question of which system hasn't yet been found to answer is how do they afford a restraint, not to pay, to start carrying out their obligation? Where are the institutions, regulations, education? It also concerns a high number of reports of violence and neglect, which in the family, are in educational institutions. And here there is a problem that schools are acting unequally both in response to violence and in preventive activities, there are not enough experts in professional services in kindergartens and schools, and the system does not approve of new employment. It is extremely important that an action plan for the prevention of violence in schools for the period 2020 to 2024 be implemented. In the system of education and education there are significant differences in its availability, and in the context of content, spatial, human and organisational conditions. The availability of kindergartens, transport to school, a warm meal, extended stay, education of children in health institutions during long-term hospital treatment are also unequal. Many applications refer to education of children with developmental difficulties. I'll just mention not providing support for the assistants in the follow-up that we witnessed at the beginning of the school year 2019 at 2020. We believe that increased empathy is needed for children with developmental difficulties of all segments of society. Then, 137 reports of violations of health rights were received. The highest 80 were parental rejection of vaccinations. We support the rights of children to health, prevention programmes, highlight the importance of mental health of vaccination, and it is certainly necessary to work on parental education, but also on healthcare professionals to improve communication with parents and increase general health literacy. The poverty of children, their social and economic rights, the exploitation of children for begging, property rights, inappropriate advertising, require a comprehensive approach, and children's rights and interests would certainly be protected by the application of so-called ". the child's budget you're talking about. The local community and countries must be more actively involved in greater availability and sport activities. Unfortunately, sports for children in Croatia is not free. During 2019. According to the MUP, 6859 criminal offences have been reported to harm children. It is 32% more than in 2018. Instead of falling from year to year, it happens the other way around, obviously things don't work out systematically and it needs to be fixed. Seventy-two criminal acts of sexual nature have been reported. For years, it has been warned of many difficulties in this area. The victim's child doesn't have adequate protection from the perpetrators, it's stigmatized, his privacy is being violated, and at the end of all the punishments for the perpetrators are too mild. There is again inequality in the conduct of state attorneys and judges for youth. In 2019, there is a large number of car accidents, which must also be indirectly concerned by all segments of society. The safety of children in playgrounds and playgrounds is questionable. According to the Ombudsman, concerns have been expressed that no competent authority has yet been designated to propose the text of a comprehensive regulation on children's playrooms. The rules on how and how to implement educational support and professional treatment of students at risk of developing behavioral problems and students with behavioral problems have not yet been adopted. There is insufficient inter-resorial support and co-operation in cases of violence. Due to the many years of unaltered status, an action plan has again been proposed to improve the rights and interests of children in the country for children with behavioral problems, and we hope that this will also happen. Certain trials against minors take an unwarranted length of time. Although there is a shift in the best, in the protection of the rights and interests of the children of the prisoners, their position needs to be further improved. Furthermore, the role of the media is important in protecting the privacy of children. The existing Law on Electronic Media offers a good framework for protecting children's privacy, but in practice these rights are rarely violated. The impact of social networks and violence that children are exposed to from these platforms, the dependence on computer games, the poor digital environment affects the rise of deviation in child behavior and the increase in violence. There is also an important positive role of the media, the application of filters to remove bad content on the Internet, the impact of educational institutions and of course families. Children need to be systematically taught tolerance, not discrimination, acceptance of diversity. Therefore, in this occasion too, we stress the importance of introducing civic education into educational institutions because children should be educated from the earliest age. The system in the Republic of Croatia still does not recognise vulnerable groups as possible victims of human trafficking. Of course, children must not be victims of discrimination and violence. Measures to protect children must be more urgent and effective with the co-ordinated activities of institutions, inter-resorship cooperation and employment of additional numbers of experts, and we have seen that there are shortcomings there as well. Children's awareness of their rights and adult consciousness should be increased. The inequality in child rearing should be reduced to the least possible measure, and we absolutely agree and support it. Unfortunately, the information we learned yesterday from the attorney's office on the parent board that of the 132 proposals sent from the attorney's office, 12 were accepted, 24 received notice, and 96 was not accepted. Why wasn't it accepted? The SDP club will support the prosecutor's report for children. We encourage you to continue in a consistent manner to identify and warn children's rights violations, to make proposals and recommendations to improve the situation of children, and to the government, the resolution ministries, institutions and all of us, including the whole community, is to make greater efforts to cooperate to ensure that our children have equal chances. No matter what has happened so far, we feel that there is much room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9293	Thank you, too. Now Mrs. SDSS will speak before the SDSS's Club. Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9294	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed Ombudsman for the children, representatives of the ministries, resolute ministries, I welcome you. As we had the opportunity to hear more than once, we are talking about the 2019 Attorney General's Report, and in fact this is an opportunity to talk about all the problems that concern children's rights in the Republic of Croatia and the details on which we are very specific about this report by the Ombudsman and pointed out. It is evident that all of us in this country have a right, we have an obligation to worry, we have a serious and reason to worry because this is a first-class patriotic issue because it concerns our children, and then their future, which should probably be the most important thing to all of us. You presented the data or work of your office in a very detailed and comprehensive manner, and certainly this report is a very useful tool for the activities of all those in the Republic system who are in charge of taking care of children's rights, and without concrete and detailed information you will agree, it is not possible to work unless we have all of this in one place, the concrete state of things when it comes to children's rights. Already, the figures mentioned in this report are precisely 1741 new subjects, i.e. reporting, about how much of a problem this is that we cannot be satisfied with the situation. Obviously, the increased number of applications and the number of cases tells not only that there is a high awareness that every form of violence needs to be reported, especially the one on children, which is certainly good because it means that people have regained consciousness and have begun to report any observed violation of child rights. We notice that the most application of course comes from parents, a large number of those from the community or from the place where rights violations occur, means that people are aware and can change things thanks to the institution, in this case the Office of Advocates for Children. It does move things a certain way forward. But we also see that interventions, so first of all, are recommendations that he has as an attorney for children to be realized around 50%, and that's actually a key point. Whether or not we can move matters towards the better, and we should insist on that and that the bodies addressed by the Ombudsman must actually respect and respond to the higher percentage and then satisfy the recommendations that I have said were only in half in this case. It seems, however, that we must be open and admit that we are not able to track everything that comes through new technologies as a potential danger to children's rights, which is why I draw attention to how many problems we have in so-called. Cyber violence where, as I said, we have to admit that a good part of our parents is not able to control or monitor, anything that is a potential threat to the use of computers, cell phones and the like. Children can easily access information this way, especially through social networks, on which certain non-good behaviours are suggested and which are not socially acceptable. This issue needs to be addressed specifically by the school system, everyone in this system because it needs to be reached by schools because this system is actually the most usable system, at least it should be the most usable. Why do I say that? Because it is said in this report that there are data showing that schools do not have enough effective ways to prevent and combat this type of violence. Reports also point to the frequent occurrence of psychological and verbal peer violence in the form of insult, demeaning, exclusion and are rarely associated with child safety. Peer violence between children and teenagers takes a frightening turn on the Internet and mobile phones, and police data e.g. show that at least 25% of children or adolescents in the Republic of Croatia were victims of such violence. Each fifth child said that several times or often, they received offensive messages or comments through a facebook and more than half of these applications were children who asked to stop. As many as 16% of children admitted that someone broke into their profile and published unpleasant things about them on their behalf, and 15% received a threat at least once through a facebook. In such cases, of course, every child who is already a victim is required to resist reporting and certainly to confide in an adult who has the highest confidence. The consequences of suffering such pressure are devastating because the victim feels helpless, lives in fear, retreats in everything, has a bad picture of himself, feels insecure and loses confidence, tends to be depressed, often sees no way out, and then eventually has the most dramatic consequences in flight cases. It is important to meet children with the dangers of using social networks, but I will also take this opportunity to say for the speaker that such acts are punishable by art. 178. A criminal code describing the offence of violation of the privacy of a child who may also be committed through a computer network and prescribed prison sentences if such an act has caused anxiety or other damage to his well-being. Most children do not know, neither do parents, and it is important to take advantage of that opportunity, and it is important that any such case and form be reported. A kind of link through social networks affects actors more than we can imagine and the consequences are long-term, alarming and unfortunately lately increasingly and tragic and certainly cannot be ignored. In short, just finishing this story on social networks, I will say that it is unacceptable, therefore, to vary, unprepared and inadequate reaction of certain educational workers to the challenges of education and education in a multicultural and pluralistic society, can leave negative consequences for children and their relationship with others. When I say so, I mean, first of all, members of the Serb national minority, children of members of the Serb national minority who go through teaching according to one of the laws envisaged in 2019, which was in 1937. There were certainly those who were victims of peer violence because of their nationality, especially in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, which police reports from 2019 say, and unfortunately, in the report in 2020, I believe this data should have been an integral part of this report in the work that speaks of discrimination against members of the Serb national minority. I will end up with the fact that I certainly support all 15 guidelines that relate exclusively to the improvement of the rights of children and that I am a position like my club, that the children's defender's institute must also remain an independent and specialised institution for the protection and improvement of children's rights, independent of day-to-day political turmoil, sovereign in decision-making and loud in the demands of the protection of those who, as I said at the beginning of this debate, are the future of our country. All in all, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS supports your work and will support this report as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9295	Thank you very much. You have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9296	Thank you very much. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, in this work where we have to fight peer violence, but the fact is that when you talk about the act of violence against the children of the Serb national minority, then I have to tell you and you have to know it as part of the majority, that only history, two history, the only state in the world and the only city in the world is Vukovar where the national minority of Serbs learns one history and Croatian students of another history, It's unimaginable, and you rule in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And it needs to be changed urgently. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Children must learn the same history in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9297	I'll have to give a warning just for the sake of time, but once again, I don't know which time, I'll read the article. 238, because from now on, I'm going to make warnings, and I'm not going to do this right now. Art. 238, the representative must not speak about a subject that is not subject to discussion, speak without the president's prior approval, I underline it, to his incursions or in some other way to interfere with the speaker, I also underline, to start talking about another topic which he did not get the floor for if he reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm undermining. Disdain or insult the chairman or other representatives, step down from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly or otherwise disrupt the order at the session. You gave as you know a good replica, I read it, I do it every time I say that from now on the replica will be sanctioned by warnings. - Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric, Club of Green-Left Block Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9298	My colleagues and colleagues, the Green-Left bloc club will accept the attorney's report for children, you've all talked about how comprehensive this report is, certainly from its 308 pages, what's very important, here they tell me that they can do without the mask, what's important is to say that it's precisely the goal of this report and also our goal and our fight to protect children's rights not only point to their position, which shows us the report but how to protect them from all of this that we've noticed is happening to our children. What I'm going to talk about, I'm only going to talk about one segment and it's also pointed out today, about increasing the number of applications in the field of education rights, and we shouldn't be surprised that in this segment there are actually the largest number of applications if we know that every child in Croatia is 5 children living in poverty, but of course if we know that 1/4 of Croatian citizens, so their parents or their foster parents live on the edge of poverty or have already exceeded that edge. So, besides talking about inadequate material conditions in education, i.e. in schools or kindergartens themselves, we talk about the position and position of teachers, teachers, teachers, but we also talk about what the system of education looks like to us. So what we noticed and how we saw from the complaints whether the parent, whether the institution, the most in fact and related exactly to the story and poverty is the inequality of children in education. We know that all of us, there are more of the same or the same than the same, but in children, we cultivate such inequality, and then we may wonder what's going on between us and what happened two days ago. Parents rightly complain about the unequal possibility of access to content in the educational process, and thus we have discrimination against children based on the very property situation. This is not just about the possibility, today we talked about the inaccessibility of schools, the distance of schools from the place of residence, the weaker traffic i.e. transport connections, inequalities in schools that have a double education, schedule hours between electoral and regular subjects, inconsistencies in the work of kindergartens with the work of parents, so these problems cannot be solved by children and the problems must also be solved by institutions. See for example. that we do not have children of unemployed parents involved in some form of preschool education, so as it is possible that it is an advanced discrimination with which opportunities, so the parent is unemployed and the child does not yet have what we call a preparation for school. Could there be more discrimination? A large number of schools, and in particular you saw in the Dalmatia report, do not offer the possibility of a cooked meal in schools. What this assembly should be advocated for, and this government is a free hot meal for all children just to reduce this property-related discrimination. See what it means for children of extracurricular activity, unless children of poor families can go on a planned trip not to talk about proms. See what happened with the extracurricular activities so today my kids are paying for sports activities, we're surprised to see more obesity in children when other than poor school hours, every hour whether kids are training football or training ping pong or anything they have to pay for. How is that possible? Whom do they benefit then and additionally in schools where additional, additional sports activities are being performed? So, what we should definitely be saying is that we can't speak on one side of the report, it's said that there were the most complaints in the work because of the strike of the educational workers, so the strike certainly didn't come to respect those, and today we didn't talk about those who educate our children, what is their position, what is their reputation. We can also, of course, talk about how a part of the people in the system discriminates against children or is inappropriately speaking to them. So the whole society forgot that there must be synergy between all the factors in order for our education to be not discriminated against by children. And lastly, we would like to say, we have witnessed in the first of this ruthless event, and you have that in all schools according to the Agency for Science, Education, it is a mandatory interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary content of civic education and education, and only a little more than 2,200 students attended civic education as an electoral university or somewhere and a mandatory subject. It is recommended by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child that it is necessary to strengthen human rights education just now to reduce the hate speech that has been spoken of here and inter-excelral violence, and finally that children know their rights as they would not be abused by all others, by peers or by the system itself. Also, I think it's important that without civic education, if we don't educate you at this point you don't have regular programs at university you don't have in educational institutions content around children's rights that our teachers and our teachers would learn, so we need that too. It is also recommended that no one here has talked about the participation of students, if we are talking about children's rights here, if children know their rights especially to students, which is with student councils, how to include them and create a decision on the curricula, what these children will learn when asked except for some research, how we will increase information and consultation of children. In that sense, I think it's very important that we think if we teach those kids who, when they graduate from high school, are not children how they're going to be citizens if we leave civil relations, education. Here you should perhaps also praise the report, no one has looked back, perhaps someone will, which is very important with the children of the search for international protection, I think that Croatia is showing sensitivity to children who have come to our borders regardless of what accident has made them here whether refugee or migrant. Also here, there is no Mr. Zekanovic, which worries that there is an increase in the number of children separated from the family and placed in homes because there are no foster families. On the other hand, if they are accusing foster families, then the children are in homes where we have complaints about how they live and how they are treated in these homes, and yet I hope that Mr. Zekanovic will change his mind because the children who lived in the homes expressed a desire to love to adopt them and the giraffe without staying in a home where no one cares for them. And as far as I know, there is really no concern about how children will be raised in the family, in any kind of family if there is love in the family. And there is no study that has shown that children raised in same - sex families show other tendencies than we do as a community. And one more thing to say, no one here has talked about child abuse precisely for political purposes, activist if you want the purposes without valuable courts to what kind of gatherings the children are bringing, I have to say that according to the Law on the right to access to information I asked when, here was the Istanbul Convention, I asked if the Ministry of Education had been filed a complaint, and it was standing on a big poster, so on a jumbo poster that was supposed to be paid, there was a picture of the girl where she stood, at school telling us that I had to decide whether I was a man or a woman. According to the Law on the right to access information, I received no complaints, not even a phonogram. So, a year has passed, and I'd like to ask someone to deliver one of my parents' complaints about what the Istanbul Convention has done bad at the harm of a child?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9299	Thank you, ma'am. Boric. Mr. Sacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9300	I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I hope I've been looking very well for Mrs. Boric severely injured, insulted the institution of foster care, Croatian institutions that care for our children abandoned. Allegorically speaking, she said they'd be better off with a giraffe home than staying in a home. Those are terrible words, ma'am. Rado Boric, please don't say that. A lot of people, a lot of money has been invested. A lot of hard work and love for children in the home to live like that [[Intruder: Thank you]] The lack of parental love to make their lives come true there. [[/Intruder: Mr. Sacic, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9301	Thank you very much. I need to warn you about two things. First, you didn't call on the article, come on, it's bureaucratic, but I have to because I already gave it to your colleague Zekanovic for it, and I can't make any discrimination. And secondly, because you're in art. 238, no such, I've read it to you before, there are no such provisions. This belongs to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9302	An injury to the Croatian institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9303	Don't do it, because then the third one with the raids, so I'm gonna have to use the third one. Uh, ma'am. Boric expressed her opinion, and you have the right to disagree. I also told Mr. Zekanovic in the defense of Mr. Zekanovic before he had the right to his opinion. - Mrs. Crescent. Boric has the right to his opinion, and in Art. In 238, not only are the giraffes standing, but they stand none, that no one stands, the inability to make comparisons. That doesn't stand. Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Puljak will speak in front of the club, it was, it was, it was, it was a reminder, ma'am. Marijana Puljak Club of IP, Smart and Voice Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9304	I would like to thank the chairman, the esteemed attorney, dear colleagues and colleagues. As with other attorneys, we therefore express our full support in the work of the Ombudsman. We will support this report, as has already been said, very detailed and comprehensive and with concrete recommendations that we support. What we, at first to say little, miss in this report is a comparison with past reports or some kind of statistics, so how many recommendations have been accepted last time, realised, how many new recommendations, so this should be some standard in this type of report, and it seems to us that it is very important that the recommendations are repeated and which institutions are constantly ignoring these recommendations, so also to the level and political if you want and personal responsibilities, so this is very important. This report is therefore for 2019. It is especially important today in the pandemic era because it is now seen how important it is to prepare in time, so when there is no crisis, to prepare preventive measures and to work on risk prevention at a time when there is no crisis. We've heard of it in '19. Almost 10% of new applications, complaints and various queries have been received, and if you look at since the data has been monitored since 2008. There were 847 individual violations of children's rights, in 2019 we reached 1741 by accident or double. I'll take this opportunity to point out some details of the attorney general's report. These are 3 points, an increase in domestic violence, problems with the foster care system and adoption of children and violations of children's rights to education and education. As far as domestic violence is concerned, there is indeed a dramatic increase in domestic violence cases, as much as 56% more than in the previous year. In particular, it concerns what is said to be, that the actual number of cases of violence is likely to be higher, that a large number of cases are not reported because of fear, shame and mistrust in the system. In addition to the increase in the number of reports of domestic violence and concerns, its increasingly difficult forms. Also, in terms of peer violence, schools act unequal, do not react equally to violence, do not have uniform preventive activities. The prevention programmes applied are not all scientifically justified or evaluated, the pronunciation of pedagogical measures is not accompanied by professional interventions against the child, and the school's conduct in violent conduct is sometimes insufficient and is not in compliance with the regulations. So this is also a particular problem is that there are not enough experts in the professional services in kindergartens and schools, and the system as it is now set up, so it does not approve of new employment. As for the problem of fostering and adopting, one of the details that was talked about in public, here is also mentioned here, that is, in public when talking about him was not meant for the welfare of children, some other things were pointed out, and that is, you remember how much trouble there was a couple of life partners who expressed their desire to be foster parents. They had to lead their struggle to a administrative court that ruled in their favour in December last year. Afterwards, the Zagreb Centre for Social Care in mid-January again rejected the request for foster care by ignoring the administrative court's position and then published a decision in February and the Constitutional Court which concluded that the courts and the competent authorities are obliged to allow all on equal terms to participate in the public service of fostering. What's the most important thing in this whole story? It's often out of sight, it's children and their well-being. Children need love, and what are the facts with the foster system, today in Croatia can be seen from this Attorney General's Report. Therefore, the number of children in institutions has been increased and many requests for accommodation in institutions, the territorial representation of foster families is uneven, there is no professional foster care, the number of foster families is even smaller than before, the lack of foster parents is even more pronounced in urban environments, especially in large cities, there are no specialised foster parents trained to provide care for children with special needs and children with specific physical and mental difficulties. There are no foster families to accommodate children in crisis situations and children for up to 3 years of life. The problem is also a high age and low education structure of foster parents, insufficient support for foster parents, insufficient education and supervisory and unequal quality and supervision of services provided by foster families. So there's a lot of problems with the foster care system. The foster families are getting smaller and smaller, so everyone who wants to be foster parents should be able to become foster parents, regardless of their sexual orientation. Care should be taken of the child, his wishes and needs, as well as the competences and capacities of those who will provide foster care. When it comes to adoption, the number of children in institutions with established assumptions of adoption remains high. Here I would like to highlight a practical problem which has not yet been solved, which has been awarded by the new OIB to children adopted under the 2003 Family Law. They cannot be determined by the new OIB, so the existing legislation does not provide equal legal treatment and equal legal protection for their adopted children. This is how adoptions are discriminated against, they are threatened with privacy because there is no single database of all public and state institutions. We see from the report that the Ombudsman recommended the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, to supplement the regulations and the Family Law and the OIB Act, however, this has not been done so far. At the end of the violation of children's rights to education, in numbers, unlike all previous years, violations of these rights came first and are said to have been caused by a large number of complaints about the strike in educational institutions. There is a lack of access to education and education for individual groups of children, as well as a continuous stagnation of quality of education. This is, I would say, a devastating fact for a country in the 21st century, an EU member. So, one report says that there is a stagnation of the quality of education. I'm going to ask this question, and what about the rights of gifted children? Potentially gifted children are in the same way in an unfavourable situation as children with developmental difficulties. In the previous term, an initiative was launched to pass laws on gifted children, students and young people. These gifted children, gifted students are briefly mentioned here in the report and are said to have been recommended to systematically resolve the education of gifted students and to adopt a sublegal regulation that would regulate the rights of gifted children and provide financial resources for its practical application. One more thing in education that I often point to. According to the ministry, this is now August data. 822 schools in Croatia work in two shifts, 14 even in 3 shifts. You had recently, until recently in Solin and one school, a primary school that worked only in 4 shifts, so schools with 2 or 3 shifts passed the teaching year according to ministry data attended 278,580 students, which makes up 60% of the students. One high school in Croatia even works in 3 shifts, it is a health school in Split. Modern countries that care about education, not only do they not know the work of schools in three shifts, they don't know the meaning of the word shift at all, they don't know,.../incomprehensible/... school even in two shifts, so I haven't seen any recommendations in this report. Despite the need for an extended stay in elementary schools that would organise and finance local self-government units, parents therefore indicated that the service was rarely available. The national pedagogical standard provides for the organisation of an extended stay with at least 14, as a rule 20 students and this was to be achieved by 2012. We are today in 2020. At the needs of children and parents for extended school stay, there is also an increasing need and interest in a warm cooked meal at school, i.e. a healthy school diet, and I can testify, here is that a large number of schools, especially in Dalmatia, do not offer the possibility of a cooked meal in schools, and a warm meal in schools should exist standard and we must provide it equally to our children in the area of Croatia. Education is the foundation of modern society, children are our future. These are often passwords, passwords that we often hear before the elections, but here, let's try not to leave it just a dead letter on paper and in the Ombudsman's report for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9305	Thank you for your accuracy. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr. Nino Rasudic will speak. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9306	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've carefully read 283 pages of this report, reports of the attorney general's work and the work of a serious one, I'd say, a big, powerful office. It is an institution with an annual budget of 5 637 410 kuna and 22 employees. Three state officials, a lawyer and her two deputies and 19 civil servants, including 10 lawyers. So it's a very large office that spends a lot of money, which has a lot of employees, it's well-accepted and has a strong legal foothold on the Law on Child's Attorney to act at different levels. However, although at first glance it is clear if we see a gap between the size of that office, the money it spends, the number of employees and what we got on this 283 page, and this is mostly one description of the situation with a lot of statistical data and the MUP, and the social services centres and then which memos were sent by the attorney and her office and some general recommendations. The impression that you are the first to leave that such a report does not justify the size and cost of that office, but on the other hand, in practice you can see that in that office some profiles of experts are missing. For example, there is only one sentence of a very ghastly word about online threats, and I quote "unsatisfactory prevention and action in relation to psychological violence in the form of insult, demeaning, social networking exclusions, most often in classy Viber and Whatsapp groups." And that is that. It is too small, calculated given how many children are on the Internet and how involved they are, how much their lives and socialization are structured and determined by social networks, the Internet in general needs to act much more seriously here and should act proactively. There are no concrete proposals missing. In particular, in this office, it seems to me that there is a digital environment expert missing a good part of our children's lives. Also, the School of Life is mentioned along the way, not to mention the problem of exposure to children's screens. Something that France, for example, gave up and in our case, represented as the highlight of advanced schooling to push kids with cheap Chinese pills, and here, that solves the school's problems. There is no mention of the word “Tik-Tok” at all and the children are very much on Tic-Tok because there is a possible something of these campaigns to formulate and present through Tic-Tok instead of some old-fashioned channels that are children, the truth is such, boring and boring or not perceptive. The biggest problem last year in terms of children's rights, the general problem, was a strike of educators, and the question arises as to what was the lawyer and her office, which they did to protect children's rights in that situation, holding the lawyer was very unconstitutional, at the very beginning of the strike, she de facto supported the requirements of the educators, noting correctly that investing in teachers was a great deal and investing in children. In order for the strike to last, she would withdraw more and more saying that it was some kind of adult dispute and that children wanted to make arrangements. And what I find scandalous is the lack of a government meeting and representatives of the three education unions held by 20. 11th of last year, the lawyer was invited to. She did not come to the meeting for criticising both trade unions and ministers, so both sides, and an even more scandalous explanation was that the prosecutor was not coming, she explained her work in this dramatic situation for children by telling her that she had other obligations related to the anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I quote: “Today is a great day for my office, a great jubilee is celebrated. From the early hours of the morning, I have been in different places for the strike and for the celebration of this convention, which is my priority today." So now I wonder if the Ombudsman and her function are their own purpose, so it is more important to celebrate this form of anniversary of the convention and miss out on the content, what the Convention warns? These are children's problems, at the moment a strike which is a burning problem and a huge stress and misunderstanding for most children in Croatia. On the question of a journalist then “could anyone else come from the office of these 21 other employees?”, we received the answer “how do they have a big day today too, so they had a lot of obligations.” There was a lack of reaction when we talk about the D.A.'s school to something that's been pushed so far across the media and through public television, and that's a de facto encouraging children to not come to school on Fridays because children should be willing to fight climate change by coming to the ministry. The D.A. had to react to it is the place of children is in school, school and education are the most important for children. And everything that drives them, which encourages them to mark is bad, and that's where the D.A. had to react. When we talk about the absence of concrete measures, point 5, 2.2., which speaks of the economic exploitation of children and the problem of the use of children for begging, the fact is that the police have not identified any case of child abuse for begging. So now I'm wondering why this D.A.'s office hasn't used its legal powers and that's to press the M.O.P., how it's possible that no one's registered and we see children being used for begging every day on our streets, which is the saddest part of the crossroads. In the event of a major threat to the rights and interests of children, the Ombudsman may submit special reports to the Croatian Parliament in these cases. I think it is essential that a special report is now in a state of the coronavirus pandemic and all the torments that children go through this year, what happens and doesn't happen in schools, that an extraordinary report on the condition of the first children in the coronary crisis should be submitted. Somehow the greatest publicity and that's a lot to talk about, the Ombudsman got her thesis about this religion at school and some manifestations about faith in school spaces. To the journalist's question "is it a religious place in school or should it be returned to the Church?" The lawyer answers "this is an important issue to be discussed and to allow the arguments of all stakeholders, churches, parents, students, the Ministry of Education to be heard". Why should we discuss whether religious is a place in school? That's a long deal, it's 200 years in Croatia, in all European countries except France and Slovenia, so why leave the impression that this should be discussed in the first place? It is particularly problematic that the office sees as a problem that often religious content in some schools is practiced outside the teaching of religious sciences, for example. when holding school events, which we find unacceptable. This is now going in that direction “How Grinch Stole Christmas, ” that means that the Christmas event is unwanted at school or St. Nikola? This is directly broken by what is in point 26. it is cultural rights, leisure time and sport where it stands that the right to cultivate its own culture, free cultural artistic expression, the right to access information, the right to confess their own faith and the right to their own language to rest, leisure time, play and recreation all these children achieve in families, schools and free time areas. How do you even determine what is religious and what is culturally identical? Will this convention lead to the ban on Marulic because he sees the miraculous beginning of Croatian literature is true Judith, a Bible story, a Bible motive. So is that insulting someone? So shall we start with the first one, call the secular writer, and forget about Marulic? What about Bach's H-Mole Mass on music? Is that insulting someone's feelings? What about the Sibenik Cathedral if we go on a field trip to Sibenik is a child who does not go to religious school to show the Sibenik Cathedral? How do you distinguish this object's religious function from its architectural beauty? So these are all the absurds that this approach leads to. Which is contrary to the interest of children of other worldsmen, let's say in the Christmas event or St. Never? Well, we also have a halloween that's not even part of our tradition, but something more we can call paganism, so I don't think it's a problem if some kids who stick to it are going to carve up and put a pumpkin in school. So a kind of unnecessary antagonism and moral panic is created among children about things that are part of tradition and normality. So I'm finally going towards the end. The Ombudsman must propose concrete legal solutions, concrete public campaign measures all of this allows her to have the Law on the Ombudsman for children, and this is not happening. So she was not doing enough to do what she was supposed to do, and she got involved in something that wasn't her job, and the good part could be interpreted as an ideological re-creation of society. So given this, such an office, so much money this thin our club can't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9307	Thank you very much. It is now in front of the National Minorities' Club of Representatives, Col. Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9308	Thank you. ... /A speaker away from the microphone./... Your report mentions Roma children in many places, on the one hand, it is good because we see that you have detected and seen the problem facing the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, this is a defeated indicator because it is precisely this number that points to the amount and weight of the difficulties of the Roma community where, as in all segments of society, children are the most vulnerable group. Certainly among the biggest problems are the situation of national motivated problems and violence among children in schools that you say have lasted for years, and schools have taken nothing, and the first real step would be to introduce a civil education programme aimed at learning human rights, tolerance and accepting differences. The events of such a species are very stressful for children of any nationality, which only further underlines the complexity of the issue of the status of the Roma national minority and the fact that all parts of our society should be included in its resolution. Unfortunately, we also have complaints about discrimination against children of Roma national minorities at school precisely from those who should fight discrimination first, which are teachers and teachers. So we have educators who used to call Roma children gypsies during their education, tell them other bad words, tell them that they knew nothing, and some even physically punish them. Addressing problems with bus transport or violence in buses and bus stations where joint activities of the school, the centre for the social care of carriers and Roma parents solved the problem shows that it can be done when there is a certain will. Clearly, one of the main causes of the problem is the standard of living is the children of Roma families, or the situation in Roma settlements. I don't think I have to particularly stress the state of infrastructure and conditions in these settlements because I'm afraid it would take all the time of my speech. I am glad that the Ombudsman was responding to a protest called "For a Normal Life" that was everything but a peaceful and constructive protest. It was an open anti-Roma protest, and I was already discriminating his name. Because what does normal life mean for protest organizers? Since they spoke in protest against the Roma, it is obvious that their normal life is the one without the Roma themselves. Clearly today it is the Roma, tomorrow some other national minority of Serbs or Bosniaks or some third, so persons of another political belief etc. Because how else to call a protest that was intended to strengthen the sense of fear and unwantedness in the Roma community. I welcome the lawyer's actions which she made clear that she is working directly against the Roma and has appealed to the competent authorities. This event was particularly problematic because it marked the entire Roma community as a problem, and the acceptance of activities directed directly against Roma, which unfortunately supported part of the local authorities by contributing to the social stigmatisation and discrimination of the Roma themselves. In addition, maintaining such a protest further strengthens the fear and uncertainty of Roma children and develops the feeling of their unwantedness in the environment in which they live. The Ombudsman also pointed out that she talked to the students and that they showed a dose of fear of war or conflict between members of the majority and minority people. It is traumatic that when children speak of their peers and fellow citizens, they use the names Croats and Roma as opposers. A protest like this certainly does not help to reduce tension and overcome differences. But what we can help with is education. It is a prerequisite for providing space in Roma settlements for maintaining activities with children, various workshops, counselling and the like. I don't know how much in this regard we can expect from local authorities because so far they have not provided conditions for the normal work of the council of the Roma national minority. Roma children should be given greater availability of preschool education and more effective measures of family legal protection, as well as activities, education and counselling for parents. Let's look at some statistics, when it came to protecting the rights of children where the number of applications increased compared to last year, and there were 47, year before 30. Of these 47, even 33 concerned the exercise of children's rights to members of the Roma national minority. Unfortunately, preschool education is still unreachable for many, for many Roma children in the Međimurje County area, so-called. Roma classes and Roma schools. As noted, there is still a trend for Roma students to leave school, especially in the system of secondary education and education. I must say that lack of financial opportunities is a key reason why young Roma aged 15 to 18. They're dropping out of school. Let's remember last year, there was also a situation where 12 Roma children from one kindergarten due to a delay in the payment of the Ministry of Science and Education to co-finance the parent's share in the economic price of kindergartens where the Ombudsman reacted and said that we believe that the financial difficulties of kindergartens and delayed the settlement of funds by the Ministry of Science and Education should not be a reason to print children from kindergarten. I must stress that it was simply inadmissible for someone else's failure to suffer children because these children were not responsible for the failure of persons from the ministry who did not provide funds in time, and in the end only Roma children felt the consequences. I truly believe that such discrimination will not be repeated for sure. Again, I point out that... Roma settlements of prejudice towards the Roma community, high poverty rates, and inappropriate life, conditions have a negative impact on the inclusion of Roma children in the system of education and education, as well as on community life in general. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, early childhood development services are simply not available in Roma settlements. Roma children continue to stand out in separate classes because of their lack of knowledge of Croatian. In order to avoid this, two years of preschool programmes should be implemented, Roma assistants involved, and a programme should be implemented in cooperation with parents. This is also included in the document of the operational programme for the Roma national minority from 2020 to 2024, and I believe that this government will also implement the announcement because so far the institutions have not taken note of the Ombudsman's recommendations on this matter. About HRT and it is recommended to invest in programmes for children and young people, especially for children's content in Roma. Since Roma children rarely encounter such content in their native language, I will take this opportunity to say that I believe that HRT tax should also be free of charge for pensioners and persons receiving social assistance. The difficulties were also significant in the Turopolje Breeding Institute where more than a third of the Roma nationality educators who are exposed there to constant violence and insult the foundations of nationality. I would appeal once again to everything, and when I say everything, I don't just think about institutions, but the media, and those citizens, to be more tolerant and open to diversity. I was recently shocked by an e-mail I received from a parent whose 8-year-old son imitated a Nazi greeting taught in karate club training. The parent writes that the coach told his son that it was their secret and such violence of every kind against the children has yet to exist. Some time ago, I held a meeting together with several committees, lawyers, and the City of Zagreb, a conference on topics, on "violence against children in sports institutions". There was a talk about the shocking sexual abuse of a girl from 11 to 16 years old. by their coach. A tragic event a few days ago in the square where we are now, but also a series of events before that shows how devastating the impact of society and family on the minds of a young person can be. If we are already grown up on opposite sides, in the political arena we do not allow them to be shared among children. They need to be taught that there is no difference between human rights and obligations, that the color of the skin or the church to which they go must be no reason to deny someone their rights or freedom, how to solve conflicts in a civilized way, and how the hand provided helps others does not mean weakness but strength. It's the only way we can avoid young people walking around armed and shooting at others. A great responsibility lies in the institutions, or on ourselves, so if we cannot go elsewhere, let us change for the beginning of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9309	Thank you. Now the House Movement Representatives' Club will present Mrs. Caroline Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9310	Thank you very much. One more good day to everyone. In the Law on Advocates for Children in Art. The 11.2. stands amongst others this. The Ombudsman shall be authorised by the competent authorities of the State Administration to propose measures to prevent harmful actions that endanger the rights and interests of children and to require reports of the measures taken. Why am I stressing it like this? In recent weeks, we have received several complaints at the address of the club which at individual parliamentary representatives, at the address of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, in the last 2 weeks 5 of them, at the work of the Child Protection Policy. This report also discusses sexual abuse of children. We've heard what the law says, what it's authorized to do and what it's responsible for, and so it's up to the attorney for the children to do. It is thought that if we saved one child, we saved the whole world, I will not tell you about 5 or 10 cases, I will commit to one case where the mother has on several occasions spoken to, among other things, the Ombudsman for children, and she has received an answer that we can consider, on the basis of previous insights into these cases, a type of response in which the lawyer answers “The child lawyer cannot intervene in a specific case.” In doing so, I may point out once again, and I will not appeal to the law but rather to the text on the page of the Ombudsman for children, where he writes, if he finds out that the child has been expelled by physical or mental violence, sexual abuse, abuse or exploitation, neglect or dissuasion, he must immediately submit his application to the competent DORH and warn the competent centre, etc. In the case I'm talking about, it's about two girls who have been exposed to mental and physical abuse, and one of them has, on several occasions, witnessed sexual abuse by their father in competent institutions. After the D.A. reached out with a type of response, the Office of the President of the State also wrote to the D.A. and nothing happened again. I'll remind you that with regard to cases like this, we had a situation where when I mentioned the Child Protection Policy, I'm not going to go into it with a presumption of innocence or guilt, God forbid, but I'm getting into it, if there's a reasonable doubt, it should be investigated and on the basis of facts rejected, if God does, and if there's a guilt it has to be corrected, there's no way of going beyond anything that could lead to harming children. That's when I lost the quorum on the board. - Mrs. Crescent. Mrs. Boric, a colleague of mine. Mrs. Murganić, a colleague of mine. counterpart Bedekovic said they can't imagine that Gordana Buljan Flander would do something wrong. I warned you, we're not talking about anyone in his absence, and we're not accusing anyone, we're asking that it be forwarded only to the competent institutions. Nothing more. There was no quorum. I am now warning again about this case because children are still in potential danger of being given to their father and it is not about a divorce case, which is suspected, that he is, in addition to being an abuser, a potential and sexual abuser. So, I appeal to do reconnaissances because, based on the opinion of the polyclinic, there has been a suspension of the investigation against a potential abuser. That's alarming. If nothing, let the investigative actions be conducted to clear the institution that is extremely important. I also asked if it was non-processing, that is, whether there was a lack of counseling for the reason why the principal's daughter, the principal's daughter, when I speak to the principal, is the director of the Gordan Poliklinica Buljan Flander, which is her daughter's employee at the Attorney's Office. Is that why it wasn't forwarded? I asked a question. I'm in good faith that's not a reason, but it's not a good thing it wasn't passed on to the competent institutions and I appeal to be treated in the child's interest. Which means when one of the experts says it exists, it's due to parental manipulation. So how can there be anyone's testimony above the testimony of the child? A child’s testimony cannot be ignored on the basis of one opinion. And that's what happened here. The kids were giving statements at 2:00 to 3:00 a.m. Even in Klaic. And they always said very dramatic things. However, the opinion of a polyclinic led to the suspension of the case against the father. That's very alarming. You need to work for the child's protection. The institutions are there to protect every citizen in Croatia, especially the weakest among us. That non-treatment is one of the reasons why our club won't accept this report, but there are other points. We've heard in previous discussions some of them, so I'm not going to repeat them in this moment by telling them what I think I'm going to do, but I'm going to remind them of two things. The Ombudsman's office has a budget of 5,637 410 kuna and 22 employees. Someone's gonna say it's a lot, someone's gonna say it's a little bit. And I want to stress here that the money paid by Croatian taxpayers must be spent on the purpose for which he is paid. So any institution that is governed by law and by the Constitution and works to protect those who pay for it is an institution that will gain the trust of all of us and who will not be sorry to single out I don't know how much money, how much money it takes. But if that's not the case, then every lip is too high, then every lip is wasted and wasted. It is important to stay away from our particular interests, it is important to stay away from our party interests, it is important to stay away from disputes that are more professional than other experts, it is important to stand aside from children in the context of this topic. We are invited here to represent the people who have chosen us, and our moral obligation is regardless of the consequences we may bear to protect the weakest in our society. I have a number one child priority list. In the case I'm talking about, it's a 5-year-old and 7-year-old kid. You know, in one case, bad practice can be broken if it exists, if it doesn't exist, we'll clear one institution, but the facts have to be determined. That's where we'll all agree. I'd like to finish the presentation here and repeat that the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will not vote for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9311	Thank you. We've got three replicas, me, three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Perhaps some of you have not been present before, because I have said if the injuries of the Rules of Procedure will be replicas will be a warning. I've been listening very carefully all morning I've got a phone to hear every word of everyone because that's the kind of time they are now. I haven't heard anything that would be an insult to anything, but I will give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but to know that it's my duty to follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, the first one is Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9312	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 238 has been violated by the MP, there are records from a meeting of the committee which she always and abuses the role of president, imposes topics beyond both the powers and the expertise of us as committees imposing individual cases in which she obviously has opinions and opinions, which she is not authorized to do. So I didn't say at that meeting that I couldn't believe What's the clinic doing, read the minutes [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] And don't falsely accuse me. [[Intruder: Mrs. Murganic, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9313	Article 238 does not deal with the truth, but I once said that the truth deals with philosophy, and it is not possible to deal with the Rules of Procedure, that each of us, each of us, has his own truth, can possibly insult another, however, there is no regret here. That's why, not getting into the contents of Mrs. Murganic, I have to give you a warning. The second is, the second is Mr. Cellic if he wants to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9314	Dear Mr Vice President, Article 238 has been injured by a co-worker repeatedly demeaning people she does not have here, linking relatives and thus degrades the election and institution of the Ombudsman for children and directors. Intentional instrumentalisation of highly conflicted divorce cases, which have no concepts, are embarrassing in this high house, and I pray that when it connects, let it tell the public who called whom when it was hers husband employed as assistant chaplain [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in the military office. [[Intruder: Time, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9315	Mr. Cell, time. Again, I must say what you have said would be the closest thing to that part of Article 238 that speaks disdain, insult of the president or other MPs. I didn't see that she insulted neither the president, nor the other representatives of the ladies, and that's why I can't, I can't respect that and respect and sympathy for you, and whatever you want, I have to give you a warning. Let's move on, Mrs. Voter, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9316	Mr. Vice President, I take the risk of you giving me a warning, but I must warn that I believe that Article 87 has been injured, which is very detailed in the responsibility of the working body, which is the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Why am I saying that? Because precisely the name of the club Mrs. Vidović Kristo gives up the right of the majority in the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports to determine the ways in which it will work, says that by destroying the quorum, because the Committee was considered not to be dealing with individual issues, and in particular by not taking sides in certain proceedings it has actually accused both committee and committee members And a colleague of Attorney General and Mrs Buljan Flander [[Intruder: Time.]] to do something organized to harm children. [[Intruder: Time, time, time.]] It's in everyone's best interest to have a child, but we can't abuse our functions to take sides and try to lean on water. or make one mill. [[Intruder: You'll get a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9317	Mrs. Future.../incomprehensible/..., let's not so you'll have to sit most likely in my place and this one behave like me and make warnings like I have to give you now. Yeah, 'cause that's not in Article 87. Shall I read it? And you're time, and you're 30 seconds out. In the section of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport are the tasks of identifying and monitoring policy implementation, and in the process of passing laws and other regulations, the Committee has the rights and duties of the parent body in areas relating to marriage, family and custody, in particular the protection of children and motherhood and youth, the quality of life of young people and their participation in the activities of society, the protection of children and young people from all forms of addiction, family planning and demographic renewal, and conducts the process of running for children's defenders and submits an assembly of proposals for selection and sport. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European The Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the HS behind subparagraph 4. I shall add a new subparagraph 5, and the present representative 5 shall become subparagraph 6. So what you said unfortunately doesn't stand. Well, in my opinion, that's not a word of course, because it can't be a word, but this lady. Kristo spoke to her club, and that's why you'll have to get a warning after membership in 238. Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Natalija Martincevic, club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9318	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman has prepared a comprehensive report with her associates that really gets us to know each other deeply, familiarizes with all the problems and challenges that our children face. And according to everything in this report, the situation is not encouraging at all. In fact, at the very beginning of the report, we are familiar with the fact that it is during 2019. almost 10% more of the new applications, complaints, enquiries and requests received than in the previous year. These are the data for 2019, and we can only assume what figures will be in 2020, the year in which we have had a months-long strike of educators, then the crown, then the earthquake in Zagreb. All failures and failures in the system are particularly evident in crisis situations and this year will show that we have not established a good enough system to protect our children, as seen from reports in almost all aspects, from social and economic rights, health rights, education rights, and to protect children from discrimination, protection from sexual exploitation and abuse, protection of children in the digital environment, etc. What is particularly worrying in this case, this report clearly defines the problem of ineffectiveness of institutions. In particular, it is pointed out that the problem of the judiciary that we are constantly stressing is absolutely the biggest problem of our society, it is necessary to increase efficiency and, above all, the urgency in the procedures in which children's rights are being decided, and it is particularly important to provide the child, who participates in any of the proceedings, whether in criminal, criminal, administrative or civil proceedings, with equal conditions to be available professional assistance and support. In particular, there is also an emphasis on the lack of or insufficient co-operation between the judicial and social institutions, as well as on health and education. It is precisely this lack of cooperation that results from the continuing violation of children's rights, which is very clear in the report. Of course it's 10 minutes too little to talk about all the problems, so I'm going to look back at one in a whole series of problems, and that's the issue of foster care. In the report itself, the problem is highlighted. In fact, the number of children in institutions is steadily increasing, and the number of requests to place children in institutions is growing steadily. One of the solutions between institutionalization as the most unfavourable solution for children and adoption as we know to be very difficult, very slow and extremely ineffective, therefore there is fostering. A form that has a whole series of assumptions that is a quality solution because of inadequate, and often extremely illogical legal solutions, unfortunately, at this point produces a whole series of problems, primarily children, foster parents, but ultimately the whole system. I'll look back at this discussion for two problems. The first status is the parent's parent's and foster parent's. Believe it or not, they don't exercise the same material rights. In one case and another, it is about people who care about sick children or children with developmental difficulties, but in our system they do not exercise equal rights. Namely, the Regulation amending the Law on Social Welfare has increased the compensation of parents to carers, which we absolutely support and consider necessary, but at the same time it has not been done for foster parents. Provisions of Art. 57. The social care law of foster children is discriminated against, damaged by their rights, and damaged by foster parents who do not receive adequate support. There are a whole series of problems such as the fact that supplies from 2000 to 2640 kuna have not changed since 2007, that the amount of allowance for children who have also not changed since 2007, so it has not changed and amounts to 100 kuna. Imagine today high school kids, they don't have as you know in the system of organized nutrition, which he can with 100 kunas a month. The ministry has abolished and secured vacations for foster children and not to list any further. It is also evident that our foster parents are currently caring for many sick children who, in their own, are exempt from inadequate conditions, would be granted some of the rights related to the degree of damage, e.g. an allowance for assistance and care, personal disability, nursing status and the like. By accommodation in foster care, the child cannot achieve any of those measures or help, which is absolute discrimination and children, as well as the foster parent. It is precisely such solutions that have resulted in the fact that a very small number of foster parents reported accepting professional status, and the number of those interested in foster care, which reintroduces children to the worst solutions, which are institutions. So, a law that was expected to fail completely. With this kind of policy and this kind of thinking, the number of foster parents will continue to decrease, and let's face it, it brings negative consequences for children, but also the system of care as a whole. Furthermore, a major problem for now without any indication of a solution to the status of these children, after they turn 18. I can't be at the foster home anymore. Those 18-year-old kids, they're still kids. According to existing legal decisions, these children should be 18 years old. When they come out of foster homes to secure their own apartment, pay the directorship, of course, immediately find a job if they happen to decide to study, you should pay for it yourself. Imagine everyone who has children, when they were 18, whether our children were able to arrange something like that for themselves. As a result, children are most often forced to return to parental families, families from which they are excluded, from which they were separated because they could not be cared for or not have had conditions, mostly because of alcoholism, violence, life on inadequate housing and material opportunities. Those kids just don't stand a chance. There are a whole series of associations, for example, one in the county is, the Varazdin County is the Zipka association which by its own work, effort, enthusiasm, try to secure and create these children a better life and as a county, for example. we have helped build a housing community in the financial demarcation of these children, however, these are not solutions. Decisions should be given by the State. Associations should be engaged, the local community should be engaged, but, as I said, quite clearly, therefore, solutions should be given by the state, a clear system should be established for foster parents, children foster children and, therefore, children who literally end up on the street at 18 years of age. We are in a situation today that the status, quality of life, education and health of children in foster families, the possibility of fostering and the rights of children coming out of.../incomprehensible/... fostering, depending on the engagement of humanitarian associations, local communities, donors, people of goodwill, which in the serious state and serious system cannot and must not be solutions. Now, since the prosecutor was extremely creative in avoiding concrete answers to very specific questions, so I asked a very clear question in the replica. So it was seen that the law had not come into life, that the law had not fulfilled what was imagined, which was an idea. What they will do, whether they will initiate amendments to the law, whether they will make any recommendations, I have not heard a concrete answer, so I ask that now in the next presentation, they clearly tell us what they will do about the Household Law and the foster parent's problems. And also, once again, I would refer to the prosecutor's statement that she is not exactly going to name institutions that do not listen to her recommendations, so she would just once again point out that it is the lawyer's job to clearly state what those institutions are who do not listen to the recommendations, which means that these institutions are not doing their job. We need to know what institutions they are, they need to know what institutions they are, they have to be made clear because otherwise there will be no clear effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9319	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. ... And my mistake, my mistake, my mistake, and my sin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Positions. Let's move on. Let's move on. Mrs. Petir, individual debate. And wait, just a moment until it's wiped out here. Dear MPs and MPs, we will discuss two more points of technical nature, choice, appointment, resolution and the Mandate-Immunity Commission report today. Thank you very much. Mrs. Petyr, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Advocate General, State Secretary, Representatives and Representatives. The real children don't have a period of time, they're universal and time-consuming and whatever troubles and emergency situations happen to us, and it seems that in these times we live now, we always have to make sure that we protect the interests of children first. In this report, there are many examples from which we see that there is room for improvement when we talk about children's rights, each child needs a home and a family, suitable conditions for decent life and education, but this report, and the situations we face as representatives, are indications that this is not the case. The Ombudsman states in the report that greater efforts need to be made to reduce the negative effects of child poverty and points out that almost every fifth child is at risk of poverty. These children often lack basic needs, and education and social inclusion are difficult. According to the Zagreb Economic Institute, almost all poor parents can afford a warm meal every day, and 90% of them have three meals a day, but a third of parents cannot afford fruit or vegetables to children every day. I am proud that, as a Croatian representative in the European Parliament, I have voted at the European level of subsidies for Croatia, for healthy meals in our primary schools that need to be supplied from local OPG, it is fruit, vegetables and milk, but I am aware that there is a need to make additional efforts to ensure that all children in all schools have healthy meals every day, not just occasionally during the week. Almost all poor children in Croatia, fortunately, have the possibility of medical care, but according to this Study, every third child in question has no own bed, about 20% of parents can't buy a coat or jacket, more than half of children have no computer and the Internet. Particular attention should be paid to rural isolated areas in which basic municipal, social and social infrastructure is missing, which brings these children further into a more unfavourable position than those of children living in urban areas, so I would suggest that they pay particular attention to this and that the following report also provides information that will be specifically set aside for rural areas when we talk about children's rights, such as those of children living on islands. Every child needs a family, but we are aware that unfortunately every child in Croatia has neither family nor home. The report noted that there were 75 children in foster homes without adequate parental care and only 25 adoptions were implemented during 2019. According to data available publicly, a total of 450 children have all the conditions for adoption. At the same time, there are 1400 adoptors waiting for adoption, with 851 on the list for adoption for almost 3 years, so on the waiting list. These are numbers, but behind each figure is one child, a small human being waiting for his family and home, so it is important to remove obstacles that are in the way of achieving love, happiness for each child. However, when making decisions on adoption or fostering, we should be deprived of any ideologies, pressures, or personal preferences and be guided always and constantly by what is the best interests of the child. It is also very important for children to exercise their right to free expression and to support them in this because it is not only a democratic achievement but also our obligation under the laws and international conventions and declarations. For example, the General Declaration on Human Rights in Art. 18th and European Convention on Human Rights, Art. The 9th is clearly stated that everyone has the right to protect freedom of expression, thought and religion, so no one should question those rights. However, when it comes to electoral items and proposals for the first and last hours to be held, I must say that this is mathematically unsustainable and inexplicable, therefore I consider such proposals to be populist and focused as one subject, and not against all election cases and such proposals as a real desire for better education and child-delivery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9322	We have three replicas. The first one's a colleague of Shimičević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9323	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you've talked about family, and whenever it comes to family, then we think about family that will have all the conditions for raising children, and we know that, apart from family, it's school that has a lot to do with the development of children. But aren't we hypocrites on the one hand, when we advocate profits or work on Sundays, to leave our children alone and then actually children don't grow up with grandparents anymore, but they grow up with Internet, social networks that can't actually give us the necessary facilities for leisure as a family can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9325	Quite right when you talk about the need to reconcile private and family life with business because we see that in certain occupations there are really great deviations and that women who work at the store work for 3 weeks without interruptions for minimum wage without any day off and when a day off is usually not the day when their family is at home, which means that they are not allowed to spend quality time with their children and with all those with whom they want to share happy moments. For this reason, I personally advocate the regulation of the law of the week off and the dignity of working time for all employees, especially those in trade, because I think it is, apart from the fulfillment of justice and civilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9326	Second replica, fellow Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9327	Thank you, Mr. President. You have opened one topic that is sometimes neglected, which is the subject of child poverty. This poverty of children can be seen in the context of the Covid epidemic where a certain number of children of school age was not allowed to participate online because the fact that child poverty in some way limits social inclusion, if we want social mobility. That is why I think that this subject should also be discussed in the report of the Ombudsman because this is a very important topic and we should do everything possible to ensure that children do not suffer, or suffer as little as possible because of poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9329	Thank you. You are absolutely right, this topic is also mentioned in the Report, I have deepened it a little because it seems to me that it deserves more attention because the data published after this research of the Zagreb Economic Institute and the analysis given by the experts really need to be concerned and imagined. And what I have seen in particular is, on the one hand, our desire to achieve digitization, which is very good, on the other hand, we do not have adequate conditions for that, especially in the country. So we're not just talking about the lack of a computer that is needed to have a child online involved in school or extracurricular activities, we're talking about that half of the children in the Republic have no Internet or computer access at all. This means that if we want young families to stay in the country or migrate from the city to the country, and that they work from there and that these children have an adequate standard, we must first of all provide them with a fast internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9330	Thank you. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9331	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague, I just wanted to say, perhaps in part of your adoption debate, you might point out some data, the lawyer referred to the number of adopted children who are very well placed in institutions. However, in 2019, we have 117 children who were adopted in 2020, while the ministry was giving data to 90, but of a total of 196 children who had achieved the conditions for adoption. In fact, it is necessary to distinguish between children who have no parental care, but are neither adopted nor adopted by relatives. In adoption, the problem is that everyone wants small children and the disproportionateness is between the number of children who are prepared for adoption and the number of interested potential adoptors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9332	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9333	Thank you very much. Yes, I really think that this is a topic that deserves a lot of our attention and perhaps a common search for a solution because every child needs a home and family and we need to be guided by the protection of the best interests of children and I believe that within the framework of the institutions, the maximum of what is possible is provided. But the fact is that father and mother and family who symbolize it are extremely important for the psychophysical development of the child. In this sense, it seems important to point out once again that the adoption and fostering processes themselves go too slowly and that we must remove obstacles that are on the road to ensure that children have the love, home, and security they deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9334	I'd like to thank counsel Petyr. We move on to the 2nd individual debate, respected colleague Nada Murganic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of your colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9335	Your Honor, I have to react, so the Rules of Procedure have been injured, so... 23. ... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9336	Just turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9337	So the Honorable President was injured by an officer. 23, this is part of the third chapter of the HS Rules of Procedure, where general rights and responsibilities of MPs are discussed. I asked the MIP to remove my immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9338	Your time is up, I'm sorry, I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9339	Here, I'll introduce you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9340	No, your time is up, you don't have that much, you should have been faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9341	So let me, I can't, so I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9342	I can't let you, call back later, now I can't, it's over, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9343	Well, I'm calling again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9344	Yeah, call me back when there's a debate, then you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9345	No, he can't. I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9346	Here you go, fellow Murganic. You won't be the one to decide. I'm the president of the assembly and I'm the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9347	No, I'll determine because you wouldn't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9348	You got 30 seconds and you didn't explain what you wanted, that's your problem. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9349	It's my right. I have a right to remove my immunity. You can't determine that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9350	What does that have to do with anything? What are you guys talking about? Just a little coworker. What difference does it make to remove immunity?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9351	It has to do with the MIP that's now being held without my knowledge where my request has been denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9352	Wait for my colleague, Mr. Grmoy, we have a plenary session here and you're raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the plenary session...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9353	No, it's for, for, for, for events in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9354	...and not for what's going on, it, it can, it, it's not part of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, of what's happening in HS. You can make a press release for the press, we've secured a hall down there where you can talk about it. It's not an injury. You can do whatever you want, but you will do whatever you do in accordance with the rules that apply here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9355	I work in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9356	Here you go. Don't work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9357	Thank you very much. Here I would like to explain in my individual discussion some of the topics that have been related and in previous discussions and to open up perhaps some more questions about this report. In fact, there have been previous discussions of some possible inaccuracies or different discrepancies in concrete measures and fees stemming from the social care system, and I would like to point out in particular that it is not only the social care system that, by means of its policies and measures, can fully protect all rights and interests of the child, their measures and fees are directed at those that fall under the law, let's say, umbrella. In fact, it was about foster care, which is a very important and significant measure. The law adopted aimed at stimulating fostering foster care by significantly increasing fees for potential special foster parents and professional foster parents, but it should also distinguish traditional foster care that has a different fee, which is provided for children or adults who do not have such demanding, demanding care or care, and that is not to be allowed to do so because the debate concluded one earlier that this is a mustache with parent status. The status of the parent is achieved by a parent for a child who has extremely difficult, complex and specific health and other difficulties and is responsible for the status of carers, parents, 4000 kunas. The status of carers is foreseen for elderly people, is extended to spouses, spouses and extramarital partners, and it is 2500 kuna. The status of foster parents also has in some way a compensation in which these other rights are also similar to working relationships, health and pension insurance and anything similar. When we talk about fees, I'd like to remember here, to realize the fact that there's another compensation from the welfare system, it's guaranteed a minimum fee so-called. Social aid and this is now my thing to say in the fact that we have children living in our families, in households where social aid is, minimum cash compensation is the only source of income and that they live together with their residents in, not only at risk of poverty, but in deep poverty. A minimum fee is guaranteed, can be made according to the strictest rules, so it is about persons who really cannot or do not have other means of life or have no property to live on. When very often children who are raised in such families are transgenerational and they carry on such conditions and lifestyles since they already begin to have very little chance of, to get out of this, from these problems and there the whole social community needs to take a look at them and allow them not to be social benefits users but to allow them to school and anything further. Why am I stressing this? Very often in our society because of some particular abuses through media space, something that can be concluded that, under quotes, I'm going to say, under quotes, live well on social compensation. So social compensation and obtaining social benefits creates actually the unemployed and it is dimming to be involved in the world of work. I think that children living in such conditions are then, I can't say how, how stigmatized and how very, very aware they are of the situation in which they live, carry the Stigm of their poor families, and in the peer environments we all know that not only those who are deeply poor but also those who have a modest income for their families are going through. We're in favour, we need to make sure that they get out of living like this as soon as possible, but while they don't need this to be out of the way and let's not be saving on those fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9358	You have one replica of your colleague Murganic, a colleague of Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9359	Dear colleague Murganić, in your debate, you have more than well touched one of the biggest problems in the society of children, which is poverty. Social benefits can't be the only answer to that. What's really a question is what the state can do for people who find themselves in such a situation to come back even to say in a normal relationship. Most of them actually come into this relationship because of the various problems they have faced once, and then these difficulties drag them through life. And there's something that the state should actually do, or state, I'm not going to say take some of the responsibility, but find a way to help those who get into trouble to get out of it. Now we're in a position to practically these days... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9360	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9361	Thank you. A fellow representative certainly can and must the state and I have mentioned regulations that go from the state level, but what I like to emphasize a lot can and must the local community. Where we wanted to intervene not only through material donations and financial fees, but we wanted to intervene through the provision of services in the community, to help children learn, to help them in, to have young mothers, and there are many poor who have not acquired neither the basic skills of proper education and the care of their children, we found ourselves in prison in certain local environments, there is no room, so there are no people, so there are many things, but let's not always expect to go from a state level only to give money, to change regulations, but there must be good will for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9362	Thank you. We're going to the third debate of the esteemed colleague of Martin Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9363	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Advocates, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues in this debate will address poverty as a major problem of society as well as children who are rarely the first to be unprotected. I'll also look back at the adoption of children. I will note that the "I need to tell you something" initiative may already be a little forgotten, but it is commendable. In 2019 120 individual reports of infringements of children's rights on social and economic rights were received. Of which 46 social and 74 economic violations of children's rights. In 2018 there were 113 and 45 social and 68 economic violations of children's rights. Unfortunately, we see growth compared to the previous year. There's always a violation of the right to an allowance for children. Social rights are also in the direction of harming children with impaired health, so here's a suggestion. Last week in this house, we discussed the Ombudsman's report with people with disabilities, and during the conversation with the citizens, I noticed that 100% of Croatian wartime wartime people in 1 category every 7 years get a new car, and the old ones don't have to return. Why not forward these old cars to the care parents, for example. Not contesting the rights of our defenders, nor picking on their privileges simply if they got a new car, they wouldn't help someone further if we knew the fact that the parent parents are mostly in difficult financial situations. This is a question I also referred to yesterday and in writing to the Croatian Defence Minister. Tommy Bear. Furthermore, I would like to point out that it concerns the fact that in 2018, the pain of three children and one more easily injured in illegal labour or child employment. In 2019, there was an even more tragic picture because four children were injured at work, and one was killed. A devastating fact for our society. But as long as our society is as it is, nothing will change, the children will not be protected. As far as adoption is concerned are also devastating figures. In 2017, only 18 were adopted, and 60 had conditions for adoption. In 2018, as many as four more than 22 were adopted and 74 had conditions for adoption. In 2019, only 25 children were adopted, and 75 had conditions for adoption. The apparent growth but still a shameful number. Even more embarrassing is the fact that many more children are waiting around homes because there are no conditions for adoption because of catastrophic red tape. Here I return to the initiative "I must tell you something", a commendable initiative that should be constantly encouraged because every child has and must have the right to a family and a happy childhood. We're here to secure it for them. Children are our greatest wealth, our future, our happiness. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues, it's up to us all whether or not we're going to provide them with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9364	Replica, colleague Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9365	Thank you, Mr. President. So thank you fellow MPs for this beautiful review I would only hope to add to the violation of children's rights from a school textbook I read and write 1, a Croatian reader. Family and children's rights. We want to know what children's rights are, and Mom said it hurts her head, let's not bother her, and don't ask her anything, and I don't ask you a lot of questions, children's rights are just your imagination. About my rights, I asked my dad, he listened to me, he didn't tie his tie, and then he ran off to a meeting as urgent as if I didn't matter to him at all. I finally got the answer at school, I have the right to play and to love me." This is devastating that our children have in first grade primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9366	Well, it's actually very devastating, but I think there are people here besides me and the Ministry who need to react very well to such things if this is happening in our textbooks. My colleague Nikolic and I are both mothers and we know we will do our best to protect our children, but I think we should work on those who are not so lucky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9367	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9368	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Annual Report of the Ombudsman for Children, but it is much more than one annual report of an institution in this case that is also a kind of catalogue of our mistakes, our failures, our carelessnesss, our neglects, our inactions. It is a very faithful reflection, a faithful reflection of all of us, all of our institutions, society as a whole. And that is why solving all of these problems and there can be no task of one person, one defender and one office or one institution, it is the task of all of us, it is the task especially of us who have the responsibility in our public appearances and by our public actions to protect those most vulnerable, to support them, to encourage them, to ultimately encourage ourselves in action in this direction. There is, however, an area of one whole chapter in which it is clear that there is an institution that is first on the move to do something about solving all problems. A whole chapter dedicated to the educational rights of our children and to the violation of those rights. Here are some, this is a lack of room for enrollment in preschool education programmes, difficulties in enrolling children with health disabilities in preschool education programmes, lack of capacity for extended school stay, lack of hot meals in schools, lack of or inaccessibility of secondary education in minor areas due to lack of education, even the abolition of local local public transport, lack of assistants and generally professional co-workers in continuing for children with developmental disabilities, there is also a lack of psychologists in school staff, it is also the imposition of religious content in schools outside the teaching of religious sciences. Their children in the Republic of Croatia are also not provided with systematic civil education and education and human rights education. It is also a violation of the education rights of children of members of national minorities. All of these are just some of the violations of our children's educational rights, and we can't mention it, we can't bear the fact that what's going on in this year due to the lack of material conditions for many of our children to attend teaching remotely during this pandemic. It's a whole chapter in the attorney general's report, chapter 25. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report with the report. In that opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not said a word to us, there is no letter, literally no letter of violation of our children's educational rights. For many of these violations, it is a direct responsibility at the Government, especially at the Ministry of Science and Education. The Ministry of Science and Education is responsible for many of these violations, moreover, the Ministry of Science and Education was first called on to prevent such violations of education rights. Madam Attorney-General, we support your work, we support your report, but that is not enough, it is necessary to support it and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to begin to give its opinion. But that's not enough, it takes action, it needs action, it needs some energy, some effort, some will to do something about it. And from this place I call on the Government and especially the Ministry of Science and Education to follow this report and try to prevent or at least significantly reduce the violations of our children's educational rights so that next year we can accept such a similar report at least in that section see some progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9369	Thank you. You have three replicas, the first one's a colleague of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9370	An esteemed colleague. In your presentation, you focused mainly on the problems of children’s rights in the education system, and you did not treat one important attitude regarding gifted children. Namely, the Law on the Breeding and Education of its Art. 62nd, says students with special educational needs are also gifted students, students with difficulties. Art. In 63rd, however, it requires all schools to see, monitor and encourage gifted students, but unlike most EU countries, all of our stories that exist in theory and in practice are lagging behind, so I'm curious about that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9371	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9372	Thank you very much for your question, I absolutely agree with you, I, by the nature of my work, have opportunities and I personally and my colleagues and our students and fellow professors, our former students have opportunities to work with children who are gifted, whose needs are also special, we have an unusually great sensitivity to this matter. However, I have stressed that I will specify as I am, just some of the violations of education rights. Of course, it is, that list or that right that I have stated doesn't nearly exhaust the entire list and of course I agree with you that we must keep that in mind as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9373	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague. I agree that the system of education and education is such that it must be invested in it because only those who know, you have power, whether, who knows, it has power and can do wonders. However, I disagree, you said two things, the first citizen's education. Civil education is conducted interdisciplinaryly in schools, meaning through class community class, Croatian education, visual education, musical culture, so that these values can certainly be processed and that children can adopt these contents that are necessary and other things, when we talk about the number of employees or the number of students. Today in Croatian schools, we have the smallest number of students and the most employees. So 10 years ago, there were 30, 35 students in classrooms, and today we have 22. It's above EU standards And as far as we're concerned, we can achieve excellent results. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9375	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9376	Thank you very much. As far as civic education is concerned, so our position, my personal and position of colleagues from the green-left block, is quite clear, we are very clearly and resolutely in favour of civic education as a separate subject. However, even these present circumstances, when it is not realised, are cited on the page. 67 In the report of the Ombudsman for children, it says that its children in the Republic of Croatia and in this system and in this constitution are not provided with systematic civil education and education. As for the relationship between the number of students and the number of teachers or employees in schools, that fact is, of course, too sad for itself and we all know what really causes it, but one more thing here needs to be pointed out. That relationship actually hides a lot. Today we may have a relationship between teachers and teachers and students who are approximately adequate, but we certainly have an inadequate relationship between teachers and.../incomprehensible/... teachers, absolute number of teachers in particular deficit disciplines [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9377	Comrade Bedekovic, come in. Comrade Bedekovic, did you report for... No, I don't. Then I got the wrong information. Has anyone else come forward? Well, then you got me wrong. Nothing. So let's move on, you're free to go. Thank you very much. Now it's time for my colleague Habiban, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9378	The esteemed head of the HS, respected lawyers with co-workers, ministry representatives, co-workers and fellow parliamentary deputies. In my debate, I would refer to a few and exactly 2.2 parts of the Attorney General's report for the past year. First of all, I would like to touch on the subject of the economic exploitation of children and the carrying out of harmful jobs, i.e. on the issue of the protection of children who are begging. It is a phenomenon that is not a newer date, which is constantly present in our society, making it a false impression in the public that it is a way of life for certain socially endangered groups and thus taking over almost the usual occurrences in our cities. Often waiting at the intersection of the green light, we see a child approaching private cars, knocking on windows and begging. No one on that scene can certainly remain indifferent. Most often, it is the most difficult form of child exploitation that is organised and which, as stated by the Ombudsman in its Report, poses a lucrative business and risks trafficking. Unfortunately, in the cases described, children are characterised as offenders, and they are treated when they reach the age of liability. However, I believe that the problem is much deeper and that the qualification of children as an offender in these cases does not solve the problem. In particular, it is necessary to protect children from exploitation, i.e. each individual case, from providing parental care, the conditions in which the child lives, the organised begging of adults, and ultimately to protect the child from abuse by the persons who have followed him, and to refer to the street to beg and to cause compassion to provide a certain amount of money to the adult who has just sent him there. I therefore support the lawyer's position, which she points out in her report, that greater cooperation is needed from all the resolutions responsible for addressing this problem and the adoption of comprehensive measures to protect children at risk of being used for begging. The second topic that I would like to address here is the issue of protecting children in the digital world. In fact, the rapid development of technology that has many positive sides also results in negative phenomena that pose new challenges and risks to which children are exposed. First of all, here I think of the problem of an increasing number of Internet addicts, as well as computer games. Today, there are fewer children in the game at sports playgrounds, in front of schools, in nature, since the place of children's play has moved into a virtual world within 4 walls without direct interaction with peers and without movement in the open space. The lawyer rightly points to the health risks of overuse of the Internet, such as deformation of the spine, obesity and visual impairment. Also, parents and teachers with whom children spend most of their time are hardly able to identify these symptoms in time that suggest the development of addiction, and which are also evident in depression, weaker social contact with children and anxiety. Also, the fact is that the existing pandemic of Coronavirus or Covid-19 made children even more dependent on the Internet and on computers since a good part of the school year was held online and at this point given this epidemiological situation, the school departments that are holding school classes are also carried out online. In this sense, children should be kept in mind and parental care because we often testify that, for example, at lunch and dinner at a restaurant, parents maintain “peace” at the table in a way that gives children mobile and tablet-sharing and thus further, of course unconsciously, promotes child dependence towards the Internet and computer games. Also, a child’s need for physical activity is, in fact, the right in some ways to each child. During primary school, children have only two classes in physical and health care. On the other hand, kindergartens have no obligation to conduct a physical and health culture, and at the same time, children’s habits are created, including sports. Of course, there is always the possibility that a child attends extra-school sports activities, but other than being paid, they are most often selective and competitive. The current pandemic situation further restricted the child’s right to move since at that time lockdown was first closed to the school playgrounds and areas where children were recreationally engaged in sports. I repeat, the development of technology and opportunities that they offer today, has enabled a positive quantitative leap, but we must be aware that it is the same with children in particular, bearing certain negative consequences that can be prevented by timely education and promoting a healthy lifestyle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9379	Thank you. Comrade Habian, you have one replica, colleague Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9380	Thank you, President of the Parliament. So I'd just lean on yours, it's mentioned in the debate online violence. I would only hope that despite the fact that in schools, in public spaces, regular educations and workshops are held for parents and those on the Internet, it seems to me that parents rarely respond and very difficult to include such lectures, as if they don't want to hear because if they don't hear it, then I guess it doesn't happen and actually happens. We must be honest and admit that the Internet has become children and young people today everything and in this digital jungle full of predators, children wandering, exploring and now we see the results. In the fight against sexual abuse and exploitation of children through new technologies, we need to move more decisively and more should be involved in telecommunications and government and non-governmental sectors. It is necessary for me to introduce specialised prosecutors and judges for cases like this, to work on prevention with preschool children, to punish the perpetrators more sharply and to send a clear message to the public to take care of children and protect children online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9381	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9382	Thank you very much. Here, my colleague, you've actually referred to that second segment when you're talking about Internet addiction and computer games, I'm more about this part of the activity or sport, avoiding exactly the diseases that are related to spending time in front of a computer or on the Internet, but I can agree with you, the great danger is being threatened by predators, of course, by sex offenders who use it, so let's call it a digital age, and you've mentioned and related to if I understand correctly, experts who deal with it, so as far as I know, in the criminal system are set up just like these people who specialize in this area, so I assume they're doing their job well, so that they should be improved, I can also agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9383	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9384	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. My review today will be about children's problems at risk. Children's rights are guaranteed by the Convention and should be the basis for any treatment of children and young people without exception, as well as for risk groups of children and young people. The real risk groups of children particularly came into focus during this year when facing a global pandemic of coronary viruses when we started talking more about domestic violence and all other risk factors whose intensity increased during the epidemic and which have a major negative impact on children's development and growth. As a society, we have a duty to enable safe and happy growing up to every child. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure equal opportunities for the growth and development of children regardless of whether they are located in rural or urban areas, in less or more developed areas of Croatia and regardless of economic opportunities or difficulties. In addition to regular education, which this year more than ever required the efforts and engagement of educational staff, vulnerable groups need additional assistance and support. One such is the social service of a half-day stay for particularly risky groups of children such as children with behavioral problems. In fact, often children living in poverty or poor family opportunities because they are neglected or abused, have behaviours they call help, flee from school, have poor grades, bad behavior at school, etc. And then it's about problems, kids with behavioral problems, and actually they're kids who live in some bad circumstances, and nobody deals with them. A half-day stay as an extra-institutional form of care for children and young people with behavioral problems enables systematic assistance and support in the development of skills and skills needed for everyday life, directs them and reduces the frequency of unwanted behaviours. It promotes the creation of new interests and better human relations and friendships and does not separate them from the known social environment, separates family and does not put on them the stigma of a child from a home that still carries a negative connotation in our society. The half-day stay is also important because it deals with both parents and raises awareness of the importance of schooling and schooling in children. Most of all, there is a need for members of Roma nationality, the problems that arise with them at school are an untimely application for enrolment in school, especially in the first grade of primary school, poor knowledge because they do not attend kindergartens and preschool programmes and irregular school attendance, then the illiteracy of parents and leaving school before the age of 15 are often due to early marriage. Examples of good practice show that half-day stays are a successful treatment which is also a form of prevention of institutionalisation in nursing homes or penal institutions in the future, which is why such forms of support and assistance to children and young people should be financed and supported in particular. In particular, I must stress that civil society organisations in our community play an important role in this, combined with the withdrawal of funds from the EU, the results are not only visible but also useful. Working with children at risk in need, especially in places with members of national minorities, is a great value that makes our society better. It is commendable to finance social services through projects, but I would also point out that a longer continuity of financial support is necessary to see concrete effects and results of work. It is necessary to find a model of social services financing when such projects are completed because it is necessary for the local community to have additional quality educational activities. This great role must take over both local and regional units to contribute to the development of social services in order to work together to improve the future of our children and thus the future of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9385	One is a replica, counterpart Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9386	Dear colleagues. You mentioned that it is a great responsibility to help or support children of poor property and children who do not regularly come to school by the local self-government unit and local community. I would like to introduce you this way to the fact that the units of local self-government and local communities are the first aid to these children, and it seems in this system and this state that the units of local self-government and local communities are the only ones who care about such children and when it comes to the children of the Roma national minority and any other child, are the units of local self-government and local communities and who care about them. What is necessary is that the problem needs to be dealt with systematically within the framework of national jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9387	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9388	Thank you, counselor. Well, you actually asked me a question and you gave me an answer and I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9389	Then let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9390	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the HS, the esteemed attorney with the co-workers, State Secretary in the ministry responsible for social policy. I'd like to return in the attorney general's report as long as it allows me to do two parts of her report, the first part related to specialised family courts, the second part for children's rights in the movement or the rights of children in migration as long as the time goes on. As for the first subject, as I have previously referred to as the Ombudsman in her opening statement, this initiative to set up specialised family courts who will have jurisdiction in all family legal proceedings is considered extremely valuable and, as it is also said in the report as regards data relating to the right of the child to live with parents and the right to parental care as the child's personal right in the report, it is said that within the personal rights of the child the most applied during 2019 was to the child's right to live with parents and parental care, and reports of infringements of children's rights to life with parents and parental care were most often related to parental disagreement in the organization of the child's life after termination of the family community or divorce and relate mainly to the treatment of other parents or relatives towards the child and part of them to the work of the competent authorities. I will remind you that over the past year, social care centres have intervened a total of 4,600 cases related to the manipulation of child rights during the divorce or termination of the parent’s or extramarital community and have imposed a total of 767 family legal protection measures precisely for the purposes of the manipulative behaviour of one or both parents. I would remind the Ministry of Social Policy last year that the basis of the agreement with UNICEF has developed professional instruments that will enable effective and what is very important on scientific knowledge based on an assessment of the manipulative behaviour of parents in conflict parenting situations, and precisely given the significant increase in the number of highly conflicting developments and manipulative behaviours of parents as well as the increase in the number of interventions and measures imposed on family legal protection, a standardised education programme has also been developed for providers of child welfare measures with a specific module relating to education related to separate and conflict parenting. And I believe that this is also one of the important shifts that would of course not immediately, but through one process of education, it should help to make the number of such situations of child rights as small as possible. As for the second topic I wanted to talk briefly about, which concerns the rights of children in the movement or the rights of children with migration, I would like to emphasise and commend the excellent cooperation of Mrs. Attorney General with both the Ministry and the Ministry of Interior and, on the basis of this cooperation, the Protocol on the treatment of unaccompanied children has also been drawn up. In the report you note and stress the lack of spatial capacity, I agree with you and, in this sense, the ministry last year has set two contact points precisely for the reception of migrant children, your report says that you received 10 applications that mainly referred to illegal individual and collective banishment of children by police officers at the border with BiH and Serbia, and for this very reason are certain contact points precisely for the reception of children without escort. I also understand your desire to establish specialised institutions. One of us is already on the way to the establishment, and if I consider and stress that we should take care to be specialised The institution wouldn't have had the ghettoisation of migrant children. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9391	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so let's move on, now it's time for your esteemed colleague Bull, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9392	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys with their associates. Rights violations in a child are very important, not just a subject, but in reality we need to work to protect our children, to develop normally, and about this we all unanimously had a similar attitude here. But when we look at the violation of the law, here I was talking about sexual maniacs, paedophiles, where those offenders of these most morbid parts, absolutely their punishments are, literally protected, they're more punished, I said that a fan who drinks in front of a stadium of prescribed beer than that sex maniac who lives on children. So we should work urgently on this as a legislator, as well as the Croatian government and other institutions. Of course there is violence against children and peers, we have social networks and, and everything modern technology has made possible today. However, I will talk here about one very important thing, and these are undeveloped areas and mountainous mountain areas where children do not have the same conditions, and we in Croatia have to fight in the assembly that all children in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia have the same conditions. We currently, 40 JLS have no ability to enable for one kindergarten child, meaning for one child to have a kindergarten, let alone something else. And when we talk about mountainous mountainous areas and talk about sports halls and undeveloped areas, they don't have the opportunity to see the sports hall, let alone use it. These children have no possibility of 2/3 of Croatia. So I didn't understand the presentation this morning, mostly a colleague from Dalmatia, like, Slavonia, Gorski Kotar on the part of the majority who said yes, did see how many kindergartens we made. But the results are devastating, I said 40% of JLS have no option for one child to allow kindergarten and of course the young man with his family will not remain there. That's why we have the defeating results. I said, here in the Cetitian province was 10 years ago. 800 first-graders registered, and today 2001, 2021, '20-21. The first class was enrolled in half 401, two classes less than last year in the school year, only the first class we speak, 42 classes less in the Cetina region. No, it's the same in Lica, it's the same in the property area, it's the same in Zagora complete, it's the same in Slavonia. 2000. In Barcelona, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that all EU members by 2020. that it will allow its children the possibility of kindergarten from 3rd to 6th year, not only babysitting but it is an educational process of kindergarten and those children who do not have 3rd to 6th year old, and 2/3 of Croatia do not have, they are, the research showed 20% in the less possibility of achieving higher education. And we need to talk about these kids, kids who don't have chalk in schools and, and, and, and sponges, and we're talking about modern technologies. We're talking about children who in their beautiful places, here in my Podnarj, Ilvo, Ogorje, Imotski end, Drnik neighborhood, there is mayor, there is no water supply, no water in their houses, no eee, 21st century. Here we have the villages of Rudo near the island, here I have listed under the silk, under the Kameshnica, in the face with no water supply. So they don't have to wash, bathe, depend on the DVD, and it's not a proper, correct tanker to get their seas in the middle of the summer, whether they bathe or not. That's the problem. We forget 2/3 of Croatia. I know that these lights are a collection of lip fellows and colleagues from the majority, but speaking we've built so many buildings. The fact that we have more counties, municipalities... It's kindergarten. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that money goes, there it is, let it analyze for the survival of people, that's why we have devastating results, so today we have below 4 million people. And protect the children, how are we going to protect the children of the esteemed attorney, how? Well, the base stations put you on kindergartens, next to people's windows. Here, teleopers are putting out uncontrollable spatial plans, and here we're throwing masks like we're protecting health, and electromagnetic radiation isn't like a problem, this is just one topic, it could be 1,000 topics. Why? For ye have no sense for them, and of course the maskes of the tribune warning, bring him forth out of the congregation: Throw him out, make up whatever you want. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9393	Replica one, Comrade Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9394	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I can't agree with you when you're talking about inaction when it comes to building kindergartens in rural areas. I will give you an example of my county, my Slavonia, Virovitica-Podravska County, 13 JLS, 13 small municipalities of which have been in the past 4 years. 11 municipalities built 11 new kindergartens and today an agreement was signed on the establishment of a public institution "Lipa" between 3 municipalities, Čacinci, Čajavica, Crnac to rationalise, rationalise the work of kindergartens and enable efficiency. It is not true, therefore, that in Croatia in rural areas they do not allow and create a condition for early preschool education for their children equally to their children. Compare your area with others, a great responsibility lies on the mayors of municipalities and on units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9395	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9396	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you know, as a former minister, what you're saying is incorrect, if you lie to a goat, don't lie to a horn, the fact is that demographic indicators say we won't need all of these buildings that we're now investing in and working in because you're too late, here's a colleague from Drnis here, the mayor, no more cats, because the mouse won't have a light of course, and cats no more, let alone people in certain areas, schools, let alone children, to hear children cry, that's true, schools are shutting down, here's an example of Bitelić at Sinj, here in the Croats, here in Trilj, here I's to you, so I think I'm telling you the facts and numbers, and you're here boasting something under these lights when we... Fire from Mars, so go with me, get in the car, and you'll see the schools crash where there used to be two or three kids, the roofs fail, there's no, there's no dick, why?, because of the bad policies, you have 500 municipalities and cities, so you have more municipalities than kids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9397	Let's move on, now it's time for our esteemed colleague, Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9398	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Advocates, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Children's Attorney's Report for 2019. The role of the Ombudsman for children is to monitor the work of the competent authorities at the general level, to detect difficulties and obstacles to the protection and exercise of children's rights and to point to them and to call for systematic problem-solving. The report describes a number of activities carried out during the year with children, meetings and cooperation and the work of a network of young counselors. During 2019, 1741 new applications, complaints, enquiries or requests related to infringement of individual rights of children were received. It was also handled in 933 items transferred from previous years, mainly due to the complexity and specificity of the problem that requires years of follow-up. And when we compare that, we see that we had 10% more applications for 2019 compared to the previous one, so more registrations in 2019 by 10% compared to 2018. We can see from the report that the number of cases of domestic violence has increased, 97 reports have been received, which is 35 more than the previous year. Nearly 2,200 children did not exercise the right to meet, associate with another parent, or have done so less times than is prescribed by a regulation because of the manipulative behavior of parents with whom the child lives or family members. Unfortunately, in highly conflicted divorces, children are the biggest victims, so we can see from the report that the Social Care Centres in the last year have intervened as many as 4600 times and said 767 measures, which is what I welcome the prosecutor's insistence on setting up specialised courts for children, of course all in improving children's rights. Last year, we have a sudden increase in child mortality, which is that we have 18 deaths more than the previous, 203 seriously injured. Of course, over the past year, there has been a rise in the number of reports of violations of the right to education and education. In the context of all events in 2019, education was not available to children for several months due to strikes in educational, educational and educational workers. According to the report's figures, violence is on the rise, and it's a major alarming problem, but we have to accept the fact that children imitate older ones, means that this violence is drawn from society, where parents, wider communities, schools, social networks, which means that we all have to engage more seriously together and show our example to young people that we want a zero tolerance society to violence, not to transfer responsibility from one another to another. In the Advocate General's conclusion, we highlight certain identified problems and weaknesses that require urgent and effective measures, especially in the protection of children from violence. In 2019, we have for the first time a clear indicator of how much the Republic of Croatia invests in children at national level, and we see that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy for the first time published the children's budget for 2019-2021, which is an important but first step in analysing and monitoring the efficiency of investments in children with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has implemented one of the important recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. The government is also constantly working to improve the protection of children's rights through investment in the construction of kindergartens, so we can see that over 500 kindergartens have been adapted, built or built in the last four years, two-way work in kindergartens, of course additionally and employment of kindergarten breeders. We can see by the new Law that a strong Centre for Special Care, the opening of a dislocated Centre, has made it easier for children to work, and thus we have improved and here we have improved through the employment of professional workers, or social workers, social educators and psychologists, but we all have to work together with joint efforts, professional work and cooperation to invest everything in improving the status of children's rights. Of course, there is a very important and local community, and therefore we must take care and not transfer problems from one to another, and I will just say it is difficult to be a child in this world of tired, busy, quick and impatient people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9399	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, first fellow Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9400	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Maksimchuk, although many times when it comes to the Attorney General's Reports, talk about how certain problems are being pointed out, we who were in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament still see those affirmative things that the Ombudsman pointed out. Everyone would like it to go as well as possible and as much as possible, but here I hope that the next report will mention when the singles and the family centres and their importance in promoting the rights of the child, because during the past Government, Andrej Plenkovic, you mentioned the centres for special custody and what is extremely important is the strengthening of the profession and in fact that institutions in the Republic of Croatia are synergy not of each other but of synergy, if they act then the question of children's rights will be better in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9401	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9402	Thank you very much. I must say and welcome that in my county of Brodo-Posavina, this family centre will be opened, I hope it will help to work, but here is what you yourself said by empowering the centre for special custody, the adoption of the new Household Act, all those things, and I am sure that in the next report we will see much more progress in relation to children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9403	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9404	Thank you very much. My colleague Maximchuk, I'm glad you mentioned the children's budget. It is important to stress that by adopting a children's budget in October of last year, Croatia is placed in half of those EU member states that have a child's budget and should say that this is not really about a specific budget but about a consolidated budget, so all those ministries that allocate money for children's rights, and in addition to that for the construction of kindergartens, schools, children's hospitals, financing of health staff salaries, educational staff, but also the funds allocated for maternity benefits, child benefits, etc. and will certainly be important in the coming period to monitor the spending of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9405	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9406	Thank you, colleague Bedeković, to see that a children's budget for the period 2019 has been adopted. – 2021 is as I said in the analysis of the effectiveness of investment in children, and thus the Republic of Croatia implemented one of the UN's important recommendations, the UN's actually Committee on Children's Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9407	And colleague Baradic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9408	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Maksimchuk, the continued work of the government attorney of the Republic of Croatia very important involvement of the local community as you mentioned in your debate. Local and regional self-government units should certainly be more strongly involved for the purpose of improving the state of children's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9409	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9410	Well, yes, here's an esteemed colleague I said in the debate that it is very important with national inclusion and local communities and it is very important not to transfer the responsibility of one another but only in the synergy of national and local policies and all of us together will take a step in the rights and improvement of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9411	Thank you, colleagues Maximchuk. Let's move on now is the honorary colleague Sanja Udovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9412	Thank you. Dear President, Advocates, colleagues and colleagues, here I would like to point out that the report on the work of the Ombudsman is very structured and really gives a quality overview of the indicators of the success of the Republic of Croatia in the exercise of children's rights, and everything in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is devastating, however, that in 2019 we marked 30 years since its adoption, and that we still record more gaps, recommendations for change than achievements. The lawyer’s report recognises a major problem of child rights in families, inadequate housing and children in institutions, foster families, as there is an increased separation of children from families due to parental neglect and child abuse. In the report as well as in the discussions we heard today, a great emphasis is placed on the cooperation of all stakeholders in the system from the government and the ministry to institutions, as well as the regional or local self-government. It is true that in 2019, we first received a clear indication of how much the Republic of Croatia invests in children at national level when the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy announced the first children's budget for the period 2019. - 2021. I absolutely support the initiative to ensure, in the next phase, a demonstration of actual separations including local and regional levels. This colleague and colleague isn't just a mere phrase. The fact that I am thinking about it is also the fact that as chief of staff, I initiated exactly the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance on the development of the children's budget, the development of the children's budget of the Municipality of Viskovo and it was made for 2019. - 2021. I wish the Advocate General had further checked the facts on the ground before the conclusion of this report and included the Municipality of Viskovo, who, according to my knowledge, is one of the municipalities, the only municipality in the Republic of Croatia that has produced a children's budget for 2019. The municipality of Viskovo planned more than 60 million kuna for children's rights from 2019 to 2021. Why am I saying this? Because it is important right here in the Croatian Parliament that municipalities, cities and counties play an extremely important role in ensuring the protection and enforcement of children's rights. We are their first address, and they will address it because we are the closest to them, and they can reach us the easiest. It's not a day goes by that I don't get a few questions about children's rights, which I answer either personally or my professional service, and I'm sure colleagues and colleagues who are like me and JLS leaders can confirm that. So municipalities, cities and counties provide funds for the construction and equipment of kindergartens, schools, co-financing of children's accommodations in pre-school institutions, ensuring public needs above standards in primary and secondary education, scholarships, school transport, marenda, free work notes, assistants in teaching and kindergartens. Just great needs and numerous activities with the aim of ensuring a better quality life for children with an emphasis on awareness of community and positive change, as well as improving the position of children through the initiative "Creating a stimulating and friendly environment for the growth and development of children", through the initiative "Creating a world according to the child", is saddened by central state intervention in a series of laws in order to bring practices across Croatia. This is only possible with a clear definition of obligations, but what is most important and really necessary here is the fiscal strengthening of municipalities, cities and counties precisely with the legally defined purpose of these funds because it is the only way we can evenly improve the conditions for the growth and development of our children. It is unacceptable for parents in some parts of Croatia to have a free kindergarten, while in some others they do not have kindergartens, and they often have to pay the full economic price of kindergartens that move around 2000 kuna per child. Just investing in the availability of pre-school education and education and their affordability literally to all layers of the population is necessary in the fight against poverty, but also the problems of the depopulation of Croatia. This is how Croatia stands very badly in relation to the Barcelona objectives today, and it is at the very beginning compared to other EU members. At first, I said the report was quality. However, the report is just a report. What Croatia needs is an action plan for children and young people with precisely defined goals, deadlines and financial resources. [[Intruder: Thank you]] What Is Most Important a clear distribution of who and what must be done. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9413	You have two replicas, so please stay. Please stay behind the pay phone. Comrade Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9414	Thank you, colleague Udovic, for ensuring in your municipality the visibility of investments in children through children's budget. I'm also glad it became a practice in the Republic of Croatia. And I share your view that it is necessary to expand this further to see how these investments move regionally and territorially because it may be the right way to recognize maybe those invisible inequalities in the quality of education and respect for children's rights to equal quality and accessible education, but also the way to even the rights that children consume because we know that very often from local leaders and their sensitivity to the importance of respecting children's rights depends on whether children will have a free kindergarten, whether they will have an extended stay, whether they will have secured secondary transportation fully financially, free of charge for their parents, which in this case unfortunately still still in Croatia is not a situation or... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9415	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9416	I thank my colleagues, and I'm glad we're actually thinking the same way. As head of local self-government, I am truly very aware of the protection of children and their rights. But we are witnessing in fact that it is not so in all local self-governments and in fact only through legal solutions and through uniform practice we can achieve it in the entire territory of the Republic, and how complex a problem I actually think today this debate here would not be enough for us to touch each of the segments that we need to regulate. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9417	My fellow Posavec, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9418	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Udovic, I would first of all like to congratulate you on the status of the Municipality of Viskovo as a municipality of friends of children. You are falling into a few municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and a few unfortunately cities that bear this honorary status "The Union of Our Children of Croatia" which, on this occasion, congratulate 70.g. Uninterrupted work and childcare. In fact, this example that you are talking about in the municipality of Viskovo confirms the importance of synergy between the local community and the civil sector or volunteers providing facilities for the free time of children, for their creative development. It would therefore encourage all those mayors, mayors sitting here with us, who do not yet have the status of the municipality or cities of friends of children to do their utmost to ensure this as so far as only two counties in the Republic of Croatia, Primorje-Gorski and Krapina-Zagorska. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9419	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9420	Here's my colleague, thank you. Here we are, we will help all the leaders who are interested in contacting them from our children's society to explain to them what this means. It's actually the crown of thinking about active policy towards children, what a local self-government can do and really here it is one commendable action and I'm glad you mentioned it. Of course it's actually binding and it obliges us to work additionally to improve the conditions for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9421	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Sabina Vosovac. And I'm sorry, Mirela Ahmetovic, I apologize. [[Agreement: from the bench: Mirela Ahmetović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9422	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys. Deputy Advocate's Office for 2019 as a document is exhausted, detailed and very informative. However, the conclusions on the state of protection of children's rights are, you will all agree, defeating. The situation of children should also be significantly improved in terms of legal regulations, but also materially. However, what is particularly worrying is the lack of cooperation between competent institutions with the Ombudsman for children. The esteemed attorney, she almost discourages the information you presented yesterday on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, that the institutions you addressed, and there are particularly important resolution ministries, accepted only 9 of your initiatives and recommendations and that 72 were rejected while 18 were just being taken into account. It was therefore very much analysed on which the rejected or unaccepted initiatives and recommendations were rejected in order to protect the rights of children in areas where your recommendations were rejected. We would assume that in these areas the situation is encouraging and that the number of rights violations in them is decreasing, so the competent institutions actually successfully implement their own solutions and do not need yours. But given the numerical data, we can see that the greatest increase in child rights violations is recorded in the area of child safety and protection, education rights and judicial protection rights. I would be pleased to see the growth of society's awareness of children's rights as a reason for increasing the number of child rights violations in these areas. However, reading data on the increasing reporting of infringements of individual rights of children, the absence of sanctioning of perpetrators and the absence of hearing by institutions to accept counsel's recommendation, I conclude that however, measures are missing which would certainly protect at least another child. Since this is the case for hours, I will look back on those violations of the judicial protection rights of children, in which violence against the child belongs, and psychologically, physically, especially sexually. So in 2019, we had 702 acts of sexual nature committed at the expense of children. So every day at least two children were sexually abused because we only talk about reported cases. Unfortunately, too often in the work of judicial institutions, abandonment of prosecution, mild condemnation, replacement of prison sentences by working for the greater good, so tea was 12.5% of such cases in 2018 or parole, which was 35% of the same in 2018. There is also too often the absence of security measures and measures to monitor the perpetrators. Out of 88% of the convictions for sexual delinquency committed to harming the child, only one measure of banning the exercise of activities in which regular contact with children is given. And the children are permanently traumatized and their lives are destroyed as their predator walks freely in their vicinity and lurks, of course, the next victim. And who's responsible for that? We're all responsible. And politics and justice and the whole public because of the inaction of the kind of abuse. As a politician and as a human being, especially when it comes to the life of a child, I do not accept and will never accept the alibis of the individual institutions that you quoted in your report that refer to the gaps in the law or the lack of labour. So we shut the holes, put predators behind the locators, put away imaginary jobs for political arrests, hire people who will protect and help the only one worth fighting for in this country, kids. I appeal to you, esteemed attorney, that this year you demand to take measures that will certainly help protect the rights of sexually abused children and monsters to which it comes to mind. Forever removed from their proximity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9423	We don't have a replica, so we can move on, dear colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9424	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected attorneys with associates, representatives of the ministries. I will personally support your report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2019, but I will also express my dissatisfaction with the fact that in 2019, in the area of children's educational rights, there have been a number of applications, i.e. in these segments, the highest increase in applications is recorded. And in this presentation, since I'm limited to time for 5 minutes, I would refer to that particular segment. Why? Because out of the government's obvious opinion of you, I have to notice, I don't know how these government opinions are structured, but I can see that the Ministry is so-called. The Ministry of Social Policy or Social Policy, very comprehensively responded to your comments, recommendations and measures and the Ministry of Education, I see that it is quite invisible or if I have seen it correctly and I have read it twice, perhaps a few lines are actually dedicated to your remarks and the measures you have sent them. It's not a good impression to me, and it's a complete disregard for the Ministry of Science and Education. When we talk about the content itself in your observations, in which parts have actually increased or reduced the educational rights of children compared to the previous year, then we can also see that in the good work of the Ministry of Science and Education it has produced. Why? You mention one of the problems and this is the inadequate representation of assistants or assistants in the follow-up for children with difficulties and the reason that many children in 2019 were left without help in the teaching class that they had until then was the new regulations of the Ministry of Science and Education which in some way supported those rules and I don't know whether for financial or other reasons, he left many children who were used to their assistants, assistants in the follow-up without adequate care and help. Furthermore, here you note that we still have a problem with the unequal availability of education, so you mention exactly these differences in the availability of extended stay, warm meal, transport, all of which are things that Croatia has been facing since yesterday, but I don't know where the important document is stuck, or is not a document, but is the intensity of the Ministry of Science and Education to go into infrastructure procedures throughout Croatia to ensure that in all schools in Croatia, primary schools are not only provided for an extended stay but a whole living room that would include adequate care, but also not less important and nutrition for children, where many schools, although they might want to do so, are not able to provide this because they do not have their own kitchen or have no spatial preconditions. Equally, what we cannot be satisfied with is the increase in peer violence, but not the fact that you mention that children are very often exposed to humiliation, discrimination by their own educational staff, and after the inspection even determines these failures nothing happens, actually these behaviors do not change. Please continue to insist that the Ministry of Science and Education chooses to hire educational and educational workers to check the previous condemnation of a person who comes into contact with children because it is a legal obligation, especially when we talk about persons, so it may be de facto if we do not check that in schools we are already punishing people for serious crimes at the expense of children, and that is something we cannot bear and that is something we do not have to tolerate, it is unacceptable because it is a legal obligation and it is... Infringement, violation of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And my brief appeal, let's get ready for this second wave of pandemics better on behalf of the children to give them psycho-social help, to ensure equal availability of education if they will have to move to model C, which is online teaching, where we saw that they were numerous failures a few months ago from lack of internet, space, help children and let's not let that happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9425	Thank you. Thank you. You have two replicas, you can stay. He's my first colleague, Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9426	Dear Representatives of the Voice, I fully support all of this you have said about the educational rights of children, I am sorry that you did not refer to the issue of strike and behaviour and the actions of the attorney-general at the time of the school strike, specifically to the meeting of the Secretary-General and the representatives of all three trade unions. Another problem related to children's educational rights, last year, if not mentioned in the report is that public, part of the media has called on children to mark Fridays for some special ideological political actions, and third thing, the Ombudsman has the opportunity to submit to the Assembly a special extraordinary report with this regular report when, especially at risk, children's rights are currently at stake in this case, so that it would be good for the Ombudsman to submit a report to the Council on the State of the Children's Rights, above all on schools at the time of the Coronus crisis. I specifically think of the very inhumane recommendations of the Staff that a teacher in a child who notices symptoms, isolates it, and keeps it isolated until parents arrive or an ambulance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9427	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9428	Thanks, buddy. I'll break up with you. As for this initiative of yours under point three, which you used... in the replica, I completely agree, in accordance with the procedural possibilities I don't think it would be too bad to see what part of children's rights were violated, especially in the time of the crown crisis when the whole of Croatia was in lockdown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for this first question and the lawyer's position during the longest strike in the history of free Croatia, I don't think she made much of a mistake, the children were primarily the victim of the lawyer, but the children's rights were the victim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which could have solved the problem long before, and we know why it was so long and why it became the longest strike in history, because of the war of the prime minister with employees in the education system, because of his stubbornness, and then the Minister Divjak who played the offended frill, so I'll say, perhaps politically incorrectly, I apologize if, and who actually wanted to use the Ombudsman to mediate in this war between... And the Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9429	Thank you. Thank you. My colleagues, Glamuzine, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9430	And fellow Glasovac, you have highlighted the lack of help in teaching children with developmental difficulties, as I mentioned earlier in one replica, Article 62. The laws of Croatia and children are giftedly treated as children with special educational needs, however no one mentions mentors for gifted children, i.e. the lack of these mentors as a problem although in various acts the mentorship of gifted children is mentioned as a method of working with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9431	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9432	My colleagues Glamuzina, a mentoring of gifted children, actually fell at this point to the enthusiasm of the educational and educational staff themselves, who, apart from those compulsory teaching content, worked with them were not prepared for competitions, but not only for competitions, but to silence their hunger for knowledge or the fact that they want to know more and that they have much strongerafinities for individual areas in the education system. When we talk about special approaches to all categories of children, the key to the education system is to recognize the afinity of every child that every child has, to recognize and develop it, and precisely because of that in the very initial concept of curricula reform, as it was imagined, it was to deviate from this model where unfortunately our educational system subordinated to the average, where we very often neglect children with special needs, which on the one hand are children with disabilities, others gifted, but this minister, unfortunately, took what was past due to her, and did not put into the implementation of the special curricula for the gifted and children with disabilities in development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9433	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's time for the esteemed colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go. I'm just, uh, here's a warning from the SDP Service that my colleague is one more than he should be, so I'm just asking you to consult with each other. Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9434	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. The right of children to be informed of any questions concerning them is guaranteed to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Ombudsman's Institute for Children is, in fact, the parent of these ideas and the claimant of the rights guaranteed by the Convention, and therefore I thank you for everything you do in promoting the rights of children. I believe that the Ombudsman's institution is very necessary in the Republic of Croatia, and I would not agree that it is expensive. What I don't agree with in this report is that it's unacceptable for religious content to be in school, I think that it can be understood in different ways, and then Valentine's Day can't be celebrated at school because it's a Catholic holiday of St Valentine's Day, we need to understand that we live in one Christian civilization and whether we practice faith or not, I don't think it's any way to discriminate against those who don't believe or who may believe, who belong to another religion. Since colleague Vidovic Kristo is underprivilegedly malicious on several occasions... The work of a very important health institution, Child and Youth Protection Center of the City of Zagreb, both health institutions and individuals working there, I will use this individual debate to say that this is a health institution founded in 2002, to date over 23,000 children, for example in 2018, Poliklinika helped more than 300 children victims of domestic violence, and other members of their families received support in Poliklinica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Children are treated on a multidisciplinary team, and on a daily basis, intersectorally co-operates with a system of social care, education, health, police and justice in order to protect them most effectively by all experts and all child protection institutions. No opinion is a sacred letter, but this is a legislative authority, and the judicial authority should at any time be questioned by anyone's opinion, therefore there are over-the-arts and therefore it is very important that what you mention is that the institutions be established by specialised courts. In Croatia, every fifth child is sexually abused and every fourth physically and emotionally abused, which makes it clear that one institution is very difficult to respond independently to the needs of children and families in this area. Still 50% of small patients in Poliklinic come from other parts of Croatia, and some of them from neighbouring countries for specialized treatment. With a large number of physically and sexually abused children, a growing number of children have been emotionally abused in a highly conflicting divorce of parents in recent years. In such divorces, manipulative parents often expect experts to take their side and write a report that will be used in a court of law with another parent without taking into account the interests and needs of the child at all. Seeking an ally when such a parent encounters an ethical and professional response to the profession, he rarely turns his anger towards a former partner to an expert who faces attacks, pressures and threats. Unfortunately, research and practice show that the most common child abusers are parents who will rarely, almost never admit their harmful treatment to children, but are trying to change their findings and opinions by pressing experts, with two of the most common goals. First, the pressures seek to obtain a change in the results of a multidisciplinary team in order to gain a more favourable position in criminal proceedings for the abuse of their own children who are being led against them. Second, they want to change the findings of what they want to write so that another parent loses custody or the right to see a child, or to falsely accuse the other parent of being a child molester. This makes the work of experts in this area much more challenging but does not justify that some experts in the child protection system do not want to deal with this problem, and unfortunately, in practice, this is exactly what is happening. So, as politicians, we are very responsible for what we say and the question arises whether certain health institutions have stopped doing diagnostics precisely because tomorrow, they're not, they're filling in media writings. I see here the same importance of media presentation as progress has been seen over the past years on the reporting of suicides, and so should be very careful when talking about highly conflicting divorce cases, because then children's rights are very compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9435	Thank you. We have four replicas, first fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9436	Thank you very much. Comrade Cellic, you first supported in your speech,... So you said that you disagreed with this part where you object to religious events, whether you're jumping into your mouth in that way, is that you're going to support the lawyer who says that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] suitable facilities of Christmas or St. Nicholas, or similar events held in Croatia, schools or kindergartens for children? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is not clear to me, and it is also not my opinion that in Vukovar, Croatia's Vukovar, we have two history in schools, one history for the Serb national minority, and the other is the history taught by Croatian children, tell me, Croatian national minorities, Croatian citizens, what is the attitude about it because you are in a coalition with the SDSS that opposes, which states such a history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9437	Thank you very much. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9438	Dear colleague Bulj, I am familiar with all the efforts and efforts of the Ombudsman for children, and to take out only one small part, in which I disagree with what the Ombudsman said, is definitely no reason not to support this report, so this report certainly has my absolute support, and personal support has an attorney for everything that makes children's rights better and better. As far as the University of Vukovar is concerned, I think children's rights are at risk because children are separated on a national basis, and I think it's high time for the city of Vukovar to be one school where children will go regardless of what nationality they are and whatever political party their parents belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9439	Another replica of my colleague Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9440	Dear Representative Celic, first of all, I disagree with your finding that the office is not too expensive, I believe that, from the perspective of what we get as a result that 5 million and 600 thousand kuna and 22 employees are too busy for one list of conditions with very few concrete measures and concrete proposals of legal solutions. And the other thing that I don't understand is you built it, you expressed a fence to this which smells a little bit like, of some kind of secular fundamentalism and disrespect for civilization first of all, the cultural context. But why, then, two members of your party made the same statement after the board who were members of the Committee of Resistance, defending St. Nikola and Christmas, here's the suggestion that everyone, by any means religious holiday or marking to move out of school, is like something contagious or embarrassing or something that would hurt someone's eyes? So I'm interested in your policy at all why you didn't ask. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to remove it from the report? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9441	Comrade Cellic, just hold on a second. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP are one more of you again, I ask you to stick to the rules we agreed on. ... No problem, the problem is if I let one club have more representatives then all the clubs can ask for it, so let's stick to the rules we've made. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, fellow Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9442	Dear Representative Rasludic, the report is prescribed and should be presented to HS. I don't think it's just some kind of manual and some 300 pages that we're discussing here today, but that's a lot, a lot more. This is about highly qualified professionals who are doing their job responsibly, who are visiting different institutions than kindergartens, schools, health institutions, and I definitely disagree with you here, but we don't have to agree on everything. As far as the report is concerned, so 300 pages don't think it's some crucial question that I should be against the prosecutor's report on children, I'm saying I don't personally agree, that, I had a need to point out. I don't think it's in any way discrimination against those children who come from different families, but we just need to learn about tolerance and dialogue by accepting others and different ones, and in this context we should look at and to what I brought out. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9443	Thank you. Comrade Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9444	Dear fellow Cellic, you inspired me to do this replica about this part of the tradition you don't need to run from. I don't fully agree with you here, but it's not part of my question. I would ask you what you can do, because part of the ruling majority and the party most powerful in the ruling coalition, that no more scenes like this happen and headlines like this, the mother of the first-class non-religious, they put him to sit back from the others because he was forced to sit in the room because of the measures caused by covid because the children were not allowed to leave the class and he was forced to sit in the class of religious science even though he didn't really want it, and his parents wanted it. If this isn't an eclectic violation of children's rights, then I don't know what it is. My question to you, is there anything you can do and stand up for the minister to be like this? Things don't happen anymore? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9445	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9446	Dear Representative Glasovac, I think that here, first of all, the principal or principal of the school needs to solve this problem, that it is definitely not a problem that needs to be addressed by the Minister of Science, should be mentioned if it appears. I don't ask for pork when I'm going to Islamic countries, so I don't think I'm being discriminated against because there's no pork in there. So in a country where the vast majority plead to Christians, I do not tell Catholics but Christians, I think that certain customs and traditions do not in any way drive anyone to practice any kind of faith. But on the other hand, I agree with you if parents insist that their children are absolutely entitled not to go to religious school, then school principals and school principals should ensure that these children are somewhere in a school somewhere in a classroom with a responsible person and that they are in no way discriminated against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9447	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9448	Dear Representative Glasovac, I think that here, first of all, the principal or principal of the school needs to solve this problem, that it is definitely not a problem that needs to be addressed by the Minister of Science, should be mentioned if it appears. I don't ask for pork when I'm going to Islamic countries, so I don't think I'm being discriminated against because there's no pork in there. So in a country where the vast majority plead to Christians, I do not tell Catholics but Christians, I think that certain customs and traditions do not in any way drive anyone to practice any kind of faith. But on the other hand, I agree with you if parents insist that their children are absolutely entitled not to go to religious school, then school principals and school principals should ensure that these children are somewhere in a school somewhere in a classroom with a responsible person and that they are in no way discriminated against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9449	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9450	Dear President, here's the situation where my colleague Glasovac and I have been thinking exactly the same about this case of the boy in the first class, so I'm going to respond to what you've said to your colleague. So I'm going to ask you as an expert and as a member of the majority, majority club in this House, do you approve of such a procedure? Do you feel that the rights of the child have been violated in that case? Do you feel that the child has been discriminated against, and even if there was no tolerance here, by the believer to this child, that even in some way the rights of not only the child but the rights of the parent, but primarily that the child's right to education has been violated? Because a situation like this can leave consequences for a child. How will that child continue to feel in the collective? when he was forced back to be turned towards his friends [[Intruder: Thank you]] And listen to content he doesn't want? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9451	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9452	I find it inappropriate that the child should be turned around. In the first grade of elementary school in vernacular, he certainly couldn't hear anything wrong and I don't see that it's discrimination in any way. I say that, in my opinion, it's primarily a technical question, parents whose children don't go to religious science, have absolutely the right to do so, and school principals and school principals need to ensure where these children are, either one, five or 10 children who don't attend religious studies. So it's a matter of primarily organisational nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9453	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague named Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9454	Dear proposings, colleagues and colleagues, this report is very comprehensive, this report when you read it, you see all the problems this society faces, but this report is actually a list of the failures of this society. To this society, on this report the government gave its conclusion to me which day is on 20 and some pages. 20 and some pages of the government were obvious which in this report she considered illogical, which in this report was resolved by some law, but did not say that these were not the problems mentioned in the report. When you look at the report, this report, and then you take a little time to look back three, four years, then you see that similar things are listed in one, the other, the third report, without problems being solved. In this report, what you can see from previous reports is an increase in the number of problems or infringements of the right of the child, but at the same time we all witness that these children in Croatia have fewer. This means that it is an increase in the problems that arise, i.e. the violation of rights, even greater. And as the Ombudsman presented this report, she said that these problems should be resolved in a cross-resor way between ministries or different institutions there should separate two things. One is the individual problems that arise from let's say bad society and another are structural problems. These structural problems are what society or responsible state is responsible for. And these structural problems could and should have been affected as soon as possible, and I will now mention several examples here. One example is the demographic policy of the City of Zagreb, which I have not seen even commendation on here, and I have not seen any regrets. In this demographic policy in the City of Zagreb, you have the status of a parent mother who was given to persons who had three and more children and of those three and more children one of the goals why this instrument was introduced was, of course, winning elections in the City of Zagreb, but the other thing was that children did not go to kindergarten because it reduced the pressure of those three children on kindergarten. Well then, in the City of Zagreb, there are plenty of places in kindergarten. I'm asking you, do you really think that's right? Do you really think that children whose parents have more children should not go to kindergarten, should not be socialised, should not interact with other children? Another problem we have been able to meet with the truth for the sake of our will lately he has been able to present himself in this report, which is access to sports in the City of Zagreb and access to school halls, you mentioned something in your debate. One of the basic things about growing up is let's say healthy growing up, this healthy growing up is most often and can probably be achieved by sport. In the City of Zagreb, the ministry's recommendations prohibit sports activities in school halls where all children in the City of Zagreb are now owned, and that is a huge number of children have no place to play sports. There are various recommendations, not to mention how much these children are actually suffering from being unable to attend sports activities today. One of the objections to the decision that was made there was that the same sport could only be dealt with from the same class. And with all these accumulated problems that we have as an opposition we could actually very easily face if we had a plan to solve these problems and within what time and then we could be constructive and follow the government what it does. What's missing here Here's a second, what's missing from this report is some kind of time plan or government plan to solve these problems. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9455	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9456	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, why you waste time on idiots, which is a sanction if they are not answered, will report us to the Commissioner for Information, appeal to the Ombudsman for the protection of disabled people. In these words, the mayor of Sisak, about a year ago, tried to offend and demean members of a sports club by banning him from entering the city hall. In a hall whose construction will be paid for by our children. Despite decisions made by the competent institutions and orders of the sports inspection from 2019 that the disciplined members of the hockey club must be allowed dates in the Sisak ice hall of children from the club only this season. Discrimination of children taking place by belonging to a certain sports club in Sisak is a painful topic as well as watching these children come with coaches outside the entrance of the ice hall and at the orders of the city chief lock their doors, while security guards are placed at the entrance as in some ugly film. Since this season, it seemed that the legal battle still served justice, but for a short time. The termins they received for training in the hall are two terms, ranging from half ten to half eleven in the evening, and children from 8 to 13 years of age are therefore primary children. While other children go to sleep at that time, this group of small Sishkens only then has the permission to go out on ice. This has been reported by numerous media, about self-will and discrimination and twilight over the city of Croatian victories, in which children became hostages of the SDP mayor's will. The term that due to multiple pressures from the public finally seems to have been assigned just to satisfy the order of a sports inspection and with a hidden message, you asked for the terms here's the time when other children go to sleep. The Ombudsman’s report states that the maximum number of applications and complaints is recorded in the field of educational rights. Who's going to be responsible for the poor quality of children's sleep, tiredness and concentration in class? How do you protect children who are being discriminated against by Mayor Kristina Ikić Bankiček with his associates? Another big problem is in our kindergartens, while my Siscani pay one of the most expensive prices of kindergartens that is higher than the price of kindergartens in many other cities, including Zagreb, raisers' salaries are among the lowest of all kindergartens in the country. As the City Organisation of HDZ, Sisak has found funds in the budget to reduce the cost of kindergartens in order to relieve parents, and that part of the money is distributed from the child's other needs. Mayor Kristina Ikić Baniček was not interested in this but also reduced her salary to kindergarten raisers. It is sad that a teacher in a mammalian kindergarten with a responsible job such as caring, caring and raising our children has a salary of 5,000 kuna, and an average teacher cares about twenty children and shuts up about fear of being fired or leaving kindergarten in search of a better paid job. The responsibility is great, and the founder of the kindergarten town of Sisak whose head is Kristina Ikić Baniček does not care. So it happens to us that in September kindergarten "Sisak Star" announced a tender for the employment of 10 teachers of preschool children to an indefinite and a few others. The teachers in Sisak are working under difficult conditions, and unfortunately, during a long period of time, they are likely to reflect on children and not on the guilt of educators. Thus irresponsible behaviours of law-abiding, disrespecting decisions of state institutions, manipulating official documents and using a lever of political power to deal with inexplicables produce the effect that citizens are hostages of a political family. In view of the experience unfortunately recommendations in the Sisak case will not be enough, we need to find other tools for concrete protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9457	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative is Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Representative Celjak. Although I don't come from Sisak since the theme of ice hockey is I have to take this. So, I know there was a problem when the Leden Hall “Zibel” was built and there are two hockey clubs, Sisak is historically important for ice hockey in the Republic of Croatia although it is not some sport that many Croatians and Croats and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are watching, but here is one bad example of a local leader who dared to discriminate against children just because children belong to one or another club. I think it's a good thing that you pointed out and regardless of who was in charge of the town of Sisak, so whether it's SDP, HDZ or some third political option this is a negative example of how local leaders play local sheriffs and discriminate on children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9459	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9460	Dear colleague, thank you very much. I agree with you. We all need to take care of the protection of our children or the protection of the rights of children, especially those who have political authority, and these are the leaders of the local self-government unit. In this particular case, instead of the mayor being the first to defend the rights of children, she is the one who discriminates against children and prevents them from having access to sports content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9461	The next replica is Honorable representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9462	I must regret to say that it isn't, it doesn't seem correct to present information that is neither supported in fact nor has the opportunity or opportunity to be denied. I can say that this harsh accusation of mayor Sisak manipulating children is not a contribution to solving what we are talking about here today about children and children's welfare. As far as I know when it comes to this ice hall, this is about a club that was later founded, which doesn't even have a founder in the town of Sisak itself, but is from Delnica or I don't know where, so it's a special story, but the town of Sisak is a friend of children, has a hospital of Friends of Children, it's built 50 children's playgrounds. Every elementary school in Sisak has its own sports hall, so much is invested in education, we have new kindergarten facilities every year. I don't understand what the problem is, I don't think it's right to use this pay phone for that kind of reckoning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9463	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9464	Dear fellow Vidovic, thank you very much for your findings. But I also, since you're coming from Sisak, I think you're familiar with the fact that the hockey club I'm talking about has received two decisions from the arbitration court for your own benefit, and that he's also received sports inspection solutions for his own benefit in which responsible people of the town of Sisak have been ordered to provide them with terms in the ice hall, which unfortunately hasn't been done until they've been fined. And it really turns out that the terms are only assigned to satisfy the form, but they are also assigned terms that are not suitable for primary school children. So, dates from 21.30 to 22.30 when children between 8 and 13 should go to sleep.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9465	No more replicas. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9466	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome all of you, in the work of the Ombudsman for children with co-workers, respected secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues all together, in the work of the children for 2019, the report shows that the largest number of applications related to the protection of children from inappropriate content of television and other advertisements, and to the participation of children in promotional activities, children are still not adequately protected from potentially negative influences of advertising and the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the UN remains concerned and recognized this as a huge problem that children are still exposed to inappropriate media content such as advertising pornography and alcohol, and for example in our cities you will see buses that are covered by the advertisements of a casino, and then they are manipulated to young people by calling on them to play, to gamble, to win 1,000 or millions of kuna, etc., and to protect them from this law. Also, since the International White Stick Day is being marked today, the day of the blind would also want to be linked to the position of the undersighted children. The blind are cared for by the fundamental associations and the Croatian Association of Blinds as a roof organization and just the Croatian Association of Blinds is appealing to bring an inclusive supplement that should not be burdened by either property or income censorship because it is designed as a compensatory measure due to an increase in the cost of living based on the disability of the blind. I am sure that the government, headed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, will bring this long-awaited law to the satisfaction of all interested people, but also the association of blind people throughout Croatia and the alliance in sensitization of the public on problems but also the possibilities of the blind and all of us must be an inspiration in their efforts to integrate blind and impaired persons more into all social life pores especially in the labour market and through educational processes, and I will point out here that in January this year, the parents of blind children sent an open letter of difficulties in their education and the distribution of textbooks in Braille's letter. Namely, since the integration of the blind, blind in regular education takes place and their difficulties with late textbooks on this Braille letter and the blind children don't actually have textbooks for all subjects. I am pleased that the resolution ministry has recognised the problem and I believe that progress in this field can be expected recently. We must really do everything to improve the exercise of all the rights of our children, especially the rights of children with disabilities and other difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9467	Here, you have a replica, the esteemed representative of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9468	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, we're in the same county, so I'll just ask your opinion. Do you feel that the mayor of Split is personally responsible because the club for free climbing gives children a term of 10.30 to 11.30 and the club uses the city space, is that the responsibility of the mayor of Split?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9469	So is the city the founder of that association? If the city is the founder of that association, it's certainly a responsibility, if it isn't, yes. Any more replicas? No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9470	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9471	My colleagues and colleagues with no intention of being pathetic and dramatic, maybe just for a little more understanding. Let's imagine our two county centers Gospić and Pazin, for example, all the inhabitants of these two cities in Croatia every day, the only warm meal they get, they get from the parents who brought them from the soup kitchen in the small country of Croatia. 20,000 children are the only hot meal from the soup kitchen. Let's imagine two major county centers of Bjelovar and Sibenik, for example. or 70,000 children in Croatia do not have their own bed. Or imagine a second city the size of Croatia, which is Split from 250 to 300,000 of our children living in either the poverty zone or below the poverty line. And this isn't just about relative poverty, it's not just that these kids can't buy themselves an Iphone or the latest I don't know tennis shoes, etc., it's not about not being granted what is considered a basic need in Croatian society, that they can't afford to have a birthday party or go to a party of their friends' birthdays or vacations or healthy meals. They're children who don't have Internet, they're children who don't have phones, they're children who don't have phones, they're children who often don't have electricity, they'll have even less when the performances of those who will be completed because they didn't have anything to pay for the directorship, and there's a million and 200 thousand people in Croatia, so a quarter of our population living in the poverty zone. What does it mean to grow up in poverty? Growing up in poverty means counting with a poor outcome in cognitive development of children, that means having a worse outcome in school success, that means having a worse outcome in health, that means having a less socialization, that means going into a marginal zone for life, and that's what is the crucial issue of this country. I say I won't be pathetic, but these discussions, when we discuss children, this is a debate about the country, about the state. What's the state for? When we boast and talk about our achievements in that we have entered the EU, I don't know, etc. rapper lacmus is what we did for the state and how people in it live and how children live. The poor are more exposed to abuse, poorer are exposed to criminal behaviour and is also a problem with the intergenerational transmission of poverty. This is not a social policy issue, this is a problem of society, of the country as a whole. Since I still have a minute to say that, some things can be done right away. 17 years ago when I initiated the adoption and introduction of this institution they told me it was unnecessary, on 300 pages of the report it says it is very necessary but only if we hear it. First of all, I think of those who have to do something in this country. This is not a question of social policy, so this is a whole development strategy issue. And now that we're preaching the 2020-2030 strategy, I wonder if this will be the goals that we have to achieve? Let's say we have at least 80% coverage of kindergarten children, if we can't have 96% of Slovenia. These are crucial questions for us as a country and for us as a society. We can go straight away with free meals at school. That's what this country can afford. There are even these big trade chains that have started donating food to local schools and those municipalities that are unable to finance, make, maintain kindergartens there is already something in this sense started or these municipalities need not exist or take responsibility for this cognitive development of this investment in children because this is the most important investment that we can have as a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9472	We have two replicas, the first is the distinguished representative Murganić Nada.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9473	Thank you. Your Honor. I had a discussion recently on child poverty, and probably since you and I have been doing the same job or duty for a while, we have read probably similar research by some of our professors from college and I fully support your debate and I think that it is precisely the poverty of children, children living in poor households that is one of the biggest problems and that should be working on prevention. And the worst of all that we do, we know how to say laykish one social one time always social, we've been in contact with our families for generations, which means that for years we've systematically abandoned our citizens and that category that needs the most help of society and states because it can't be done because it can't be taken care of itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9474	I thank you for your support and for your agreement. The point is that this must not be seen as a question of a sound social issue. Investment in children's social investment is a key social investment, which is worth hundreds of times more than any Pelješki bridge, which I don't underestimate and its importance. So it can't be a matter of one resistor. We have a strategy to fight poverty, the question of how it is implemented, how coordinated our resolutions, how trained they are, and how focused we have it when we talk about it... we're going to make a budget. Let's remember what we're talking about now when the state budget is being passed. It's not such a big investment, it's not such a big investment that we as a country couldn't do it. We have fallen in the last 4.5.6 years from 13.5% to 21% of the share of poor children in the population. We don't need that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9475	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9476	Thank you, Vice-President Kolega Vidovic, I think that you have now reached the end of this multi-hour debate here in the Croatian Parliament and touched the essence we need to talk about in Croatia. You have shown us the way children live in Croatia today. You have shown us how many children are inaccessible to what they should have for healthy and normal development, which they should have as happy children building a happy future in this country tomorrow. But my colleague Vidovic, correct me if I'm wrong, if I may have misremembered the data, remains in my memory that just mentioning the budget here and the rebalancing is this year half a billion off the items you're talking about, with positions that should have been focused on social investment for those most vulnerable to extract resources from them, and in fact this government took half a billion kuna from those items in the past term, because it could not invest them in children or in the most needed ones. Did I misremember that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9477	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9478	Okay, this is about about 350 million people being taken from the position of the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, and somewhere, somewhere around 106 million kuna has been rebalanced from social, social protection positions, which is, of course, difficult to accept in terms of covid and this and increased pressure actually on the family because most countries have increased the actual isolation of these most vulnerable categories. So, the covid crisis continues, that we're not in lockdown that's one thing, but an increased, increased pressure on the families of the poorest requires some kind of intervention. We expect that the government will offer something in this regard rather than going into any kind of restrictions towards the very most vulnerable groups of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9479	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9480	Dear Vice President, the esteemed, esteemed attorney, the government's representative. In the report, you state that the most complaints are related to the right to parental care and relate to the dissatisfaction of parents with a decision or to the initiation of proceedings for their decision. The fact is that according to the Family Law, after noting the maximum duration of the measure, the right to stay with a child for a year with a possibility to extend for a maximum of one more year, and if the conditions for returning the child to the family are not met, the measures to deprive the parent's care remain as the only possible option. You notice that the centre is difficult to decide to initiate proceedings before the court of law, and if deprivement procedures are often long and long-term. In every working experience, I had a number of situations where the court was and did not act according to the proposal of the Social Care Centre. Even in the complaint of the centre, I will also quote the explanation from one, one county solution or the decision of the county court. The fact that parents of a young child because of their long-term dependence on alcohol and drugs tended to violently resolve conflicts with inadequate parenting methods, failure to cooperate with the centre to establish quality educational patterns, severely hurt their parental duties and will not be able to provide the child with adequate parental care that he now has in the parenting family without significant changes in his lifestyle, treatment, and behaviour. On the other hand, each child should live in his family, and the deprivation of parental care is a drastic and most difficult family legal measure that can be imposed against parents in order to protect the child’s personal interests, rights and well - being. This measure means a complete disabling of parental care for the child and should, in any case, be pronounced, caused by drastic abuses or harsh neglect of parental rights when improvement cannot be expected and where any delay of such a measure would adversely affect the child’s well-being. These sentences of the court's solution are contrary to each other and this is the court's solution that's brought in directly opposite to the child's well-being and interests, while protecting biological parenting. I am pleased that in your answer to my question, the Ombudsman agreed that such a procedure requires much more courage and determination for those who decide, which is the center for social care or court. First of all, it is necessary to invest in education, and to invest with courts in the expertise and sense of competence. I believe that the courts are now not well organized and that some judges do not have the competence to want, neither the desire nor the will to learn and improve in the area of family legal protection. Judges are obliged to respond to calls for inter-resorship cooperation and with kindergartens, schools, police, welfare centres, lawyers, be strong advocates and protectors of children's rights. In this context, we support the establishment of family courts that would be responsible for the area of family legal protection, and in order to enable professional training and education in a specific area. The kind of protection system we now have in the courts is unsustainable and extremely harmful to children. As a result of the development and digital age, as well as the impact of social networks in the report, you mention the lack of empathy, or less empathy in peers, and increased peer violence. The availability of preventive programmes is not equal in the Republic of Croatia and there is a serious problem in setting priorities by the mayors and mayors. It is important to create a social home, but the problem is when it should serve a greater purpose and, for example, be a place for workshops with children, playgrounds and the like. We are unhappy that our children spend time on computers, and when children need to offer content in the local community there is no hearing from the local community itself, without talking about mayors and mayors who are often priorities, who are often priorities somewhere away from family and children. Every delay in providing services to children in the community is a missed opportunity to build talent and healthy growth and development of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9481	Next, the debate ended, on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, prominent representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9482	Vice President HS. There has been a lot of debate and it can generally be concluded that somehow we all agreed on protection, enhanced protection and enhanced rights of our youngest members of society, our children. A number of policies are important, not just social policy and the social care that was most discussed here. It would highlight a particular policy, a family policy for every child is precious growing up in his family, and we need to do everything we can to strengthen the family to help young families to get in their community and to build a parent home within their home and family with their children. Of course, the past government recognized it, and this one will now put it as one priority through various assistance to families, financial assistance, compensation, increased maternity and parental benefits, the scope and scope of child support users, co-financed housing lending programmes with the incentive to postpone or increase the number of wars co-financed for each child born. They build and co-finance kindergartens, allow employment so kindergartens can work shifts according to the working hours of their parents. Certainly, with higher wages and jobs, a favourable socioeconomic environment is created for the growth and development of a child in his family. What we should point out is prevention, unfortunately that word came out so much that sometimes we forget what it's supposed to mean. It is important for us to recognize a child who has any risk of poverty from any changes in health care during the earliest days of education. At times, kindergartens, especially schools, had a team of various experts who could in time prevent and detect the needs of a child and she directed them and intervened towards the institutions or intervened in the family. What we like to say when problems come to the welfare center, they certainly culminated and it is very difficult to act quickly and efficiently on them, and the measures that go in the direction of family legal protection or related to child behavior disorders are certainly not as effective as early intervention. We believe that the family centers will contribute. We've been talking about foster care here, we've been talking about child accommodation in institutions, and I'd like to stress that we should not and should not underestimate institutions and institutions. Of course, family, replacement family and foster family, foster care is something more quality, but until we fully develop these systems, we have to cultivate work in our institutions that have a tradition where the concentration of expertise, in which there are many children, we talk about bad examples and we need to talk about bad examples, but many children are our home, shelter and are created young people who have the same chance of living than they were not placed in an institution. And very often we talk about whether, what needs to be done from the government level, and what can be done from the level of local self-government and certainly that both can be done from both sides. I would say and boast and point out as an argument that there is much that can be done in the local community. Today Radio Network announced that 14 Bosnian children will attend their kindergarten in Bosiljevo and that at the same time they are opening kindergartens in Novigrad on Dobri, in Plaško and in other municipalities. Karlovac County has 17 municipalities and 5 cities. I will not mention cities they have a few kindergartens, but each of our municipalities has 1 or more kindergartens, and thanks to the synergy of the Government which has enabled co-financing of the accommodation of children and the Ministry of Science and Education, which through the regulations allowed space in schools to be re-purposed to kindergarten and joint professional services, the director is one for both institutions of the institution. So you can, and we have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9483	The next final address on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9484	Here, thank you, Vice President. Respected lawyers with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues speak about the rights of children, both of course and each other, should at least withdraw inclusiveness and multidisciplinaryness with a clear premise of good. Partly looking at this report is not in line with the agendas of what is presented and what should be. For example, the report does not respond to conditions that are absolutely inappropriate for children of the school age in which the child’s headquarters’s recommendations are once again available after sneezing or coughing in class, it is sent to a special room according to the recommendations already mentioned. Therefore, the report does not refer to the condition of that and such a child, but I do not know the basis of which sample refers to prayer and various religious celebrations as those who discriminate and which should actually be removed from the school system as such. This attitude of this report is an indication of absolute loss or actually the beginning of the end of what is in the habitat of this people, these families and each individual. Prayer and all mention in it bear and reflect absolutely good and inclusiveness and acceptance of a different and in no way exclusive. If prayer is what protects children from, I wonder if such and similar reports in the coming years include perhaps the anniversary of the fall of Vukovar or the entire Homeland War and heroes of the same as the topics that discriminate and as topics that are actually one call to hatred or if not, do not give God a hate speech. The possibility of choice in schools certainly yes, but certainly not a falsified authority that will define what is important and what is not. And now know that all of us who raise our hands for a report like this, and we come from the right political spectrum, on Sunday when we come to our houses before the Holy Mass, when we look into the eyes of any kid or any man who chose us, I suggest we put our heads down because obviously we turn this country around, but let's keep in mind we eat and drink to live, and we don't live to eat and drink. MOST independent lists will not support the report of this... from the D.A.'s office. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9485	On behalf of the promoter, finally imported Helena Pirnat Dragicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9486	Honorable parliamentary deputies, respected, pardoned vice president, respected parliamentary representatives. I thank you for this debate and for all the views and thoughts that have been expressed. I see by the representatives' reactions that the report absolutely prompted reflections on the state of children's rights in the country, and that was ultimately our goal. The report was extensive and sought objectively to demonstrate the status of children's rights. A lot has been said for the report itself during your debate. We met or discussed a number of topics in the report. I'm sorry I may not have enough time to look back at each of them. However, in principle, what we all agree or agree on is that the focus of a child is to improve the protection of children's rights is to cooperate with all stakeholders of society regardless of the political option. I hope, too, that in further work as an office, we will have your support in our initiatives and recommendations that are always aimed at improving children's rights. What I have to do in some way is I think, so I'm done and I'm just a written report, that our society has resources, there are regulations and human potentials to protect children and for their well-being, but in that we haven't yet achieved all that we can, or what we have to do. Through joint efforts of cooperation, professional work and joint activities, we can improve the state of children's rights and do everything we can to ensure that children can truly live their rights, especially in these particularly modified and demanding living conditions. And let me end up talking to the kids as an attorney even from this place. I will take the opportunity to thank all of our children who, in these difficult times and uncertain times, have put up with a great burden and have proved extremely responsible and adaptable because they have very quickly accepted and adapted to the emerging situation, as well as to the transition from regular teaching to distance, as well as the return to school with respect to all epidemiological measures. Here, in this way I would once again thank everyone for participating in the debate and complete this report of mys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9487	There's a replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9488	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we've been arguing all day about, I don't know, my colleague Cellic has something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9489	Please don't win, please don't win, Mr. Bull, finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9490	Can you give me back, I've been muffled by my colleague Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9491	Give him back his time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9492	Can he come and say it? Here's the Honorable Attorney General, Minister, the situation is not good for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9493	Mr. Bull, don't argue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9494	And you can see they're talking to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9495	So say the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9496	So remind them, I mean, I can't say when they get into a roar, if you dare.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9498	If you can, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9500	Thank you very much. Give me back my time. Well, I mean, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I don't, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would only briefly say here that I am expressing enormous dissatisfaction with what in the Republic of Croatia are protected sexual maniacs who are sexually over children, protected as lyrical bears. The fan, I said, when he drinks in front of the stadium, a beer is more sanctioned than those maniacs and they give it to free Croatian countries, it is one of the key problems, one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia which all children do not have the same option. This is why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, from Slavonia, Gorski kotar, Like, burn. There's Mayor Drnish, Imotsky, if they support this report, and the situation is catastrophic, the situation is unsustainable. These children do not have the same ability to play sports, have no kindergartens, and therefore move out. Once again, in Croatia all children in the area do not have the same option, it is a key problem Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9501	Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9502	I thank you for this actually comment, or for what we agreed on, which is to point to unequal opportunities for all children in the Republic of Croatia and for what we all have to advocate, so that this inequality is as little as possible, or ultimately, that it does not exist. As far as sexual predators are concerned, I'll agree with you, and as an office, we've been dealing with this problem for a long time and we're in favour. In the past year, we ourselves have proposed an amendment to the Penal Code in the sense that the ban on speaking to general well-convicted sex offenders is legally regulated, to prescribe a ban on working with children with the rightful conviction for sexual abuse, or another newspaper. Of all things, however, only one of our proposals has passed, which is that the act of sexual harassment of children is being prosecuted by official duty. We agree and point to overly mild sanctions Excuse me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9503	Thank you very much. Here's what we've completely exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2019 Carrier Croatian National Bank based on Article. 62nd Act on CNB. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The Honorable Governor of the CNB, Mr. Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9506	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all for the first time in this new 10th meeting of the HS. In line with the legal obligation, today, I will present half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy relating to the second half of 2019. Although this report refers to the second half of 2019, you will allow me to say something about the activity of the CNB during the pandemic or during the occurrence of the virus coronary due to the exceptional economic circumstances that marked the year 2020. But first on the second half of 2019, the theme of my address today. All last year, it marked a solid GDP growth, although in the second half of the work of economic activity of 2.7% slowed slightly compared to the first half of 2019. The increase in real economic activity was the most contributed by an increase in total exports while at the same time a strong slowdown in imports of goods and services. In addition to favourable developments in international exchange for overall economic growth, domestic demand has contributed. Personal consumption of components is a domestic demand that has made the most powerful contribution to growth as a result of the extension, primarily favourable labour market developments and household borrowing growth under the record high level of consumer optimism, which has marked all over 2019. Moderate investment growth continued as the government's consumption grew in similar dynamics as in the first term. The favourable developments in the labour market have been reflected in the follow-up of widespread employment growth, with the largest increase recorded in the activities of construction, IT and business services and services related to tourism. In parallel, unemployment continued to decrease and was 7.4% of the workforce, which is a seasonally adjusted administrative unemployment rate in the second half of 2019. Salaries also continued to grow, so the average nominal gross salary at the end of 2019 was 3.8% higher than in the same period of the previous year, and the purchasing power of the salary increased by almost 3%. Strong domestic demand with an increase in labour costs that exceeded productivity growth did not significantly affect inflation at a relatively low level. Consumer price inflation accelerated from 0.6% in June to 1.4% in December, primarily under the influence of faster price growth of unprocessed food and energy products, which otherwise significantly affect the inflation rate in Croatia. The acceleration of inflation was particularly expressed in December due to an increase in the annual rate of meat and oil prices. Basic inflation only slightly accelerated from 1.1% in June 2019 to 1.2% in December. We are counting on basic inflation by excluding more fickle items that depend on factors such as the situation in individual international markets of goods or weather conditions than monetary policy and the dynamics of economic activity. In short, there are no inflationary pressures in 2019 or 2020, but there is no fear of deflation. Very short on developments in economic relations with abroad at the end of 2019, the surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments to remind Croatia of its entry into the EU to date, and we expect that it will have a significant increase in the same period of the previous year, primarily thanks to the mentioned growth in the export of services. Accordingly, relative indicators of foreign debt and the state of international investment continued to improve. These were outlines of the macroeconomic context in which the CNB acted during last year or during the second half of last year. In that period, the CNB continued to implement expansion monetary policy by supporting the high liquidity of the monetary system...... and maintaining the nominal exchange rate according to the EUR stable. We continued to offer banks short-term kuna funds through regular weekly operations, but the banks were not at all interested in additional liquidity since what we call structural surplus liquidity and liquidity that banks have, but they do not use, was all that time at a very high level. Among other things, thanks to this high liquidity, the conditions for funding of all domestic sectors, other words of the population, businesses and states, continued to improve. Annual growth, which means that interest rates are in 2019. continuously declines for all segments for both the state and the population and businesses. The annual growth of the companies in 2019 was influenced by the operational implementation of the Forta new credentials' settlement, while the population's population growth has accelerated. This helped to speed up the growth of housing loans by continuing to implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme to subsidise these loans, etc. APNs. On the other hand, the annual growth of non-intentional cash credits has slowed under the influence of tightening credit approval criteria following the coordination of credit institutions with the CNB's recommendation on the treatment of non-permanent loans to consumers issued at the end of February 2019. You'll remember for sure some of you that we purposely wanted to slow down the growth of cash credits, because we thought that it poses risks for banks in case it comes back to recession, which happened in the end line this year under the influence of the virus's corona. Of course we couldn't know there was going to be a thing in the coronary virus, but the recession was created for very different reasons and it's very difficult to predict when it would happen. I'll take a brief look at fiscal policy and public debt. In the second half of 2019, the general government's surplus budget of 2.7 billion kuna was achieved, primarily due to slightly faster growth in total revenues compared to total expenditure. Total budget surplus of nearly 1.5 billion kuna and 0.4% of GDP was reached at 2019 level. Thanks to the positive fiscal balance and GDP growth, the share of public debt in GDP stood at the end of December 2019 at 73.2%, which is less than the rate of 1% compared to June and half last year respectively. As regards the international reserves of the CNB, they were 6.4% higher compared to the end of 2018, and in the same period the net international reserves increased by 9.8%. The growth of international reserves during 2019 was largely influenced by the purchase of foreign exchanges from banks to prevent appreciation pressures on kuna. So the CNB continued to mean now long yearly at that time policy to prevent appreciation pressures on the kuna. Although, as I always say, the objectives of liquidity and security are primarily managed in international reserves, we also achieved a positive return to the portfolio of international reserves during 2019. I am particularly stressing this because in 2019, half of the euro area's national securities amounted to a negative contribution. The overall European portfolio reached a return rate of 0.07% in 2019 while the return rate for the total dollar portfolio was 2.1%. How did the banks in 2019 operate? In 2019 growth and assets and profitability of banks were recorded and continued to improve the quality of credit risk exposure and high capitalisation and liquidity of the system and further ensure a secure and stable business of banks. The increase in total assets by 4.2% had a major impact on household credit activity and on the increase of investment in central government bonds. The highest profit from business in 2019 has been recorded in the last decade and has increased most, meaning from a major financial crisis, and has increased the most due to higher non-income and lower value reduction costs. What does that mean? This means that the bank part, the loans previously booked, fired the reservations and then those reservations turned into profits, and despite the large increase in the cost of the reservation for a multiple increase in the number of court disputes against banks, the return on assets and the return on capital increased to 1.6% and 9.9% respectively. So it's still one-digit, but it means the first time in 10 years. that the bank's assets came close to 10%. The credit risk exposure quality continued to improve and at the end of 2019 the share of non-income loans was 5.5%. Despite the increased exposure to the risks of the total capital rate, it was 23.2%, which makes the Croatian banking system very stable and allows it to pass through this crisis caused by the coronary virus as very stable in the end line this year. Profitability of housing savings was improved even though it was significantly lower than bank profitability, the good quality of exposure was maintained, and the high capitalisation of this system. However, the property of the housing savings system continues to be reduced, in 2019 by 3.4% due to the termination of the business of one residential savings facility, and it now accounts for only 1.2% of the total assets of all credit institutions. This part of the exposure would be concluded with some information on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the euro area. On 4 July last year, Croatia sent a letter of intention to join the European Course Mechanism, and the Eurogroup is... this intention of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in early August 2019. The European Central Bank announced a comprehensive evaluation of 5 Croatian banks. The positive results of this assessment were the conditions for entry into the so-called so-called entry. Close cooperation with the European Central Bank. In the meantime, within 12 months. Despite all the types of congestion caused by the coronary virus pandemic, Croatia has entered the European Course Mechanism and close cooperation with the European Central Bank, and thus set the way towards the introduction of the euro into clear frameworks set by the convergence criteria that I repeat, nominal, quantitative criteria and practically political decisions about it no longer exist. The euro will be introduced as soon as these nominal convergence criteria are met. What I think is a great success is that we have succeeded in the conditions when the virtually complete administration of Europe was occupied by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and I can tell you that in the spring of this year everyone said that the goal of entering the course mechanism in the 7th month. We can practically forget because everyone deals with the coronary virus, but we still insist on that goal, we did it in the 7th month. as planned in spite of all this, enter the course mechanism, each and every slightest delay of it by, say, the 9th or the 10th months. This year would represent at least one year of Croatia's delay in entering the euro area and all costs associated with it. At the end of this address let me tell you something then and about what I started talking about, and that's what happened after the end of last year, which is a very serious crisis caused by the pandemic. So it's May 3rd. As you know, there has been a growing uncertainty about what is going to happen with the economy, due to the occurrence of coronaryvirus, there has been great anxiety in all markets, there has been in Croatia that people have started withdrawing money from the funds in which they were invested, causing a crisis in the domestic securities market, threatened with a very strong drop in the price of Croatian bonds and the growth of the interest rate at which we are in debt and could ultimately threaten to withdraw deposits from banks, since investments in funds have largely been made at the bank's counters and the inability to draw money, in this situation it could also easily lead to a heated trust in the banking system and the security of deposits in the banking system as we know it is usually the way of the financial crisis. At the same time as usually happens, in Croatia when there is a major crisis and great uncertainty, the substitution of kuna deposits for European, other words and population and businesses and financial institutions and speculators primarily began to de facto attack on the kuna or began to replace Kunska for European funds, which is the huge vulnerability that our economy is exposed to and which we will be able to avoid only when we enter the euro zone, at that point the CNB was ahead of a very difficult choice I must say because on the one hand we never wanted to prevent the crisis on the domestic bond market which has already practically started and from day to day the anxiety was growing, we could do this by intervention on that market, by buying state securities that we have never done before and what small open economies do not even work, on the other side of the currency, on the corner. By doing one thing, we're making things worse for ourselves. So by saving the Croatian state bond market, we create additional kunas that turn into foreign exchanges and reduce our international reserves. We're practically six weeks away. international reserves are down by 2.8 billion euros. In addition to what I said in the second half of 2019, what I have been saying here in the Parliament for years, just when this crisis comes, you can see why the great international reserves are good. So until the crisis comes, you wonder why we have so many reserves, whether something can be done with them or not, they serve exactly like this because if you don't have them, then you can't prevent the attack on the currency, the potential depreciation of the domestic currency and the decomposition of the domestic securities market, which would lead to an increase in interest rates and on the other hand to increase the debt that leads you directly to the debt crisis and in the debt crisis of all sectors in Croatia and the state and the population and businesses. We, on the one hand, intervened in the market by buying state securities, thus calming the situation to the value of funds so-called. ... which is constantly being published is stabilised and the demand to withdraw money from funds ceases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we intervened on the foreign exchange market from international reserves and what was crucial, probably in the 4th month. We have also succeeded because we have good relations with the European Central Bank and have agreed on the way into the euro area so-called. The swap arrangement with the European Central Bank was the first time in history that the European Central Bank had provided a swap arrangement for a country not in the euro zone or exchange rate mechanism. By publishing it and publishing it in a way that the markets could understand that these 2 billion euros, which is a swap line, to explain, is a line that allows us to give the European Central Bank kuna and they give us euros in contrast, which means that this is a powerful increase in firepower for us, so to say monetary policies, because we kunas can print as much as we need but we can't euro, in exchange we are strengthening this firepower monetary policy, the moment the speculators saw it, the speculation against the kuna stopped, right, and then it allowed us to further improve the funding conditions on the domestic market...... by maintaining the stability of the domestic bond market and allowing practically the Ministry of Finance to complete funding in 2020 to 6 months. and at the rates that were no more than those at which the earlier rate was financed regardless of the crisis, eventually the Ministry of Finance issued when the market calmed down, and the bond we fully bought abroad, at the moment the international reserves of the CNB were only slightly lower than at the end of 2019, the second half of 2019, and if we consider that we have swap with the European Central Bank which is essentially not limited, our ability to maintain the stability of the exchange rate and the overall financial market is, I would say, even greater than it was at the end of 2019, so I have no doubt that we will manage to maintain this entire period of entry into the euro area. This is what I would like to conclude, and I would just like to, as it is a new meeting of the CNB, to announce that we will send invitations to the CNB and to discuss any kind of issues you want to discuss whenever you want, means our door is open except for this presentation and any other kind of presentation, the debate you want to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9507	Okay, time's up. We have a few replicas, please stay here. Please remain by the pay phone, we have several replicas, and you will respond to the replicas. ... Stay by the pay phone, we've got replicas, so you'll respond to the replicas immediately. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] First replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. [[Intruder Vujčić: Yeah, good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9508	Thank you very much. Governor, can you tell, you mentioned GDP, last year 6% of GDP was foreign to our people who were paying in Croatia, how much forecasts in 2020 or how much in half a year, that means we always had the wrong direction, that we moved our people out and that the largest part of the EU was from people evicted. And my second very important question, the banks are liquid, you said, in the Republic of Croatia, the citizens lose their jobs, the businessmen have no business in the crown crisis, according to you, should a decision have been made in the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government and, with your blessing, a moratorium on loans and interest for a year so that the population doesn't suck up all the money that doesn't work and the economy? So a moratorium on interest and loans for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9509	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9510	As far as our annual income flow and projection data for 2020 are concerned, what is interesting will not change in 2020 compared to 2019, which means that people who work abroad have not lost their jobs in order to be unable to send them to Croatia, which is the same good part of the support for income that the countries are in, primarily Germany, in which the most of our workers have achieved within their fiscal programmes or support programmes. As far as moratorium is concerned, what the CNB did, we made it possible for a moratorium from practically a year or more, in a way that we said that banks could classify their clients practically until the 6th month. Next year as A clients The banks gave some 3-year-old moratorium, some 6-year-olds, some over a year-olds, what they used to do for tourism. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] One year into the future... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9511	Timeout Next replica, we've got more, we've got a few more replicas. [[Intruder Vujčić: Yes, thank you.]] The next replica, the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9512	Good afternoon. Here is a very specific question, so what is the employment rate in Croatia compared to the employment rate in the EU? Namely, why do I ask you that? It seems to me that the minimum correctness of such a report would be to do a comparative analysis, not only to give us data as you have here, that in mid-year 2019, there was an increase in employment which sounds very nice, but to give us some kind of partnership where we are at the employment rate compared to the EU. If we did, and this report doesn't seem to have a minimum meaning for neither comparative analysis nor interpretation of this data, then we would see that we are very low in employment rates in Europe, that employment has increased so that 1/3 of new employees come from third countries and that people have moved out of Croatia, that I'm not talking about other data in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9513	You have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9514	I agree with that, these reports are what they are, they're not meant to be some comparative analysis, I've talked about this problem many times. So for years, I stress that one of the biggest structural problems of the Croatian economy is a very low rate of participation in the labour market and a very low employment rate. We are one and another indicator among the worst three in the EU. I can send you 5 of my presentations that I was at least talking about this particular labour market problem with us and the need to raise the employment rate. Now the reason why the employment rate is low and extends into the past, we have, as you know, a very high number of early retired people, the average rate means the year of our pensioners is also the second lowest in Europe and this leads to very few people who are in labor and when we are doing projections of the labour contingent, they look very, very bad for Croatia. The only way to basically get her up is by importing people, so the workers that we've been working on since last year we've been practically the last 2 years we've been in trouble where...... employers couldn't find workers anymore in Croatia and that's why the imports of labour started. It's a problem that's important and we can talk a lot about, I talked about last year or last year, I think in Opatija about consulting economists on which the way technology will solve these problems but let's say it's one topic for your visit to the CNB, it's a really important topic. [[Stain Sanader: Timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9515	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9516	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, Mr. Governor. In section 12 where the report speaks of banks, it does not really tell us how much the credit quality indicator rate, the MPL for non-intentional cash loans, so it would simply ask you to tell us how much that rate was in 2019 and how much do you expect it to be in 2020 according to your projections in view of the COVID crisis? The second question I have here, in Section 8, in capital flows, is that the increase in liabilities is the most related to the increase in retained profits, so I'm just curious if there's any information, do you have any information on how much the banks paid for the profits to their queens during 2019, that we have that information as well. And third, just because I'm interested in it, from a strategic position, since it's the ECB's policy, are you going to buy corporate bonds in the CNB and you're going to buy out corporate bonds like the ECB does? There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9517	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9518	Thank you very much. So the first question was to, just once again, to...? ... The MPLs. [[- Intruder Troscott, you don't understand.]] MPL's cash credits, 6.7% are, so at this point they are the fastest growing segment of bad claims as we have announced in the end line that it could happen already in 2018 and that in February 2019 we made the decision that slows down the growth of cash loans, however they are still at a relatively acceptable level, 6.7% is not something that could significantly jeopardise the capital adequacy of banks. As for the second question, now the second question was...? ... Payments, we banned dividend payments from banks in the third month. already, so we said that dividends could not be paid for 2019, that decision would now be revised at the level since we entered the banking union, the European Systemic Risk Board in 12 months. will bring further recommendation to banks [[- Intruder Troscott, you don't understand.]] which can go towards further banning in one year pay dividends or allow for a certain percentage of payment of those dividends, the third option is to do so [[Santer Invader: Time.]] on... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9519	Time's up. You need to watch your time upstairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9520	Third, short, can't it just? ... No, we're not. [[- Intruder Troscott, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9521	Next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor, two questions related to your opening speech. You were talking about a speculative attack on the kuna and the stabilisation of government bonds, and there I can publicly praise you, you and the CNB where you really did a very good job because both today and the prices and the capital and the course have stabilized so that in this context praise, so I'm interested in how much the CNB currently has the State Bonds of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, how much there is and how much further you have the capacity to even get the perception of the opportunities of the CNB. And the second thing, how much, we keep mentioning the importance of the course, defending the course, etc., what total liabilities are in loans, bonds, etc. at the level of Croatia and what would a 10% depreciation mean? Here are purely concrete questions from practice, let's see how important it is to defend the kuna and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9523	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9524	Thank you. So in your report, you say that commercial banks have never had a higher profit, and at the same time in this mid-year, in 2019, you write that it slowed down to companies or economies and that it accelerated. I have improved household placement precisely for housing loans due to these subsidies coming from the state and at the same time it seems to me that I did not see it in the report, we have a 9% growth in real estate in that year, which is more than a European average, so I'm curious to see how you interpret that banks were giving households of these subsidized housing loans, not the economy and on the other hand, do these subsidies affect the price of real estate because they are seasonal and that we see their impact on the financial sector and not just on the real estate market?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9525	Yeah, trends are what you said, so there was a slowdown in the second half of growth... businesses, population growth, what we see, it is very clear that every time APN goes, loans grow to the population and lead to a rise in real estate prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means that part of it, meaning APN goes de facto to rise real estate prices and for that reason, and that is one reason why we had above average growth in real estate prices in Croatia in 2019 because each time, it means a very clear correlation between the APN cycles with the real estate prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9526	The last replica, the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9527	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Governor, well, here's what I'm going to do. So, we are witnessing what the crown crisis has done to both the state budget and the fiscus and what it meant to stabilise public finances, but...... it is very important to reiterate exactly what you have made possible through the creation of additional liquidity in agreement with fiscal, so monetary policy has made it very much that in this way the state budget has financed practically throughout this year very high quality and thus stabilised business as businesses of all these subsidies, citizenship, etc. Here, that's significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9528	Yes, and in the end we returned the level of international reserves by buying out the last editions of bonds that were on the international market, it was a deal some, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9529	Thank you. No more replicas, you can go to your place. Would the representatives of the committee's rapporteur like to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, thank you. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to come to the debate came to the attention of the Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Troscott, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9530	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. A little bit of Mr. Governor screwed me over because I didn't expect him to touch any issues from 2020, but then we'll be in line. What Mr. Governor and the Most Club disagrees is that this is a moment where we should enter the euro zone and here are not only sentimental evidence that should be substantiated here on the table but we wanted to realistically bring about a public debate for the reason that deura loss of monetary sovereignty can lead to serious condensities for the Croatian economy and when we say so, we are not only talking about a period of a few years but we should look at the long term 10 to 15 years. No wonder, for example, EU countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Sweden, do not enter the euro area at this time. I purposely mentioned Sweden, pardon, Poland and the Czech Republic and, on the other hand, Hungary, which are well guided by smart policy, see convergence in terms of labour productivity, generally cost of production, and finally asymmetry of the economy for reasons why, if you have on one side of the production economy such as Germany and the European, or the rest of the euro zone, the most developed countries or, say, service economies in cases of shocks such as the coronary, therefore monetary policy in these asymmetric shocks, European central banks can be determal or destructive to Croatia, and we see the potential dangers that we would like to pose here. Why don't I agree with Mr. Governor yet? When you go to the CNB site, then you will find one of the most important documents and this is the Strategy for entering the euro area, however, there are data from 2016, I think graphs that show certain trends in plasma which are actually not good for the reasons that are determined, the way the market has reacted from 2015 to today, especially on the market of plasma to household, so it is seen according to structure, the currency structure so that they are growing fiat, so trust is created in Croatian kuna given the negative consequences that were given the Swiss franc, what the question is raised and these trends are already seen slowly and in a company where loans are left in currency and credits are taken over in Croatian kuna. It is asked why the CNB for the last 30 years and, in particular, if these trends of the euro area movement continue, it does not introduce, for example, one policy called differentiated reserve rate, which will otherwise treat mandatory reserves such as the euro and kuna, and on the other hand, would allow commercial banks, so that armed funds, or sources of bank financing, can therefore make it possible for the population more likely to arm funds in Croatian kunas rather than in euro. So the loss of deura because de facto we have already lost monetary sovereignty, so deura can easily lead us to the situation of a Greek country where a fiscal strictness that has been applied to Greece has been regularly warned. Stigitz may be the only economic measure and policy possible to be the layoff of workers. So it really needs to be put into public debate and it's not really a subject that can just go through without putting it out like this. About, now, we have two topics, I'm going to go to each other. I changed it a little bit, Mr. Governor screwed me up a little bit. I'm glad that you invited to the open door of the CNB because I would like to have it here in the Croatian Parliament and, in general, in front of Croatian citizens, we touch a rather wrinkling topic that was still in the 3rd month. In 2020, it's about Zagreb Bank. Therefore, Directive 2013/36 of the EU requires the competent authority to publish certain information in order for the internal banking market to function more effectively and so that the Union and since we are increasingly taking over these EU legislations, therefore an adequate level of transparency is allowed. This is especially the case for macroprudential and supervisory and audit policies, where insinuations were therefore given, therefore, about Zagreb banks and money laundering and terrorist financing where even certain types of money laundering were mentioned and instructions were even given to Italian typeology. So, we don't have that information, and that's what I'd like to really discuss, and that if it really did happen, if there was money laundering in the largest bank in the Republic of Croatia, then we have a serious problem with the banking and financial system......... because we are generally familiar with the thing and all of us that the way internal control in Croatia works, or in Zagreb bank, that's actually doing a copy-pass in other banks because the internal control system is the best in terms of many auditors of the Zagreb Bank and in the banking system. And now if certain types of money laundering are potentially practiced on the Croatian banking system, then we have a big problem and it is of Croatian interest to the Croatian people for the reason that we will be evaluated other than the Maastricht criteria, so one of the pillars of the criteria for the evaluation of entry into the euro area will be that important pillar of the financial system and that is the supervisory state of security of that money. So we're not just talking about the potential responsibility of the CNB and I think as a legislative body we have the right to know what happened in the 3rd month. In 2020, that administration overnight so to cancel and give the director... overnight to quit without anyone reviewing it and without getting the right and relevant information to know that perhaps the biggest fraud of the financial system is happening in front of our noses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense, if that happens, so this report we've been reading here, it's good, there's nothing here, the CNB reacted in time for non-intentional cash loans with its recommendation in the 3rd month. In 2019, I think it was, at the end of the third month. In 2019, where certain effects of this recommendation are seen in 6 and 7 months. This year 2020, given that these non-intentional cash loans have actually fallen. However, if we have 6% to 7% in 2019, 6.7% in 2019, so not returning these bad loans, then the question is how long it will be in 2020 and 2021, and there is the CNB and the governor, you responded here in time, and here we, as the Mosta Club, congratulate you, there is no problem. Is it positive that you're in the 3rd month? In 2020, you reduced the reserve rate from 12% to 9%, which is positive because you released additional liquid funds for the Croatian economy and you showed solidarity at times when Croatia needed it most, it is positive. We can discuss the rates or differentiated rates of compulsory reserve in terms of therefore more active monetary policy in terms of regulation and the setting of sources of funding which are often directed as criteria, which is why it was not possible to therefore work on the Croatian market to be in Croatian kunas, but in fact, it could have been posted with monetary policy the way we are here on the table and that the market could accept it and that it was not direct intervention through the Ministry of Finance where certain countries in our environment leading to sovereignism, and here we talked about modern sovereignism, even taxed interest on savings in currency. For example, that's what Serbia does. We disagree with that because there is therefore a market-based way of thinking with which we at the Mosta Club disagree, but we would definitely like to support that, so this descent rate in the 3rd month. Mandatory reserves for liquidity, that's great, but if we have potential money laundering in front of our noses, which we don't know anything about as a legislative body, we, as a club Mosta, unfortunately can't participate in, and we would like to take this open door to which you call us, just touched that potentially painful topic, so if it's time to solve it today, to solve it together for the reasons that, above all, the most important interest of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9531	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9532	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed governor of the CNB with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. There's a very nicely shaped report before us, so the eye is very comfortable, a fracture made according to all the rules of the profession, a golden cut is there, visually, wonderful. All in all, you should commend both the CNB and the person or the team who made this such a pleasant report. Why am I saying this? How much does it make sense to discuss the report on the financial situation, the degree of achievement of stability and the price of implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2019 in mid-October 2020? It doesn't make much sense because we all know that macroeconomic opportunities differ last year and this year have absolutely no similarities. Speaking now was one way or another last year, it won't change and in no way affect the situation since this year, the same thing to praise the management of public finances in previous years won't get us out of a very dangerous deficit, 5% of GDP. We saw that our public debt is at 330 billion kuna, or 85.3% of GDP. I would therefore like to commend Governor Vujčić for briefly looking back at the situation this 2020 and also commending the CNB's reaction in the spring when the coronary crisis occurred and the CNB has indeed been involved and very spotlessly and effectively involved in maintaining the liquidity of our entire... system and I hope that this practice will continue. What our employment was last year, we all know, was on one satisfactory level. However, labour shortages have been recorded, especially in certain activities, such as construction and tourism. What remains as a question, of course, is why we are not in those years when macroeconomic conditions have been extremely favourable, we have implemented reforms, and I am mostly thinking about reforming a public administration that will not bypass us. Our country is too expensive and warns entrepreneurs and the EU Commission in all their reports. So, we're going to have to do this, it would be better if we'd done it in the past few years, and not now in these times of crisis. Also, since the start of the epidemic, here, as Governor Vujčić said on the day of the big plans, the number of unemployed has increased by 50,000, so here I will once again take the opportunity to point out that we are completely inadmissible to the abolition of quotas for foreign workers and what is trying to do, means through the proposal of the Foreigners Act to implement. We believe that demographic problems exist in Croatia, but we cannot close our eyes before them, measures exist, demographics have been talking about it for years, but we should finally start working on it. So we're currently paying the amount of interest which is 6 times the amount for the child's allowance, and as long as that's the case, there's no forward. Therefore, once again I will stress that our view that each child should be entitled to a child's allowance regardless of the property price, it must not be a social category. They mentioned a little bit, a colleague of Troscott mentioned non-intentional cash loans and that's one of the items that could have a lot of negative implications. It also means in the years to come because the report also lists an increase in non-intentional loans. According to the report, the credit activity of the banks was mainly targeted at households, and the biggest impact would be on the further increase in cash non-intentional loans, so they reached this year-on-year growth of a fifth of the total loans of the banks, which is 41% of the total loans to households, which is very significant and points out once again that 50% of our citizens do not have the funds for unforeseen expenses, and here we are at the top in the EU according to that indicator, and these data on non-intentional cash loans confirm that. The CNB also recognised this as a potential problem and issued certain recommendations to credit institutions in order to apply stricter conditions for long-term cash non-intentional lending to citizens. Why do banks force these potentially problematic loans? We all see that we are witnessing a period of historically low interest rates, and so the interest incomes of banks have been dropping for 7 years, and in 2019 they stopped this decline, and there has been a growth precisely based on the growth of interest incomes from these cash non-intentional loans. Also, banks increased revenue, net revenue from fees and commissions by 9.7%. Also, due to the growth of these incomes, again from households. So, the fact is that no one asks our entrepreneurs or citizens and no one protects them when banks willingly raise the prices of their services, fees and commissions. This should concern us because since the moratorium was introduced to the performance, 170 thousand new proposals have arrived for the performance mainly related to directors, and this is a huge problem for our citizens, which we should not close our eyes to, but we should do something to protect them. What I can finally say, this is that the report is done well, professionally, quality, what I should certainly say as some recommendation, is that it would be good at this moment to discuss the report for the first 6 months of this, 2020. It doesn't have to be this nicely shaped, it can be Times New Roman, 12, 1.5 prods on plain paper, the content is important, although this form is really for every praise. So here, I hope that there will still be some more flexible and up-to-date reports in HS, not for the past year or even for the previous year, I am not referring to you, but to some other reports because today we are discussing the financial situation of last year will not change and improve the situation in which we are today, which is extremely demanding and puts many challenges ahead of us. The Homeland Movement Club will support this report and here, I hope we get a report soon for the first 6 months of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9533	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Boris Lalovec, on behalf of the club... /incomprehensible/... excuse me. I don't see Zekanovic. Dear representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, he is gone. He's losing his right. Next is a debate by distinguished representative Boris Lalovec on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected to the governor and his associate. I agree with my predecessor, however, it has nothing to do with the CNB, it has to do with the professional services of the Parliament, and therefore we ask that in the future when these reports come, we have, even before he was a colleague of Shuker, discussed them on the board and with counterpart Peric, on the Committee on Finance and Budget, that as soon as these reports come from the CNB, when they issue them in the 6th month. Let's discuss them right away, not now for another six months. After that, it turns out that what the governor is talking about here, in fact, what we're talking about here today, we're a little bit funny when we're Croatian citizens now because we're talking about some of the times that are at this time of crisis, we simply can't talk about 2019 at all, and any of the figures that we're talking about today in these new conditions are very funny and that's why we're supporting the governor and I think it's very good that the governor looked back on 2020, and I also commended him and the institution because I think that as an institution we've responded very well to the COVID crisis, okay, they've reacted very much to the European central banks, and that's why we're saying that the cooperation with the European Central Bank is actually showing certain progress and results, because it's not easy to stabilize even the attacks on the kuna and the national bonds that it's so easy to buy 20 billion bonds with the same amount. How sensitive we are to the course is a very important information that the governor here has said 500 billion kuna commitments that are denominated in euro and denominated in euro. This shows how sensitive we are as a society to any depreciation pressures on the euro and that this percentage is 10% in someone or 5 or 10%, very devastating for Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs and ultimately for the Croatian state. Because what is currently happening on the European market and what is actually the CNB through this surplus of liquidity creation on the market that is moving from somewhere in this report this year is 34 billion, probably now and more than 40 billion kuna, has assured that it is happening that the state can borrow cheaper or that it can also provide certain support and support to citizens because what is happening for the first time now, that the Ministry of Finance is issuing European vault records at a negative interest rate, means what happens? If banks give money to the state, they still pay them to keep that money. So in the case of European vault records now happens that the bank gives you money, yet the bank gives you ultimately because they are negative interest rates. On the other hand, when we talk about kuna vaults, so 0.06% are now, and the five-year bond and the 15-year bond is somewhere around 1.2%. What's actually, what I would be saying here, and that's going to happen to us in the future, so we already have to think about what our potential problem is going to be in the future. The governor was talking about 1.4% inflation. Our bond yields, or when here on 15-year bond yield is 1.2%. We will have serious problems with the second pension column if it happens, continue this trend of low interest rates or low incomes because let's not forget that we have 100 billion kuna in the second pension column, 100 billion in bonds, and they still generate certain contributions for our pensions that have begun to pay off or start paying off in the coming years, so for our pensions we will get from the first pillar, from the second pillar. If it starts to happen in the long run that inflation is greater than the value of the bond, in other words, pension funds in the second pillar will not be made, so it will not earn for a value, the value of money in the course of the year, and that is a long-term serious problem that we need here already at low interest rates, at such low interest rates, but start to find some solutions, because in the long run, we are not talking about a short-term problem, but in the long term, let the period from 5 to 10 years, when all these bonds are brought to 0.5 to 1%, it will be when pensions are paid in the second pension column, we will have to re-legate here, and see how to react, is that, is it will be a long-term problem. On the other hand, what the governor actually said about non-intentional loans and we're here and I publicly commended him for stopping that form of credit, he said that somewhere around 6.7% of the non-refundable loans. If you take that as about 53 billion, most of the credit is actually given to citizens to solve the housing issue, the other part is these cash non-intentional loans that are somewhere around $53 billion, what is happening here and that is again that the government is going to have to deal with this issue because that means that it's already out of these 53 billion, 4 billion kunas irrevocable. 4 billion kuna of these 53, 54 billion kunas. What else does that mean to you? Which means that banks will most likely write off these loans or resell them on a further debt market and today we are constantly talking about the debt market to those agencies. And it says here in the 2019 report that banks sold claims worth 4.2 billion kuna. But let's not forget those claims have been since the previous crisis. That these were still claims from 2008, when it was still the banking crisis. And what comes before us today, or what will come before the government, which will come before the government, and we need to seriously talk about whether the debt market that is currently RH is around 40 billion kuna, which is to be regulated, someone has to monitor it because it is already over 10% of GDP,... and let's not forget that already in... means this year 4 billion will be sold already of these non-refundable ones in the future, so we have to seriously worry about this debt market in these amounts, shall we not forget that this crown crisis is going to cause new non-refundable claims to be sold on the market. And that's not a question for the CNB, it's a question for the government because that burden will come to the government and we here as legislators will have to see how we will deal with it in the future because there will be greater pressure from citizens. You can see that the executions are about to begin, and no debts have come yet... since this crisis, and that's where the government will have to find out who's going to control it. Is that tax change that Minister Maric made in 2016 and told the banks I'll give you one time to make it, so that it's a tax-recognized cost didn't turn out well. So, unfortunately, we can't influence banks with tax incentives to write that down because these are claims that they're going to resell further. And look at the impact of 2016 when there was an amendment to the Tax on Profits Act where the Government gave incentives to banks, she told them we'll give you a tax relief don't resell it any further. Look at the impact. So we have a very narrow space, even from the tax element that this part is happening. However, what will happen only from these consumers can we see that this will accumulate in the future. It is one problem that will certainly not be easy to manage in the future whatever government comes and we will have to have a consensus in the Parliament, it will be a debt market in the Republic of Croatia not a financial debt. Unfortunately, and in this crown crisis will grow and that is what is a very serious problem where we must find here as legislator the answer also to these questions. And what I said about pension issues in the second pillar and debt market issues. Also related to the importance of the stability of the banking sector is here what the governor said about bank assets in Croatia 426 billion kuna, GDP in Croatian 360 billion kuna. You see how important it is to have stability and what the governor said and the appropriateness of capital is at the EU level. We are very sensitive to the euro and as far as the governor is concerned, which has enabled certain liquidity, very important things are because they are bigger than Croatian GDP. Let's not even imagine what would happen if there was a bad scenario and that's why we think these measures that you've brought are good and can be in some final presentation, so the SDP club will support this half-yearly information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9535	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9536	Your Honor, Vice President, honoring the governor and his associate. So here is the second half of 2019, and we mentioned it through the Committee on Finance last year, unfortunately because of these changes or events that were, or elections, then all of this was moved together, even though it is really trying in the coming periods to make these half-yearly information as current as possible and not going through such a long period. In 2019, it was much better and more optimistic than it was in 2020, so as we know real GDP in 2019 was about 2.9% in the first term, and in the second half it was lower than 2.7%. What has affected these real economic activities? Well, the biggest impact was the increase in total exports, both goods and services. The growth in imports of goods and services was significantly slowed so the net foreign demand for real GDP growth in the second half was positive. Domestic demand, and what was important in the components itself, was the important personal consumption that has been important for several years and with changes taking place in fiscal terms within the framework of fiscal policy and contributes to this by increasing and incomeing through various measures of stimulating and increasing personal deduction. We also had increased investment activity at the annual level, which was also increased in the first six months, and the country's consumption was also growing in similar dynamics. The labour market has already touched, however, according to the records, the unemployment rate was significantly lower compared to the previous years and it was 7.4% of the total workforce. Gross earnings increased by 3.8% in the second term, and purchasing power also increased by 2.9%. Inflation increased in the second term to 1.4% and it's primarily due to rising meat and oil prices, we know what happened to oil in those past periods when it, when the price was significantly lower, and then stabilized somewhere to 66 dollars. What the governor himself said, we have a surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments and it has grown significantly due to the growth of the export of services. The CNB accordingly continued to implement expansion monetary policy and thus maintained and maintained the nominal exchange rate according to the EUR, which has made life easier for both citizens and businesses much easier for all. What has to be said is that in terms of funding and interest rates both for banks and for citizenship, interest rates are at the lowest level we remember in, I don't know, in the last decade or perhaps longer. Therefore, it is very important to note the impact that we, as part of the overall European market, are also really involved in raising ratings in the last three years. indeed, as a state, we have achieved great, great quality. What needs to be said is that, in the second half, the general government budget is higher by 2.7 billion kuna and compared to 2018, it is an increase of 7.3%. When we talk about GDP then here last year he is, therefore the public debt relative to GDP was about 73.2% and he is one percent lower than June of the same year. International reserves were higher in 2019 by 6.4 and 9.8% respectively. The growth of reserves was also affected by the purchase of banks' foreign exchanges to prevent appreciation pressures. When we talk about banks then here's the bank and what the CNB controlled was that the total assets of the banks were increased by 4.2% and the biggest impact had just had credit activity towards households and here mentioned several times cash non-intentional loans that were held in some real frames. What is still to be mentioned is that in relation to this year or when we look at the situation in 2020, we must also say what I also mentioned in the replica, how important the activity is exactly and how the impact and the correct reaction of monetary policy, where, in this critical period or this crisis, which is actually specific, how it has been able to spark additional liquidity and how in this way, the Croatian state and the budget have stabilised business by the end of this year, with the hope that yet everything that is happening now will not take place too long, because then it is certainly a major problem in the long term how this economic crisis survives, this inactivity, and I hope that in this way, however we have survived in this way, that the activities will continue to be of both the economy and all of them acquired rights that have citizens in our country. And we see that it's actually the Ministry of Finance and the government that they've responded very well at the right time, so I can say here that the HDZ Club is going to support this report anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9537	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc MP Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9538	Here's a good day for everyone, thanks to the governor of the CNB for this presentation, this half-yearly information from the CNB for the second half of 2019. As many have already said, it is crucial that the information of the CNB refers to the period before the epidemic and before the crown of the crisis because otherwise the situation has changed drastically after, and I would have little use of the data from this information to point to, two things, two problems. One is the entirely inadequate economic structure of the Croatian economic and financial sector for the challenges of the 21st century... which have shown us one of them just this year, and also the need for discussion for the new role of the CNB and all other central banks, and it and new monetary policies, given the challenges ahead. So, first of all, only information or report says the biggest contribution to economic indicators refers to personal consumption, which looks at the continuation of favourable labour market movements, the growth of household lending and the record high level of consumer optimism. So, it sounds a little cynical when we know just as much as how many people have moved out of Croatia and found work in other EU member states and when we actually know when we're talking about favourable labour market trends, and on the other hand, when we know how many signs from abroad that are done means those people who have left Croatia who are paying off their credits in Croatia that make up as much as 7% of GDP, which makes Croatia at the top among all EU member states. And as for the loans or the growth of lending to the public, I'm going to say the same thing, and we've already said something about these housing loans, but I'm going to say something later. Furthermore, we see the same shortfall in the trade with abroad that it deepened precisely in this half-year and the export of goods slowed heavily in the last quarter. So that means with the reduced export competitiveness of the goods we welcomed in 2020. On the other hand, let's say something about this problematic structure of the economy, we have, for example, information on the growth of gross added value at the annual level of 2.6%, with all its components growing apart from the processing industry. The biggest growth to contribute VAT has provided activities in the area of trade, transport and tourism. Just three sectors that were the most vulnerable sent to the crown crisis this year. And that's where we see our biggest economic problem. Furthermore, this is also seen when we talk about the structure of the increase in employees, so the information says, looking at the activities of the number of employees was broadly spread from the trend so far, however, the trend of the number of employees in the industry that only at the end of the year contributed to the growth of total employment after 2 consecutive three-month reductions in the number of employees. I repeat, the ones where we don't produce we welcome or where we produce a little we welcome then a crisis where we couldn't introduce some key things because everyone then needed them like disinfectants, such as food, such as medical equipment, etc. Furthermore, at the same time we can never see a higher profit of commercial banks, so the information says, profit from business in 2019 is the largest ever recorded. However, such commercial banks have slowed their annual growth as I said to non-financial firms in 2019. So the plasma and the economy have slowed down from commercial banks due to several single effects while population growth has accelerated, which has contributed to the acceleration of housing credit growth supported by the continued implementation of the government's programme to subsidise these loans. I thank the governor who is very clear what is constantly challenging this government has said what we all know because we see what is the correlation that APN's subsidy programme is especially because it is so seasonal because it has happened 1 times a year before, now it happens 2 times a year, directly affects the rise in real estate prices that is higher than the EU average, which was even 9% last year. So, from the state budget, we subsidize housing loans that then go to profits from commercial banks, we raise the price of real estate to people we help buy the same real estate and then also for, for, our money, the public money ends either in banks in profits of banks or in profits of real estate sellers, and at the same time, prices are breathed not only of real estate but also of rent property because we have a tax system so that 10 times less taxes for renting apartments to tourists than for city residents long term rent. So 10 times on average is less tax for short-term rent compared to long-term rent for city residents. This is our housing policy, and this is clearly seen from the information provided by the CNB, and it is also seen from the governor's statement that this subsidisation programme directly affects the rise in real estate prices and in fact to the people we help do the bear service, and we are not doing what other EU Member States should do, that is to build public apartments for rent and thus increase the housing fund, the public housing fund. I will remind Croatia has about 1% or 2% of the EU average is 14%, Vienna has 60% of the housing fund in public non-profit rentals and thus affects the cost of renting apartments. On the other hand, it is seen, never larger housing loans, the highest annual rate of growth of housing loans since 2010. So the highest annual rate of housing growth since 2010, and that's what we subsidize from the budget. On the other hand, we also see what is, now I'm going a little bit in the role of the CNB, basic inflation slightly accelerated from 1.1% in June to 1.2% in December and what we know is the key role of the CNB, which is why I would like to reopen the debate about it, and it says fine on the CNB website, the CNB central bank of the Republic of Croatia and its main goal is to maintain price stability, so this information is called. However, you will notice that this year 2020 we have at least 3 trends in which the CNB participates in some way. First review of the independence of central banks, the second longer period of nearly zero interest rates and the third preparedness for fiscal intervention. We heard the governor who said that the CNB bought state bonds, that he had never done it, not only had he never done it but it was Croatia, we also heard from the governors that it was doing most of all of the small European countries, something that was before and I would say even unimaginable. On the other hand, we also see that both this year's inflation, and that's what it is now, that actually global trends may be going according to inflation,...... we see that the American FET, which more than 2% of the magical objective of inflation now begins to count on an average, and we may be going towards inflation which will not be a Croatian decision but obviously a global decision from possibly controlled inflation 4 to 5% to solve the breakthrough of the growing and greater borrowing of states, in order to try to address the root crisis problem that is unremembered. It's not the cyclic crisis we're used to, it's a one-time shock, and in that sense, I think we should open a debate about the role of monetary policy and central banks in general. As far as we are concerned, the governor also said that Croatia will enter the exchange mechanism, that the euro will be introduced as soon as the criteria are met and I will repeat and that is our position, we are looking for a broad public debate before entering the Eurozone, despite this, I will remind you that the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary are delaying entry into the Eurozone. We will spend several years in the waiting room anyway, and it is precisely that period that needs to be used to get away with all the advantages and disadvantages of joining the Eurozone. So one of the key levers of economically active economic policy is the control of the government deficit and debt, as we already know, because we are given master criteria, by introducing the euro we take away at least nominally, at least another lever theoretically, which is control of interest rates and exchange rates. So we're left with new crises, these cyclic crises, and they're always going to be because there's only an instrument so-called. internal devaluation, which means wage reduction and unemployment growth. We know what the arguments are, a highly euro-oriented economy mostly turned to services, but then let's solve these structural problems, and not just say ha the market will solve everything, we have no other choice but to get into the Eurozone as soon as possible and everything will be fine. So from this perspective, absolute monetary sovereignty for us is of course not possible, but some relative monetary sovereignty in the sense that monetary and exchange policies appear as an active economic policy tool to achieve some important social objectives, I think we should open a debate on this. And these goals are, for example, full employment and long-term sustainable development, and I think it's a trend everywhere that these orthodoxies now around central banks are slowly starting to question and I think it's time to do that in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9539	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9540	Thank you very much. The governor's report states that the biggest profit from fees and fees he has in Croatia is about 500-year-olds, it has not been published for many years which are fees and fees, it is money of around 4 billion kunas which are not taxed, which banks earn, and now it is the biggest profit currently, one of the biggest profits of banks, mentioned in the report, and it has legally allowed banks not to tax that fee and fees. For many years we didn't know at all, we're not talking about interest, interest is something else but this clean petty robbery of Croatian citizens we're talking about 4 billion kunas a year. Can you tell me what amount the profits are in? What is the percentage of the profit from this milking of citizens' money that the state has not taxed where it affects banks, which is the amount? What's the percentage of the bank's profit? As for the euro, you mention it without remorse. Euro, euro, euro. As an ordinary man, I wonder if experts like Mr. Stigitz with an economist formerly meant ex-main economist for the World Bank, a university professor at Columbia, New York, an expert who speaks contrary to you. I'm asking, here I am, as a man, a citizen to open up a public debate which in the long run brings what the consequences are? Why would you give me part of your sovereignty when we don't know the consequences at all, but you've imposed that theory and you're pursuing it. You don't care. So the people must know, the people of Croatia, that there is a public debate and there is one democratic procedure, and it is called a referendum... a debate that should be comprehensive to see the moment when or never. It may be necessary, but not now, it may not be necessary, and you impose your theory worse di you arrange it, and probably you are not at the club by Mr Kovacevic that agreed whether the whole monetary policy is driven away from people's eyes. It's about the report in 2019, and in 2020, but I'm telling you that monetary policy was hit well, that we know what happened about Agrokora where they were used, I even raised the criminal application you see, I liked me in the released experts here in ties, and so, where the bonds without cover were used 10 billion kunas was the concert then the biggest Agrokor without cover, so on paper plain wrote and paid people, 10 billion was a direct blow to monetary policy and not the functioning of the system that was absolutely politicised, he took advantage and that's the problem. I've filed a criminal report there for three years seems to me at the time when Agrokor was a crisis, it's a coup on monetary policy where it's convenient for someone to exchanges without a 10 billion kuna cover. The Stability Council in which you are as a representative of the Bank, i.e. It didn't do anything, nothing. So monetary policy is very important, sovereignty is important but don't take monetary policy away from the public's eyes by clubs, by offices in Europe, I don't know di. I know you have certain powers, and this is not a benign thing like the Parliament asked for, so then you stood up, all of you, when we asked for the revision to enter the CNB, but just business, let's see business. How is it possible for us to say the CNB to open a tender for waiters and chefs who love wine well and bring down fish? It's benign towards monetary policy and sovereign monetary policy. I am now saying this as a man who is not at your level, who has less knowledge, but simply listens to the world's greatest experts that the euro is not the best, to introduce the euro, that it is not good for a sovereign policy, that it is not good for every country and that they are sending a recommendation to the Croatian people, to you, to the Government, not to do it, I don't know why you push it like that. And once again, 6% of GDP, 6% of GDP, and you're saying that the biggest part of GDP is our people's evictions, I'm telling you what bad policies we had in the Republic of Croatia. Our evicted people, the most money, 6% of GDP, 20 billion kunas, pay in Croatia and it is the biggest problem and bad policies, it is a reflection of Croatia's policy towards the people. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9541	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9542	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would disagree that this is a report, it doesn't make sense because the Covid crisis happened and then we can't learn anything from this 2019 report, so we can learn a lot because this report represents a certain return to the future, right? We are going back to the past to see that those things that stood out as advantages after Covid's crisis are obvious defects, although many have warned of them before, and that is, above all, what we have already said, relying on tourism and service activities. A report showing trends, which in the crown crisis have proved to be a cornerstone of development. What the report shows is that even before the crown of the crisis, imports of food products and imports of medical and pharmaceutical products have increased. So we already have a sign here that shouldn't go in the direction. So independent, autonomous production, production that must be based on the same, multi-sectoral analyses, cross-sectoral analyses that show what activities are capable of producing higher added value. This report, however, is not good from our perspective for two reasons. The first is that we have uninterpreted data here, meaning data that, which are ideologically alone, by the fact that they do not interpret the government's moves, but simply state some information, and secondly, they are comparatively unfounded. So we don't have a comparative, I'm an example and I've cited it. So when I asked a question in the debate on the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities, then the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance answered my question why we do not have domestic multi-sector analyses, that the collection of statistical data has been standardised in order to compare these data at EU level, so why are we not applying this comparability now, and particularly on the question of how much employment has increased? So here we have a report on the fact that, in 2019, employment increased compared to 2018, but it's not stated that we have one of the lowest employment rates, so when we put it in context, things are very different. In addition, it was not stated that a third of newly employed workers from foreign countries who were granted labour permits, let's bring it to the Foreign Law where a number of liberalised quotas for imports of foreign labour force are now, and it was not said that the reduction of unemployment is the same as the result of effectively eradicating from the HZZ records, which is actually due to the trend of emigration. Such things, then, are not listed in the Report. Furthermore, what should certainly be pointed out is what the predecessors mentioned, meaning the business of banks in 2019 resulted in the largest recorded profit so far, meaning profit, we kept mentioning the amount of 4 billion kunas that banks make out of the country annually, but here we have a rise of 17.9%, 5.8 billion kuna, so the banks have profits. Therefore, if we add a net profit to non-financial entrepreneurs of over 30 billion kuna, 31 billion kuna, Croatian workers, we can say that they created more than 37 billion kunas to get entrepreneurs, only in 2019. Well, to compare with the government's moves, workers received an announcement of labour rights cuts as a thank you in 2020. These same workers, therefore, as the report shows, are increasingly raising non-intentional loans, which suggests that they are real wages, that they are stagnating so that something, in order to buy something now, we have to raise a loan. I warn that the statistical, statistical data that as many as 52% of people in Croatia cannot afford the extraordinary unplanned cost, and that most of the savings have less than 10 000 kunas on their accounts. So there are few who belong to those 2% of the richest who have over 50% of the total wealth on the banks, and this report doesn't say anything about them. Therefore, during this period we must note, the period covered by the report, the dangerous trend in the growth of non-intentional cash loans in a given period that reached a fifth of the total loans of banks, or 41% of total household loans. Then of course, it raises a question of stricter terms of credit, especially in the perspective, so when the executions start on Monday, so 240 old And 170 new errands, we can assume it'll just be stricter. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9543	Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Like they said, and my predecessors actually said.... /. ...what we noticed was actually a trend in bank business and what I said was actually, the problem will be long-term for pension funds, which will pay us pensions because interest is getting lower and lower, and then the minister can boast that the government is successful, because less interest payments are 3-4 billion kuna. It is simple because we also have access to the European, European market and what we simply do through so-called. Quantitative output, means printing of the European Central Bank's money which started there in 2015. The situation in the financial markets has changed completely that it is unimaginable that banks today are giving money to the state, yet, to pay for it. So they give money to the state and pay more for it. And it will certainly have its problems in the future, as we have said in the business of pension funds in the long term, and we see that it is all now looking at the business of banks, so the ones where they make the most, earning the most, and it is actually seen in this report that the fees have increased almost 10.9.7%. It says net income from fees and commissions has increased, and the report says that on the move in the household sector and the growth of interest incomes from cash non-intentional loans and the reduction of interest costs on the amount of deposits, right. What is observed in the trend. And we see that we are entering the EU or the European ERM 2 mechanism, and what is now shown is that we citizens are increasingly taking money in kunas. Now some kind of paradox happens to us. When, when they were supposed to be swearing in 30. Croatian economies, they were weak, now that we are entering the European, EU or European Course Mechanism in EUR 2022-'23. We have a kuna explosion that someone will need to convert again at some rate in 2022, so it's said to be 7.5, etc. So it's kind of, like, some sort of trend that's coming up right now. And what is now is the question of what will create future economic growth is that monetary policy instruments have come to their limits. The interest is at zero, the liquidity has 40 billion kuna and when you see from the macro-economic perspectives of the bank's liquidity is good, the adequateness is good, the CNB was still operating on the bond market, it reduced the yields. However, the question is what is going to generate economic growth with us in 2021, because we know that 60% of GDP generates household consumption, 60% of GDP generates household consumption, and we have household consumption, and the reports show that 60% of GDP is still so much that the building is behind the water under these conditions, and therefore it's not such an economic downturn, but even the CNB has reduced it to 8% because it's still working. It still works and it pulls this part and the fall of tourism it, it compensates him in part because the building has a very large share through various different parts of this has an impact on the Croatian economy and we see this and this part of the apartments, which unfortunately has one negative trend very high price again, a very high price, the price of apartments. We have this second part of the loan, non-intentional loans that are now entering certain problems, and the question is what will generate new economic growth in 2021. when we see that the citizens are captured and only in this part of 400,000 blocked and these new ones that come in non-intentional loans. Investments will be seen for next year, especially in tourism do we see that the largest part of the report, and it says in this report that the highest part of the credit we gave in tourism is that tourism has made more contributions than some other part of the activity, and the question is what tourism will be next year and that the short season has been cut and we have seen that this year the government has managed through its measures somehow to push through that part of tourism, but we see that it is now, now suddenly tourism we have been telling us that it will be 4-5 months, now we are happy if it is a month. Unfortunately, it's reality. And those investments in tourism will certainly depend next year on the generation of the epidemiological situation, to be stopped. So the question arises which instrument, which will actually consume these elements, the state has focused most of its consumption on EU funds and is one of the forms of economic growth. Even here it says in the report that actually the ratio of payments, the ratio of payments and payments is actually in favour of Croatia 2.6% means from the past, before it was 1.8%. So I'm sure it's right in front of us. find challenging times to generate and create stable economic growth. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9545	The next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9546	Dear Vice-President HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who watch through the screen. I'm tied to the report, so he's not controversial. So anyone who studied economics at professor's. Ivanov or other professors in monetary policy will know that we are at the age of 4. read such reports as prepared materials for our exams, and as such, it is not at all controversial. As for the confirmation of him, I'll see, I'll leave room with my colleague and we'll hear the final opinion of our governor because I'd really like to hear about today's presentation and his closing statement. However, I would like to return to the EUR topic. I didn't believe, or I didn't know Mr. Governor was going to touch that subject, so I'd like to further encourage the debate, so here you are getting additional materials to further expand it. He mentioned Professor Bulj. We don't have to talk about him much. However, he is not the only one talking about that Croatia should not take the EURo at this time for the reason that we have a commitment to take over, but the Lisbon Treaty does not stress and does not give us the obligation to take that obligation exactly on a specific date. So we're self-evaluating the moment when... We're losing monetary sovereignty. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prof. Danny Rodriguez, for example, a professor from Hadward, you have a book... The third chapter of Europe's fight, it looks at it from the political economy, so it adds an additional dimension to the EU's more political integration and sees in fact...... how much the euro doesn't make sense especially for Croatia at the moment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Professor Paul De Grauwe, a professor who teaches at the London University of Economics, teaches at the University of Leuven in Belgium, is a professor who is a serious player in monetary policy because he was also an adviser to President Barroso in the EU, so I think his opinion should be taken into account, especially in view of his arguments regarding the euro at this point. As regards the euro itself, it should be seen from the perspective of competitiveness and this Professor. Stigitz in his book "Euro" says that certain criteria were put in Greece where they had to even change the legal life of fresh milk, now watch what I'm talking about. So, they had to extend the days of fresh milk from 5 to 11 days for the reason that one Netherlands would use a troika, which you can read in the book of Stigitz in which the European Commission required the extension of fresh milk to then import GMO milk into Greece. We have a problem with Meggle, if we want to drink this Dutch milk with GMOs very well, we are going at this point with the introduction of the euro because we are in every aspect both in terms of productivity and productivity, as well as the asymmetricity of our economy with the Eurozone countries. As for Professor... Roberta Mandela is a professor with Columbia Canadian who won the Nobel Prize right on the optimal market theory, so there are certain criteria set before a particular country and market to make it currency-optimal. And I'm not going to go into the very depths of it right now, and I think we're going to get to that in later discussions. He teaches not to the University of Columbia, the University of Hong Kong, so what based on this theory of optimal currency market today's economic experts are already calculating positive correlations between the intense emigration of people, for example from countries such as Croatia and Greece, and by introducing the euro, so I repeat, intensive eviction of people from countries like Croatia and Greece by introducing the euro especially in times of recession and economic shock. So if we want additionally after we have already removed certain quotas from the law, then we will release foreigners who will lower the price of work further to the Republic of Croatia, if we want to further chase down the most vital part of our society, then the introduction of the euro at this point is perfect. And one more thing I would like to touch and I would like with a really it to be a debate for why the mechanism is stressed and it is okay, but 2021 is key on the basis that it will then actually assess whether Croatia is ready for the introduction of the euro or not. What is worried about the Mosta Club is that in 2021 it will turn into a golden calf in which everything will be subordinated to meet certain Maastricht criteria for entry into the Eurozone, which can have serious consequences and repercussions to the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9547	Final address on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Governor Boris Vujčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9548	Thank you very much for the debates and for the questions, some of them new, some of them are current, some as the esteemed representative Mr. Bulj are old and repeat every time I come here and I've answered 5, 10 times already. I'm going to try these questions that are being asked maybe consolidated into 4 groups that I've seen with the mention on several occasions, one is the euro, and I'm sure that the euro will be discussed both in 2021 and 2022 here and in the CNB publicly, one is a policy of banks and banks, and what was related to banking policy, the third question, the issue of low interest rates, is the same important issue in the future, and what it means is that risks are such long low interest rates policies that we have and that is probably ahead of us, and I'm going to try to say something about another topic that is currently mentioned, which is preventing money laundering and what the CNB does, or what it can't do, which it can't say, which it can't talk about. The first euro, of course, is not something that we are discussing behind closed doors, but something that we started together with the government in public debate after we wrote the National Strategy or after we published it. I personally went from county to county in the organization of the Chamber of Commerce, talked to people with economics, we will have a public campaign that will be for the entire population as we approach and we are always ready to discuss it. Of course, the euro is not something, our decision to go to the Eurozone, to accept the euro is based exclusively on economic analysis and nothing else, so there are neither crumbs nor ideologies nor anything but simple comparisons of the benefits and costs of it. What should be borne in mind is that of the 27 EU countries 19, the euro has already been introduced. 2 countries are currently in the process of introducing the euro, so Croatia and Bulgaria 21 of the 27 countries, Romania said 22 of the 27 countries would do the same. Obviously, not only do we see something useful in introducing the euro but most EU countries see it. And we must also say that these are countries that have less reason to introduce the euro than Croatia. Why have they less reason to introduce EUR-o than Croatia? Because they are or larger economies like Germany, France, Italy, Spain that have much more because of their independence of monetary policy than a very small economy like Croatia can have at all, and second because most of them do not have a euroisation problem at all, or it is far less than in Croatia. Croatia is among all these countries, the country that can profit most from the introduction of the EUR, means most of all. For what? As a result, it meets two basic criteria for the introduction of the EUR. One thing is that it is a very small and very open economy, very dependent on what is happening in the area. So we are already dependent on the policy of the European Central Bank. At the end of the line, I said that the swap line we received with the European Central Bank had a significant impact on the stabilisation of the exchange rate. Second and perhaps more importantly, if we compare ourselves with countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland which have not yet imported EURo, and countries are Central and Eastern Europe, these countries have a far, far lower level of euroisation, means replacing savings in their own euro-saving currency. It makes these countries far less vulnerabilities to the situation we had in the spring. So you don't have a problem, you wouldn't have a problem letting the domestic currency rate weaken 50%, if you didn't have 500 billion kuna on the EUR, they don't have, in the Czech Republic no one is saving in EUR, in Croatia most of the savings in EUR and as soon as there's a significant disturbance, even more people are running in EURo. And now that's why you don't go into the euro zone to me, I don't understand what economic work would be, someone would have to tell me where that economic meaning is not to go in such a situation in the euro-o to explain it to me. We simply do not have a exchange rate, a exchange rate instrument, but it is a limiting factor for us, not that we do not have it, but it is limiting us for the other monetary policies that the central bank can have because we have to keep a stable course that is conditio sin quo non, if it cracks everything, we have a debt crisis in Croatia, we have a huge economic crisis that will cost us terribly much. We don't have any space, no space, and we just take off that risk that sword that's always hanging over our heads, and remember what it looks like when these things happen. We had a little example with the Swiss franc. When a part of the people in charge of the Swiss franc, then he was advocating, you saw what was happening, and that's a very small example of what would happen if it happened with the kuna and the EUR, you'd have a far, far bigger problem. The second thing, the independence of interest rates, the policies of interest rates also do not exist. For small open economies and theoretically and practically cannot run an independent monetary policy in terms of interest rates. Why? Because there is something called the parity of purchasing power, the law of a single price, the parity of interest rates where if you're a small open economy near such a large economy as the euro zone, you simply don't have the opportunity to run an independent interest rate policy. You were talking about Professor... The pin I know well, personally, with whom I have been together on panels in America, in Europe, in China, we have talked together and that we disagreed about it, we will never agree on it, he has a different opinion on the introduction of the EUR, but remember, for example, when another Nobelian came in, let's say, quote Nobel laureate Paul Krugman in Croatia, he said exactly that, I don't think he'd want to wake up one day as governor of a central bank of a country like Croatia in the neighbourhood of the euro zone and a central bank, and you think you have some kind of independence of monetary policy about it. So I am always ready to discuss here, in the public, in the CNB, and to see how someone thinks that we could have and what kind of exactly monetary independence that could help us better in situations of crisis than participation in the euro area and the availability of practically unlimited monetary arsenal of the second largest economy in the world, the third largest economy in the world, depends on how you look, which doesn't have to worry about the course of its own currency and therefore has a larger, larger range of actions. I haven't noticed that none of my colleagues I'm talking to, the governor of other central banks in Europe who are in the euro zone is at any point we said we envy you for not being in the euro zone. So no, it's not bad for them, and these are my colleagues from small open economies. So there's something so bad there, or the euro zone keeps them from reacting better to a crisis like this, then they'd tell me. On the contrary, everyone says thank God that we are now in the euro zone when this is happening, and you would be much better off inside than you had to go through these problems that we've been going through, which I described on, in the spring. As far as we're concerned, there's only one technical detail regarding the differentiated rate of the minimum reserve we have, but it's not called the differentiated rate of the reserve, but it's called the minimum required foreign exchange claim, it's the same thing, so technically it has the exact same impact. We are more burdened by foreign exchange, foreign exchange assets than rabbits through high amounts of minimum required foreign exchange claims. Banks, banks are as stable as I said, they're very liquid,... they're well capitalized and that's what supervisors and regulators do. What is the task of supervisors and regulators? First of all, why is there a capital requirement regulation? The protection of deposits in banks, that's the basic reason why there's regulation. It's not consumer protection, it's deposit protection in banks. At a time when you lose confidence that deposits in banks are safe, you must have a banking crisis. Of all the crises of economics that you can and that history shows, all the empirical data are far the most expensive banking crises. You can see from our Slovenian neighbours who had a recent banking crisis, so it cost them 20 percent of GDP, or 26% of GDP, and therefore there is such regulation. Banks, if they're not profitable, they lose capital. If you were to carry your deposits into banks that aren't profitable, you wouldn't. What is the profitability of banks, the last 10 years the average rate of return to... in Croatian banks is 4.7%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of the businesses in which at this point it's not too much to invest. You'll find a lot more business opportunities to invest your capital, to carry you more than 5% a year. That's why the stock prices are so low. Price to book, meaning the price ratio of shares and capital per share, is at this point for European banks about half. So you give one euro, you get half, that's not exactly some great reason to invest in the banking sector, and we make banks have enough capital to be safe. If you look, there are only 6 Croatian banks listed on the stock market. Their price and book ratio, meaning stock and capital prices, by your share is 82% 9.10.2020., The business bank is 82%, the Croatian postal bank is 37.5%, the Istrian Credit Bank Umag is 55%, Podravska bank is 30%, Slatinska bank is 27%. So when you talk about banks, about bank profitability, about large fees, about interest rates, etc., you should also keep that in mind, what the real profitability of that business is. And what's the future of business, at the very end of the line. The business that, in this part of the fee now enters the finetech and takes his clients. So that's the one, let's say, the fattest part of that business on the margins at this point. If you consider that, then it probably doesn't look like something like that, so, so attractive as business and banks de facto, what are they doing? Since interest margins are so low, they reduce because now and the fees have significant competition and because the CNB insisted that citizens get exactly how much fees they pay, now you get from the bank at the end of the year, that's consumer protection again, is it? And because you have a growing competition and a transparent fee announcement, then it's cost reduction, right? Banks in Croatia have reduced costs from about 52% in 2015 to 46% compared to income. So that Cost/income rat, now it's up to 55% in 2020, is it, because income has fallen. Cost/income 55% in this situation will further affect these results. They reduced employment from more than 22,000 people in 2015 to.../incomprehensible/... 2007, so before the crisis, some 19,000 will now continue to reduce bank employment. They're currently hiring about 19,000 people. But the only way to maintain a return on capital is to reduce, at this point in time of cost and given monetary policy, this low for long, long-term, very low interest rates that we can expect at this time, it is difficult to expect any other exit in that business, and this low for long, low interest rates for a very long time will definitely have a significant impact on all those who manage the assets, pension funds, but also on the insurance to a significant extent. See what insurance offers you today as life insurance, for example? Is this a product that you find attractive when you look at it yourself? And this is because the interest rates are so low and of course that pension funds can't do much better, they are lucky that they are still in positive assets, they are not negative, however, and Croatia is starting to borrow at negative interest rates and that will inevitably be a problem for the pension industry, i.e. for the pensions of Croatian citizens, which will take longer, those who can diversify themselves in shares, etc., they can do, they can produce results. Someone can make a capital gain on the bonds, but you can do it in principle, once, then you get a bag of accounting tricks slowly blank so you can't even do it anymore, but pension funds are definitely not the kind of institutions that can be too exposed to high risks, like, like the stock market, and that's definitely something that I'm sure we're going to do both in 2021 and '22. and '23. there in the Parliament still debates because these problems will not go away safely. The fourth thing, mentioning that... and he was already mentioned in public, so I'd just like to say, the CNB is one of the mechanisms in the process of preventing money laundering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first banks are alone. We are the second to monitor whether the procedures and rules and their application in banks are adequate, third Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering which is essentially the one that initiates the proceedings, not the banks or the CNB, but the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the fourth are the authorities of the prosecution, is it, if it is criminal acts, etc., it is known who processes it. What are we doing? We're trying to make sure our policy ensures that the systems control banks are good enough that any suspicious transaction is being reported as suspicious by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. We're obviously as clear to the public now, but we can't talk about it because it's a supervisory secret by which I can't even tell you here anything about it under the law that passed this House, I can't talk about it, you've banned me. In other words, we will only be able to publish as if you go to our site, you will see, publish all the misdemeanor proceedings when they are finished, what was, how much responsibility was punished, how many institutions were punished and for which it was punished, so it will be by law when the infringement is over. If there will be other types of proceedings, then they are other institutions that run these proceedings and they are also governed by the laws adopted by this Assembly and can say what I can say even when I can say it. So it's not in any way about any lack of transparency, it's simply about how we act according to the law, and the way we conduct our own way of monitoring, and we're trying to make the banks stick to the practical rules, we can do it and I'm very happy to talk very transparently about what we're doing here, I can't tell you about certain banks, I can't tell you whether like you said Zaba had the best of these procedures, probably weren't as good as you can already see by the fact that the bank itself decided to replace the people responsible for it and the procedure is ongoing, but what I'm sure is that we achieved that in the future and already it's quite safe in the Zagreb bank and in the rest of the banking sector of awareness about it and the policies that these banks are carrying out, to be significantly better, which is of course important to us and for our accession process... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9549	Time. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9550	Thank you very much. Dear Governor, very easy for you, Miro Bulj repeats it, yes, I repeat, I repeat, I am not your team from Peppermint or from... I have repeated here, and I will repeat again, how much of the fees and fees in the percentage of the bank have profits, which are not taxed, which means, in my opinion, the robbery of the Croatian people because the banks have made that biggest profit possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you talk about the euro, then why do the world's most recognized experts say that it's not the smartest time to introduce the euro now? Answer me, I'll repeat that. I'll repeat myself to waiters and chefs, but... that it's not primarily now, that the revision, the state review that needs to be entered into the CNB, we know what battles we've fought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I will repeat it because the people have chosen me and it is my right to repeat it. And of course I'll repeat these things to you until the CNB is as folk as it has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9551	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9552	Thank you very much. So, since I've already answered the second question several times, I'm going to answer this question you asked about fees and fees, 3 billion and 600 million kuna was the net revenue from fees and commissions in 2019, right, that's the last year I have for 2020, it's still early to say, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9553	The next replica, the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9554	Here, Mr. Vujčić, can you explain to me, for example, Greece, what is the advantage of entering the euro zone, of course from the perspective of the social majority? And the second question is, how is it that in its statutes as one of the first objectives and the conduct of monetary policy has high employment and employment care in America while on the other hand the CNB exclusively cares about exchange rate stability and prices?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9555	Thank you very much. As far as Greece is concerned, the advantage it has had because it is in the euro zone is to receive huge assistance from the euro area institutions. So the European Stability Mechanism, the European stability mechanism from Luxembourg, is currently owned by me, I think over 60% of Greek bonds and Greece pays an average price less on that debt than Croatia. If it wasn't in the euro zone, the interest rates at which Greece would pay would not be how many but multiple, probably dozens of percent compared to 1% that it pays, and in this way and in some way the euro zone has drawn Greece out of this crisis so it doesn't go completely bankrupt. And as for this other one, well that's simply the consequence of the historical legacy, the Fed had it, so Constituted, so two goals and in European all laws is one single goal and these are prices, now it can be discussed for a long time, one or the other, which he means for monetary policy, there are a lot of discussions... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9556	Time. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9557	Regarding the 19 countries that you said were in the euro zone, Greece entered the euro zone through a political decision, it was economically not ready for such a move, and according to Prof. Stiegiz, the governor would like to get out of the euro zone so he doesn't have to put up with such financial rigour as to say I can't do kindergartens and Germany can do kindergartens on that basis, so then Greek families would rather go live in Germany than live in Greece. That finding would be agreed by the governor of Sweden, for example, who is not currently in the eurozone, but has such an economy that is much better, much better performance has than the euro area itself, so it allowed the people to declare themselves on entering the euro zone. And regarding your euroisation, I have read the article, that is, the work of Mrs and colleague Dumičić, and has analyzed the subject of euroisation well. But what's the main question here is that those rates you're saying are not adequate, for example, to save in kunas could be zero. and at EUR 20, and at that moment, commercial banks could encourage or give people to, say, besmirch 3%. [[Intruder: Time]] Let's say for EUR 0.25 and this commercial route would then make a currency transformation. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9558	As far as these interest rates are concerned, are you alluding that we could have negative interest rates, charge us as CNB or didn't understand? The banks themselves determine what interest rates will be deposited, the CNB can't do that. We only determine the interest rate we pay the banks, we pay zero. There is also a commission in the Mandatory Relations Act that says that interest rates must be paid. The negative interest rate is difficult to pay, especially the lawyers warned that it was charged, that it had a negative interest rate in Croatia while the Law on Mandatory Relations it... Is that so? ... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9559	Please don't communicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9560	But that's what banks decide and we have nothing. The bank itself decides how much it will give at both the deposit and the loan, so it cannot determine the CNB at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9561	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9562	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Governor, I had no intention of talking about the introduction of the EUR. The attitude of the Homeland Movement is clear, we believe that the Croatian economy is not ready, so we are not in principle against it, but we believe that the economy is not ready. And here I will remind you of the letter of intent which you co-signed to eat and which you sent last year in the 7th month in which you committed to selling state property that is not of particular interest, depolitisation of state services, to reduce the number and total amount of parafiscal contributions, administrative obligations for entrepreneurs, etc., so that is just one small fraction of the one that confirms, we are not exactly moving in this direction, and that confirms our tendency that our economy and the whole system is not ready to introduce the EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9563	This is a good question at which point the country is ready to introduce the EUR. What I can tell you in such a short time than a minute is that if you compare the countries that have now entered the euro area from Central and Eastern Europe and Croatia, then only one had a higher standard, meaning GDP per capital than Croatia at the time of entry into the euro zone, which is Slovenia, all others had lower. If that was a good time for them, then it's good for us, and now we can keep spreading that debate, but that's one of the quick indicators that we're looking at... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9564	Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9565	No, no, so I think the economy has a lot of problems, they're... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9566	Please don't communicate with each other. Boris Lalovec, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9567	Thank you very much. Dear Governor, have you, have you done this latest analysis of the financial potential of Croatian companies? I know you spoke publicly about it, what's the latest information we have is that 1/3 of Croatian companies can get loans, or they can get 1/3 can't win at all, can they, and 1/3 shouldn't? Now, given that the crown crisis has completely changed the balances of Croatian companies, when will this new analysis come out, is that actually determining the future investment potential for economic growth? This is a very important analysis because it will also determine certain directions for future economic growth, or when, as soon as possible, it will be. We're all waiting for this to happen as soon as possible, and I think it's very interesting that this analysis comes out as soon as possible, so I'm wondering if you have any preliminary data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9568	We don't have for now, that, that too, that answer to that question very much, but some meaningful analysis won't be possible until mid next year. We need to see first when this whole process is over, the exception we've given the banks so they can classify clients properly, recognise losses, reprogramme loans, etc., when that fog clears up, then we'll have more reliable data, but we'll certainly do that analysis again as we've done before. And what we can say is that the coronary crisis has reduced the safe number of companies that are creditworthy at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9569	Governor, thank you very much. Your Honor, we've concluded the debate with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9570	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-15-0.u9571	We'll discuss it when the conditions are met. I'll give you five minutes off before I go to the second point. It's 6:00 P.M.
