ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9626	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. Before we move to the agenda according to article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 4th session with 13 new points. These are: Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Profits, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Income, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fiscalisation of Taxation of Cash, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures related to the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation for the Prevention of Taxation and Redirecting of Profits, Final Proposal for a Law on Foreigners, Final Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Regulations regulate certain issues and part-Circular HS, Proposal for a Depositary Insurance System, Proposal for a Law on Force Liquidation of Credit Institutions, Interpellation of the Law of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia-Cors. The proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 4th session. Next week we're working from Tuesday to Friday, and now I'm going to tell you what we're going to do on Tuesday so you can get ready, and today after the debate, you're going to get a schedule in a week. So, on Tuesday, we will start by saying clubs, free speech, after which we will declare amendments to the Budget Rebalance proposal 13, if it still is today, and then we will do so, and then the Final Bill's proposal to refer workers to the Republic of Croatia and cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions will come together to discuss the points of the Bill on the Deposit Insurance System and the Proposal for a Law on Force Liquidation of Credit Institutions. Do we agree with that? All right. And after that, I count about three hours of the afternoon Interpellation on the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the project Wind Power Plant Krš-Padene and finally we have a report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the mandate of one SDP representative. That would mean Tuesday's work, and Wednesday would vote on all the points discussed and on budget rebalancing. For the rest, you'll get information after we've finished working today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9685	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9686	... The speakers that pointed to potential problems that would arise from the abolition of a police station in the city of Pregrad. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, the mayor of the town of Pregrade was informed by the head of the PU Krapina-Zagorska about the plan to merge the PP Pregrada and PP Krapina. It has also been informed by the Police Directorate that organisational and functional changes are planned through a reduction in the number of managers and an increase in the number of unemployed enforcement officers on the ground aimed at functionally improving the business process in the police, improving police operations, improving the service of citizens, improving and speeding up decisions and implementing decisions and further improving the state of security, of course, the quality of public service and the individual quality of life in the local community. I don't have to tell you how surprised this surprised the mayor and all of us who know the situation in the town of Pregradi and the municipalities that actually cover the PP Cemetery. Of course, we all understand the need for rational police management, however, I am deeply convinced that it is unlikely that the removal of management jobs and the transfer of those officers to operational and less paid jobs would improve the safety situation in the Presidency. The town of Pregrada, the municipality of Hum na Sutla and the municipality of Desinić are peaceful and secure environments with a relatively small number of crime cases, traffic accidents and other legal illicit activities. This year, the town of Pregrad was among the three safest cities in Croatia and in 2016 it was declared one of the safest cities in Croatia and it is therefore very important to stress that the PP Pregrada is doing its job very professionally and is involved in all events in the community in cooperation with the town of Pregrad and the municipalities that I mentioned, as well as with the associated institutions, associations, institutions and economic operators. Employees of the Pregrad Police Station regularly participate in the work of the city's civil protection headquarters and municipalities in educational activities in educational and educational institutions, sports events, entertainment and cultural events and in any case are at the service of their citizens. Since the police station is being shut down because of insufficient number of illicit operations, it turns out that citizens of the area are being punished for creating a pleasant and safe environment for life by respecting the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It is forgotten that the quality of the police station Pregrada so far and the presence of police on the ground is one of the reasons why the crime rate situation in the city is very low. However, due to the nearness of the state border, especially in the last few years, I have to stress the increased threat due to the illegal crossing of the state border. Police station Pregrada is responsible for largely preventing illegal crossings, and migrants are being treated satisfactorily and thanks to this, residents of the city do not feel the presence of foreigners who are illegally staying in that area. Therefore, I am taking the opportunity to draw attention from this High House that the goal of all of us should be primarily a quality public service to our citizens and I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior to respect everything I have stated here and to withdraw the proposal to abolish the Police Station of the Barrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9762	And now, as we have announced, the time has come for us to take a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. So let's start with how you signed up. First, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc, the respected representative Rada Boric, is not here, losing his right to speak. Well, this time that but I beg you, I have announced in advance, announced [[I've been through it.]] All right, here you go. [[I'm sorry, there was no list, I asked.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9763	I'm sorry, I was in the other room and I was following and I even asked the lady who was sitting with us if I could find out the order, so she said the order would just show up, so there's still a little bit of technical damage. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here we have discussed today and the importance of the work of the board and we really think it is extremely important that the public is familiar with the work of the committee and wherever it is and wherever it is possible to make it possible to follow the board's meetings live or what is called in the new Croatian that they are streaming whether or not there is live streaming, here is why it is important. Since the HDZ on the Environment and Nature Protection Committee has broken the agenda point three times around the Waste Management Centre, I am sure that our citizens would be interested in why this government that we heard yesterday and the day before that is one of the key topics, how extremely important the circulatory economy is, and here even since they have not even been accepted the ideas of citizens related to this topic today I will say something about the Babin Mountain Waste Management Centre. It is a regional centre for the management of mixed municipal waste of Karlovac County, part of north-east, Personal-Sin County and the western part of Sisak-Moslavina County. So we have 6, 7 cities and 20 municipalities involved in this project. The project should have 4 cargo stations, water supply, electricity supply and traffic, and it costs 270 million kuna. Of these 270 million kunas, 195 million kuna comes from the European Fund, of course the rest is ours. What is interesting is that the competition, two times repeated and three offers were opened in June this year, and three offers were also not selected by the contractor, although the access road, slightly more than 7 million of them were also made from funds, but some of the problems of such spending were also discussed, but these 3 offers were certainly greater than the 270 million envisaged, so the decision at the ministry is whether to invest anything else. But I wouldn't talk about it today, I would say just how important the public is, the public who has been warning from the first environmental impact studies since 2006, how hydrogeological research has been done extremely superficially, or what up to 2 meters from 3 bogeyers, so it's repeated in the '10s and '11s, so it's the same case all over again that this project looks like, it's similar to what we've seen in Marinščina or in Kastij, we've seen that we have good technology, but with the wrong procedures done, and we know what understanding of management is, and we know who has the consequences. It's enough here to ask yourself what 4 of these loading stations mean and where you don't know how much this would cost, for example. A loading station in Slunj that will once a week take a ton of waste, not to say that it is a false and imaginary recovery from the biowaste of gas, etc. What I would like to say today is how important it is that citizens have come to know what they are doing with waste management and that of citizens who also consider it related to Karlovac, i.e. In Babina Gora. They know that waste should be put off somewhere, they know how to recover, but not what they warn, which is the real concern about the environment, they say that citizens' initiatives from the Right, from the Karlovac initiative, the consumer society Vrbovska, a series of associations brought together by experts are always spoken as if activists who are not professional, who do not know the profession, they say that we forgot that the town of Karlovac lies on drinking water reserves for the whole part of Croatia, 64 sources Drinking water is abandoned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9764	Thank you very much. ... On behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club will now speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9827	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our prime minister, Mr Plenkovic, gets very angry every time or not to say, he gets upset when the earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area is mentioned, and when he mentions that this is going slowly, that it is not good, that it is not effective, that everything should be done a little differently and then boasts about everything that has been done, so I would like someone who has the opportunity to bring importance to Prime Minister Plenkovic the next fact. At this point, 4000 families in the city of Zagreb are not able to connect to gas. So, they'll be out of hot water and heating this winter. And why is that? On April 23rd, Mr. Bandić wrote to Mr. Bandić as mayor of Zagreb and as a reliable coalition partner to Mr. Plenkovic that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Law on flammable fluids and gases and that technical regulations for gas installations should be changed because it is necessary to do so in order to get gas after the earthquake. Since the 23rd of April, absolutely nothing has been made, and the 27th of October city congregation at its last session has reached the same conclusion, although that conclusion does not have some power, they have no importance other than to point out that fact. And now we have a problem. Either the city gas station and the service are wrong, so the current regulations and current laws can be applied, so we don't have to change anything or this has to change, so it didn't, and I note that this law on flammable fluids and gases is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. So either it's variant A or it's variant B. So it's not both wrong. It is not good that since April 23rd, since the knowledge was made, there has been no time, no energy, no effort to sit at the table and arrange and see, we are going to make an urgent change to the law and all the rules that these families could really get gas or, if it is not necessary to do so, then give guidance on how it is necessary to do so. But your real condition is that these 4,000 families in the city of Zagreb do not currently have a gas connection. They can't get it there until February, March, that they will spend this winter without heating and without hot water and, God forbid a strong winter, because then in the city of Zagreb the consequences of these strong winters will be much more serious or stronger than in Siberia. What I'm saying from this pay phone is facts. We absolutely know that 4 thousand families are gas-free, we have absolutely all the data that has been written to the Ministry of the Interior and asked the Prime Minister directly to do something about it, and we absolutely know that nothing has been done right now. Paper suffers, real people stand behind the earthquake in Zagreb, real families exist and there are real problems. There are people who really believe, and when someone says they can't connect your gas and when they hear from the other side of Mr. Plenkovic who says he's done everything, what he's done together for his fellow citizens, there's just something wrong. The earthquake in the city of Zagreb, as always happens to you, has shaken a number of other problems and I will just point out another. Behind the earthquake in Zagreb, one of the biggest problems is chimneys. And the state decided to donate 12,000 kuna to chimneys. With this programme of measures that I have already mentioned you must work, among other things, on a series of projects and labs. People meet me on the street and say that these projects cost between 3 and 30 thousand kuna, and that the recovery of a chimney that needs heating already goes up to 70 thousand kunas, something simply doesn't work, so I'm ordering from this pay phone once again, someone to bring importance to Mr. Plenkovic, at least to a paper solution because at this point 4000 citizens or family have no gas and no hope of getting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9828	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Rade Simicevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9923	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, there are few of us, few of us but we are real, yes. Here, I'm going to talk about a system of education and education and before I just wanted to say a sentence about what my colleague, a respected colleague, said about people who don't have water. I can't believe that winter will come next without those people getting hot water and gas. Well, we'll do everything we can to get them because no one deserves to feel bad here in Croatia, especially after this earthquake. I want to thank everyone in the country because we are at the time of the coronary virus pandemic and I thank all of the people who serve us in the store, to the people in the hospitals who treat us, and in a special way I want to thank the people who work in the system of education and education who teach, raising our children. So from maids, teachers, pedagogical services, technical services to the school principal he runs. I'll also remember the 9th month when some opposition parties said that the education and education system wasn't ready, and now we're denying them. So, the system of education and education is huge, he's trom, he's having a hard time changing, but he's ready for all the challenges that are at this point. You know that the system is adapted to the current situation, that we have model A, model B and model C. Model A is teaching at school, model B is a mixed model and C online teaching. And now the data from 6.11. according to data obtained directly from school from principals and directors. So A teaching or A model, teaching at school, 968 schools, or 71.23%, B model, mixed classes 84 schools, 6,18% and C online classes, so students who work teaching from home, 51 schools and 3.75% respectively. Then we have a combination of A and B models, 54 schools, 3.9%, combination A and C 201 schools and 14.79 and combination B and C 1 schools and 0.07%, respectively. Clearly, in the system of education and education as well as we do here in the community, we are all susceptible, so that we currently have 585 educational workers in self-insulation, i.e. Covid positive 542 workers. In total, we have a system of education and education employees 64 851, which is actually 0.83% Covid of positive employees. Also, it's probably a smaller number here since the isolation time has decreased, before we had 15 days of isolation, now we have 10 days, and it's probably this number smaller than it might have been. And as for the students, we currently have 7 358 students in self-insulation, i.e. Covid positive 1,152 students. If we do this in statistics, we have 458 771 students in Croatia and that is 0.25% Covid positive. In the end, I hope that teaching will last as long as possible because we know that no form of teaching can replace physical teaching and this way I express my support to all who are employed in the system of education and education that teaching in schools takes as long as possible because school without students is actually not a school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9924	Thank you. My colleague Bulj has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What is the injured Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9925	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague was injured by an officer. In 238, because I believe that he demeaned the MPs and injured them, and he hypocritically insulted our meanings as educators, praised them, and their wages are minor, material rights, as well as doctors. So here's a suggestion, take the teleopers like Germany took its teleoperator and give that money to health care professionals..
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9926	.../ Well, you get a warning because it has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9927	...but this is a hypocritical insult to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9928	...that you've committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you not to do so in the future. That's what we're gonna... You have something to say, Comrade Bull? That's what we're gonna end up with today's session. As the president announced this morning, we will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. First, it will be the presentation of the position of clubs, and then the declaration of amendments. And then we'll finish today's work, thank you very much, and have a nice weekend, all of you. Session interrupted at 12.54 hours. The next club of representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u9999	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So a country that does not manage its resources raises its own sovereignty and leaves itself to the mercy and mercies of world powers and corporations with very little potential to influence its own future. Such a country is condemned to be very easily controlled and thrown out by various pressures and lagging behind in the development and suffering high levels of exposure to crises. Agriculture land management as a key renewable natural resource in food production, as well as an important source of raw materials for numerous industrial branches in Croatia is marked by wandering and political experiments. The attempt to introduce order and transparency on the availability of agricultural land has been suspended as amended suspended as political furniture was changing in power. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleagues and colleagues, please allow my colleague Vukovac to say what he wants to say, please.]] Unfortunately, we do not even know today how much we have the total area of farmland, the problem has been particularly evident when Croatia enters the EU. At the beginning of the negotiations, we presented that we have 2.7 million ha and in the end we accepted and signed a financial envelope for only 800,000 ha. Already, that fact is enough to say how irresponsible we are to this natural resource. According to Art. 52. The Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is of special interest and enjoys special protection. However, numerous examples and the present state speak exactly the opposite, of the lack of concern for the sustainable availability of agricultural land. Over the past 30 years, 18 agricultural land laws or amendments and additions have been in force. There is a new law being drafted even though it has not yet been implemented. Already when proposing the current law, it was evident that it was not applicable on the ground and would cause an avalanche of dissatisfaction. The OPGs and small farmers who account for 96% of the total economies gave hope that they could come up with the necessary resource for life and, with large users, caused fear of loss since then used state agricultural land. However, when lawmaking takes place without an analysis of the existing situation and a previous assessment of the possible effects of the law, nothing else can be expected. Such treatment leads us to conclude that in Croatia agricultural land is used exclusively as a means of satisfying certain political interests by creating fertile soil for corruption and malfeasance. The productivity of Croatian agricultural production according to the European Commission data is 66% lower than the European average with a steady trend of further decline. The reasons for low productivity and poor competitiveness lie also in the fragmentation of agricultural land. We have a number of cases where agricultural production or agriculture processes several hundred parcels, which put them into the very beginning of European farmers, cost-effectiveness and efficiency. The use of state agricultural land is too difficult for war cultures to significantly affect the indicators of Croatian productivity in agriculture because of the products of very low added value. A further injustice has been created by institutions that have been lurking for years on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Playing an economic programme based on which the land was leased, then unprocessed land but used support, and then massive bribes that have been banned by law, but because of the leases, no contract has been broken, which even the State's Attorney's office sees as a problem, are the reasons why it falls on all farmers, and those who use these numbered malversions to those who work hard and honestly on the ground. The system put together as it is, there is neither will nor courage to deal with these phenomena. All structural changes in rural areas and agriculture are subject to a clear and defined land policy that regulates the use, ownership and market of agricultural land. For such a policy, there must be a stable land management system to support its implementation, but to this day it has not been built and therefore a wide space is opened for and what else but simply said is the abduction of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u10053	The following will be the Independent Lists Bridge Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u10054	Here I will speak after my colleague spoke of a Zagreb earthquake that caused enormous damage, I will repeat again, that earthquake that made Zagreb a disaster. But I repeat, from Slavonia to my Dalmatian Zagora, from Vukovar to Savudrija in undeveloped areas, the policies conducted towards these undeveloped mountain-mounted areas towards Slavonia, according to our village is at least 10 times worse than what the earthquake has done, and apparently nobody sees. All in Zagreb you can see, the focus is media, the Parliament is in Zagreb, the government is in Zagreb and in Slavonia, Zagorija, I don't know, Lici, G. Kotar, all, Zagorje, about those areas who do not exist and are basically wiped out literally, not superficially, but without people, without cattle, without children, school empty, about this problem we have to talk as much about with this pay phone and give solutions, of course. I would just say how much money, money could be saved in the budget, and how the rich are affected, as is the example of the HT to which it is in the 5th month. A reduced fee for the frequency of 50%, which is 100 million kuna, by a foreign teleoperator and is not reduced by our citizens. And the same teleoperator in the Republic of Croatia has a margin or profit 38% and does not invest in the Republic of Croatia but the citizens of Croatia fill their pockets. And also, I'll repeat, yesterday I told Prime Minister Plenkovic who told several lies, not to tell a lie. Deutsche Telekom in Germany began commercially using the 5G network and paid the German state 2.17 billion euros. In us HT boasts that he started using the 5G network, do you know how much that foreign teleoper paid for the Republic of Croatia? Zero, nothing. Even though we have a more liberal law in Croatia after setting up telecommunications equipment base stations, in all other countries we need a building permit, a triba project and therefore the biggest prize of teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, throughout Europe. Not only in the EU, but also in non-EU countries. There's money on the income side where it's taken to the rich. Where those who have a 40% profit and it boasts that this year 38% has a margin. We have a place with that money, so that's the first topic. Another very important topic is waste management. The Minister of Environmental and Economy Threatened Waste Management. Last year, at this time, he closed up the well-deposed waste dump because it had no communal conditions, sending waste to Sinj under the same sanitary conditions. That's when I stood in front of the truck and didn't let it go. Because it's stupid from one of the same municipal waste, with the same sanitary conditions to transport 120 km of highway, first of all the costs to the Vrgorčana, the second to dress it up in the Cetina region, calling for how it will solve the CGO Lečevica of course. 30 million kuna. Sanader, he was the mayor, our vice president now. He had already said in 2009 that in 2011, Lečevica will be open which is a harmful project because it is located in the area where drinking water flows into the field, caves, where it will pollute everything, instead of investing 30 million kunas for the CGOs and still on Lečevica, you're growing blackberries, grass and now, when he closed the vregorakko, he closed Sinjsko, where are we going with the waste? He made chaos, he made chaos, not only did he betray national interests in Krsh-Padena, energy national interests, but he threatened up there something happened in Italy a few years ago in Naples. Where are we going with the waste, Ministers of Environmental Threat? I repeat, environmental threats. Threatening the economy, jeopardising energy, endangering national interests, endangering everything that is Croatian, Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u10055	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11306	We now move to the agenda: - The final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on the Amendment and Completion of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, the emergency procedure, first and second reading is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article. 80. The Constitution and the Art. 60. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this proposal should be discussed in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, respected colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11307	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the HS and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has been set out unanimously at its session. What is crucial to say and the most important of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure means compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court which abolished the Article. 293a, which is the article of the Rules of Procedure which regulates the work of HS under these special conditions of the pandemic and the dangers it carries with it, and is related to the health and lives of both officials and people working in HS, as well as parliamentary representatives. We all know we've had our shot. 293a, which prescribed a certain way of working and, therefore, a group of MPs submitted a request for an assessment of constitutionality and the Constitutional Court sided with that Article. 239th and unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court based that decision I would say on two key facts. First, what is said is that all MPs have the possibility in that rotational and alteration system that everyone has the right to manifest themselves and that they all have the right to discuss each point. The Constitutional Court said that the intention is legitimate, that the legislator's intention is fine, but that system of amendments and rotation of MPs in the debate on certain points does not guarantee participation in the whole debate but only that part of the debate where the representative is determined that he can then speak. This reflects, of course, on the possibility of replicating at a certain point that violates the dynamics of the Parliament's work. Also, what the Constitutional Court has said to me crucially means that if we have given technical opportunities to those who are not in the Assembly, means that they are not physically in the Assembly, but are in self-insistence that they can vote, they should be allowed to participate in the debate. That's what I'd say two key messages from the Constitutional Court's decision and we've handled ourselves in order to make this new article. 293.b, which comes instead of 293a, in order to place it in the framework of the Constitution, and to achieve the goals we want. I would also like to say this, that even before the Constitutional Court's decision, discussions were held in the Chamber on amendments to the Rules of Procedure in this direction, it was the Bureau of the Assembly and asked the representatives of the clubs to deliver certain proposals they have and afterwards I, as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, invited all the presidents or representatives of the clubs to make another statement. We had this meeting, there was basically a debate, everyone took a certain, certain time and took part in it and made suggestions, and when all this is undermining we're here somewhere in what we're proposing today. So, new amendments offer a debate that will actually be organised that these representatives are located in several halls, that, at the same time, everyone participates in the debate, that those who are not in the assembly can participate in the discussion of the video conference, so if for certain health problems they cannot be physically in any of these halls, they will be able to appear through video conference and debate, refer replicas, and tomorrow means votes. We also have an update here because, as we can see, this virus is spreading here and to an increasing number of MPs, so we predicted the situation if it comes to the fact that the president who got over it and all the vice presidents are unable to lead, then by the decision of the president, those MPs as he does, as he determines them. Someone may ask, we are already working in this way today as we are actually predicting this Rules of Procedure, we are working in this way today, regardless of the fact that the Rules of Procedure did not formally come into force, but the decision of the Presidency is on this kind of work organisation based on epidemiological measures and recommendations. However, in any case, we should, in my opinion, also bring the formal Rules of Procedure into line with this situation, because God forbid when this is no more, and possibly something similar happens to us that we have a formal framework for, for this organisation of assembly sessions in a way that all MPs can discuss each point, on every issue. Here, thank you very much, for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure which have the legal force of the law we suggest they be in emergency procedure. We held several discussions at the Committee on the Constitution and we propose that we accept these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11308	Thank you, fellow Bosniak. We don't have any replicas, so then I'm just still calling the rapporteur of the Committee of Legislatives, would a colleague of Jelkovac like to speak? No, then I'm opening a debate. The SDP representative club is the first, respected colleague of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11309	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament at the meeting on 30 April 2020, the Rules of Procedure on the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to which the title above Article 293a is added in the Rules of Procedure. which regulates the work of parliaments in the event of an outbreak and an infectious disease or the danger of an outbreak of infectious disease and a pandemic of an infectious disease. To the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, 35 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, including representatives and representatives of the SDP, submitted a request to initiate the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of Article 293a. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with a proposal to suspend the Constitutional Court until the execution of certain acts or actions taken pursuant to this article and to withdraw that article. That request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions of this Article has been submitted to the Rules of Procedure for the reasons that the number of representatives who may only replicate to those representatives who have the right to attend the meeting has been limited. The above-mentioned additions to the Rules of Procedure limit the number of representatives of individual clubs who can attend the debates, the number of MPs who can replicate the legislators, the number of representatives who can replicate other representatives at individual presentations of other MPs. In addition, it is prohibited to hold the thematic meetings of the working bodies of the Assembly until further discussion of the legislative proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is allowed. Equally, the time has been cut short for the presentation of representatives' clubs, individual representatives' speeches and the duration of the break. In doing so, the exchange of club members is to allow them to make their views known only in case of individual debate until the same is allowed for the case of the presentation of the applicant during which the proposer can be asked questions through the replica, to be held. We felt that these restrictions represent significant and disproportionate restrictions on MPs to make free, personal, public arguments in the political debate and to establish the basis of the government's trio, which is the control of the executive authority through parliament. We felt that these restrictions represent significantly the restrictions on freedom of political speech for which the Constitutional Court stated in 2015 that when it comes to political debate, only the most necessary restrictions on freedom of speech are acceptable because freedom of political debate is at the very heart of the concept of democratic society. Limits based on the limitations are based on a legitimate objective, which in this case is to protect health because it is about restrictions on the establishment of an epidemic or a pandemic of Covida-19. However, the key question is whether such a restriction is necessary in a democratic society in order to achieve a legitimate objective and whether it is measures that are proportionate to the objective of achieving or whether the same objective could be achieved by gentler measures. In fact, we felt that this objective, the implementation of epidemiological measures with the aim of protecting human health, could also be achieved through milder measures. As the first parliamentary debates can be organised so that part of the representatives follow the debate through the video link, which is already visible before the adoption of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and can report for replication and communicate with the legislator and the representatives present in the assembly. If the addition of the Rules of Procedure makes it possible to vote in a video link, there is no reason not to allow the same form of communication to take part in the debate preceding the vote. By its decision of 20 October 2020, the Constitutional Court repealed Article 293a. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and, among other things, the argument that the rule of law and the democratic multilateral system are two of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and are fundamental to the interpretation of the Constitution, and any restriction in the exercise of the rights and duties of the representatives or MPs belonging to them under the Constitution must have an objective and reasonable justification. He stated that, in those circumstances, for the time being, the Constitutional Court does not find such justification. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which repeals the Article. 293a The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposes this Rules of Procedure to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the HS with the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure in order to delete the Article. 293a and adds 293b. The main objective of this amendment is to allow the presence of all MPs at the session of the Assembly both in the Assembly and in the Halls in the Assembly building and outside the Assembly, according to the Presidency's decision, and to participate by electronic means or by means of an audio or video conference through those representatives who are not justified or in relation to the health situation, in the rooms for the session of the Assembly. The working bodies' sessions may also be held and transmitted by electronic means or audio and video conference channels. I therefore believe that under these conditions, the Covida-19 pandemics allow MPs or MPs to participate fully in the work of the Assembly and will support this proposal to amend and supplement the HS Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11310	Thank you. I also welcome all three MPs in the halls who are not here in the grand council. Let's move on to our respected colleague, Ruzica Vukovac, the Homeland Movement Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11311	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Starting from the fact that the rule of law and the democratic multilateral system are two of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the Constitution, any restriction in the exercise of the rights and duties of the representatives to whom they belong must have an objective and reasonable justification. In the current circumstances in which this assembly of the Republic of Croatia operates, such justification was not found by the Constitutional Court. We at the Department of Homeland Movement Club notice that the provisions of our country's most acts are often forgotten, so I will repeat several provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. "In the Republic of Croatia, power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. The people exercise power by selecting their representatives and making direct decisions. HS is the representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. Representatives in HS do not have a binding mandate." Therefore, the system of representative rule is constitutionally expressed through a representative mandate, and the legal nature of the representative mandate is derived from the theory of indivisible national sovereignty. A representative mandate means such a relationship between the voters and their MPs, according to which MPs are independent of the voter positions they have chosen, so voters cannot even recall them. In this high house, I personally spoke several times about the nontransparent way of passing the law. The above-mentioned additions to the Rules of Procedure, in particular in the section which prevents the replication of all MPs to the legislator, the limitation of the length of the duration of the presentation of the position and the disabling of the participation of the professional and general public in the work of the working bodies of the Assembly, therefore I am also talking about the maintenance of the thematic sessions themselves, are limited to the HS to perform a number of its functions entrusted to it by the Constitution, and the special possibility of parliamentary control by the executive authority, which violates the principle of the government's division to allow the concentration of political power within the executive branch of power. It is doubtless that the occurrence of an infectious disease requires adjustment measures but still the bitter taste remains in our mouth to the representatives of the opposition remains questionable whether it is necessary to limit the speech of the MPs in front of the club of representatives from the usual 15 minutes to 10 minutes to 10 or a speech in an individual debate from 10 minutes to 5. There's no reasonable explanation for that. We still see within that limit the restriction of freedom of speech. I believe that I will rightly say that it is still about limiting the last line of defense to our opposition. Statistical indicators speak of a large number of restrictions that we already endure from a very small, almost minor acceptance of the amendment through a rather frequent practice of passing laws under a reduced procedure which lacks a quality debate in two readings. Although the info-doc database therefore information-documentation service does not have the ability to monitor and automatically produce statistics according to the position-opposition criteria, mostly because the legal status of the representatives is rather difficult to track and the parties and representatives enter and exit the ruling coalition and change their position or opposition status, change parties or representatives are leaving them and become independent representatives, so from the positional station opposition vice versa or nominally not members of the ruling coalition, but still support the government, therefore the combinations are indeed different, faithful and responsible officials have indeed made an effort, and I am thanks to them thanks to the work done and respected effort, because they have manually created the database from which it is visible how much the work of the opposition is respected in the past two meetings of the Republic of Croatia, although the limits are not clear because of the above reasons for the analysis of the following 10 data are based on the data. 29 times. The opposition parliamentary issues in writing in the 9th term were raised by 2212, with an unaccounted for by as many as 394. In the 10th term, 97 was set up, so far 58 of them have been irresponsible. When we talk about the bill's proposals in the 9th session, they're being sent to procedure 200, and there's only 111 left unsettled. When we talk about the 10th term, it's referred to the 19th procedure, and all 19 are still unsettled. I note that no one will bear sanctions for this. Despite the greater intensity of the publication of information on the Internet, there remains a significant space in strengthening the transparency and openness of public authorities as fundamental principles including the right to debate in HS itself. The overall level of transparency and openness of public authorities is not sufficient or satisfactory. To note many irregularities, we also attribute this attempt to restrict the right to freedom of speech to MPs. In addition to all of these, I consider it important to note that this government has quietly accepted the practice of its ministers, whose main part of the legislative proposals are limited to a minimum number of days prescribed by law or, most often, to a short period of time in the direction of limiting the spirit of parliamentaryism and democracy itself. The rulings played a role in imposing restrictions on all species, so they forgot that the covida virus is certainly not lurking on the Vinternet and that leaving e-consultation open for a longer period of time can get more useful comments than the ones these laws will apply to tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11312	Thank you, too. Now it is up to a respected colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11313	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, we're talking about the Rules of Procedure, the basic document that determines the work of HS, which has to be changed in view of this situation. However, what I would like to point out here is that the Croatian public also knows that the chairman and the ruling know, every parliament, every assembly, of course, and HS, is a place of political struggle, a place where, where you may not even always talk about the measure, and that you try and gain sympathy with your voting body. And so it's everywhere in the world. It is also the case in the UK, which is in England where, where, with the longest tradition of parliamentaryism, it is so in all the countries of Europe and should be in Croatia. Anyone who tries to reduce the role of MPs in HS, the role of this most important home in the Croatian people, is wrong, it actually works directly against democracy. As for these concrete measures to sit in these halls, come on, that's one solution that's, at the moment, the best possible. Although I will dare and say that we could still increase the number of MPs in the assembly, it means in this main hall because if, when I remember that lockdown and the return after the lockdown to the assembly, then we were more in the assembly. Wrong, I don't know if there were 10 or more of us today, but there were more of us. So at a time when there was the greatest fear of the crown crisis, when we didn't know what, who, what we were facing, we had milder measures in the assembly. And with that going on and I'm going to say that sitting around isn't exactly geometric, somewhere we have a little bit more of that stuff, somewhere it's a little bit wider, so I'd be there, since we have masks still increased by a minimum of 10 people so I can always attend the assembly. And I'll conclude, you wouldn't be longer. So let the ruling and opposition always bear in mind that it is the most important home of the Croatian people, the most important political body, that is HS. I also like to call it the Croatian National Assembly. And that this is where other than the measure and discussion of the laws themselves and the political messages are sent. Sometimes it comes out of the box, but that's how it is in most democracies, as well as in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11314	Let's move on with the debates. Now, let me see, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's a second, thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11315	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here after all these discussions, I would first of all like to emphasise once again and remind us all that we are really living and working in special circumstances of the covid crisis and that what we have done, especially in the third month of the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure, was not the goal nor of restricting the right of speech, nor of any other restriction, but was the aim primarily of protecting all MPs, the protection of their health, and the protection of people who work here in HS. So, I'd like to keep that in mind and not twist the facts. I would also like to emphasise when we brought these first amendments to the Rules of Procedure to bring them unanimously to the Committee on the Constitution. Let us all remember that at that time we were all quite insecure about the consequences of the covid crisis on the lives and work of all of us, that we didn't know exactly what we were facing and that we reached out to the things we thought at that moment were justified and the best possible way to further maintain the work of the assembly. However, in view of the current circumstances, we are here today in front of this new amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, since both our colleague and our colleague, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, have highlighted the decision of the Constitutional Court. 293, which, at the time of the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure, is subject to the conditions of working in particular, the work of parliaments under the special conditions of the covid crisis or any other epidemic, we have now approached these other amendments on the occasion of that decision. The primary objective of this change is, above all, to allow the presence of all MPs at the assembly meeting not only, so by holding or attending a session in this assembly, but also in other rooms within the assembly building. Therefore, the basic argument in the very reasoning of the Constitutional Court’s decision was that the rotation of MPs as we had foreseen in the first amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure did not allow all MPs at the same time to participate in the discussion of replication, as the Constitutional Court considered that it was not proportionate to the conditions which should be allowed for all to have this possibility in view of the consequences which, due to which the amendments and adopted. Thus, it is believed that it can still be possible to enable the assembly to work in a way that is not at the heart of everyone's participation in the debate and that this can be organised in this way, so we have made changes and additions and regulations. The amendments would also allow for the participation of those representatives who, because of themselves, are sick because of Covid, cannot participate in the work of the assembly because they are in self-insulation or isolation, to allow them not only to vote but also to participate in the debate and replication through the video conference. Here, I think we have thus shown that in these few months, however, we have all adapted ourselves more or less to life in these special conditions, that we have found the possibility that in a different and better way to approach the work of the assembly. As regards the other amendments set out in this proposal, I think it is also important to say that if the situation arises, that none of the vice-presidents and nor the president can chair the meeting of the assembly, the president shall be able to vote by his decision as representatives of the parliamentary minority and in accordance with Article 32. Rules of Procedure. It is also predicted that the decision to start and end this special way of working the assembly as it has been so far has been made by the Bureau of Parliament. I think that's good because actually this decision is a more declarative nature, because it's actually made only after according to the special law and are established, the entry of special conditions of the epidemic in the country itself is established. So it seems to me that there really isn't a need here today to call on certain MPs for how the ruling majority's goal in the adoption of the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure was to limit the right to vote, to limit the ability of speech to the opposition's representatives because it really wasn't. Once again, I would like to emphasise these first amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, we have brought the Rules of Procedure unanimously, and even before this Constitutional Court decision, as the motionor or president of the Committee on the Constitution has said, we have discussed on the Committee on the Constitution how it would really approach the amendments of the Rules of Procedure in a way that allows all MPs to participate and, above all, replication. So there is no talk of non-transparentity either because we have conducted the whole procedure and the first changes transparently as is foreseen on the committee itself, the media were present, and the whole procedure was carried out as it was prescribed now. And during the talks, the board president called on all clubs to deliver their proposals to the Constitution Committee and I think that in the debate on the board we really talked very democratically, we respected all those proposals that were good. However, there were also proposals concerning not only changes in this way, a special way of working under these special conditions, and for this reason we did not respect them on the board. I would point out that all together should bear in mind that, above all, the objective of these amendments is to amend this article, which regulates a special way of working in these special epidemiological conditions. All other needs for amending the Rules of Procedure require one longer procedure. So I think that they are actually the subject of some other amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and that at this point it would not be desirable for us to resort to it for reasons that we could not bring such an urgent amendment to this article which allows us to work under these special conditions, and as the Proposer has said, we are already doing, in fact, according to what we are about to impose on these amendments, because it is Article 293a itself. The decision of the Constitutional Court must be abolished and we must regulate it as soon as possible, and therefore the urgency of this procedure is justified. Here, the HDZ Club will support these changes and additions because we believe that above all they provide a safe way of working for all of us. As for the restriction and the duration of the debate itself, I believe that this restriction is justified, and when we bring the Rules of Procedure ourselves, we prescribe how long the debate will take, how long the replicas will last, so there is no limit to anything for any other reason than for the reason that all this expensive time, the time overall shorter, so that we will all be more protected, we will not spend too much time in the same place, the same us, the greater number of representatives, and in such a way that we do not endanger each other's health. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to stress once again that we will accept these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11316	Thank you very much. He will now speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Tomislav Tomasevic, just a second to wipe out the pay phone. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11317	Thank you, Chairman, i.e. President of the Parliament. Thank you and the congregation services that help us in our work, and this kind of wipeout of the pay phone every day, every time behind every speaker. And thank you all here from the Assembly staff who are in these halls and are watching and helping MPs if they rise up. We know that these are such challenging times and that everyone should make a contribution that somehow this Parliament works in these challenging times. I didn't want to, I didn't mean to go back in time, but since a colleague from the HDZ Club went back a little bit, then I would still come back a little bit. I will not enter the motives why in the spring the Rules of Procedure was amended as amended, we were not then in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that that's when we think this is going to take a little longer than it's going to last, and you can't even see the end of this epidemic and this crisis. However, in any case, we had a good will to change that. When we saw how it worked and at that time we felt that it was not in accordance with the Constitution, we sent a proposal after a session of the Presidency which was also a relatively constructive debate before some, there in early September, however, from the proposal of our letter which went a week after the Presidency to the Constitutional Court's decision went more than a month. So, and that proposal was more or less the same as we have now. So, if that had been resolved earlier, the Constitutional Court would not have been able to make a decision to be able to undo this whole article. In 293a, we would not have to work in accordance with the article of the Rules of Procedure that we have not yet adopted. But, okay, so if we see that some things don't go this way, then we're glad that the Constitutional Court gave us the right, regardless of what the Constitutional Committee found to be. In accordance with the Constitution, 293a of the Rules of Procedure, the majority voted against the opposition when it established an opinion on the basis of a request from the Constitutional Court. But there's no need, I don't want to go back in time. What is after that, after that decision of the Constitutional Court, when the Article is abolished. 293a were three options as well as the President of the Parliament said them and so the option was to go to another hall outside the Parliament which was larger, the second option was to take this equipment, so the teleconference appears and replicates from other halls and the third option is to use other halls, however, to replicate here in this hall and to be and that is definitely the cheapest option in terms of renting other halls outside the Parliament. It's the cheapest option in terms of the equipment needed and it's the same option our club has advocated since the beginning. So it's been there since the beginning of September, and I'm glad we're going that way. Now in that sense we are also rational and we think that we should use Parliament resources rationally and I can say immediately, and I would like to mention the same, as the Constitutional Committee said, as the Proposer also supported this Article 293.b, so it was unanimously adopted. We have some other things we're going to suggest in the amendment to fix, but it doesn't mean we didn't vote for this article. Now, as far as these practical things are concerned, I would only say it at first before we talk a little bit about our amendment is that we are rational and we want Parliament resources to be used rationally and in this sense it seems to me that it might be more rational in view of the professional services of the Parliament that have to sit in these halls, on this side where the opposition is, and now I don't know what the situation is in the hall where the majority is, but here there are several halls, meaning "red salon", "yellow salon", i.e. "Blue Salon" and "Ante Starcevic", and then that common hall "Ban Jelačić", seems to me, however, since chairs are arranged in clubs, and in order for everyone to have their place, precisely know where that place is, I think that perhaps, of course, those chairs should stay that way because they will also be used for voting, there is no sense that once a week or once every two weeks for moving, but it seems to me that we should go to a situation to fill the hall in the hall. So because they're now marked by clubs, but there's nothing to use that they're marked by clubs. For the vote anyway, we are voting on that hand-lifting thing, we have no record of who voted on the laws, so from that perspective maybe whoever comes, fills the hall, say the opposition "red salon", so that even professional services sits only in the "red salon" and see if anyone raises a replica, and not that there is a professional service in the "red salon" for one person, and then in the hall "Ante Starcevic" for another person, etc., so I think that's how things work, so obviously that's how things work, and I think that we need to adapt to the situation now when we see it going, especially in the afternoon, that there's just a few representatives in one hall, a couple of MPs in the other, and a couple in the third, and for each hall there have to be two or three persons from the professional service, I don't think it makes sense. So maybe we should go to the gym. The "Red Salon" when filled, then to go to the "yellow room", i.e. "Blue" and then going to the "Ante Starcevic" hall afterwards and then going to the "Ban Jelačić" hall, I am talking about the debate, not the vote, when the vote is clear that it will then be filled almost everything, in fact all the halls will be filled, so that 151 MPs can vote. So the chairs stay in their seats, just instead of having to sit down because here, our Green-Left Block Club has 5 chairs in the "Ante Starcevic" hall, so we can't sit in a "red salon" and that's why, I say, professional services should be deployed to several halls, and then these professional services don't do any other jobs that they've normally done so far, and I think we can use it more rationally. Here, that's some constructive proposal on our part, so think about it. And this in any case satisfies the Constitutional Court's decision, but we're looking at the same way we can actually make it more optimal. As far as the amendments to our amendments are concerned, we will agree with the amendment that although this colleague from the HDZ Club said that the presidency is going to decide on this special regime of work, we think it would be more legitimate and transparent that this decision is made by HS and most of the representatives of HS are also possible because of the epidemiological sides that it has certain advantages. I also believe that the regime would be considered periodically, rather than to remain unsupervised. that we do not know how long this special regime will last but to periodically check whether the circumstances that have led to the introduction of the special regime are still in force. Then, and I have to say the same to be fair that some things are also adopted to us as an example of being fair to a government representative when he's not a proposing, since we've cut everybody's time short, so on behalf of the clubs we've shortened the time and representatives in individual debate so that then the time and the government's representative when he's not a proposing, it's also accepted by the Committee on the Constitution, so he's now in this integral text. We believe that working bodies' sessions would be now also formulations that could be maintained by electronic means. However, that they can also be transmitted means by electronic means via the Internet. We believe that all working bodies' sessions should actually be transmitted via the Internet so that the public can be interested, that journalists can monitor all meetings of the working bodies or committees. Why? Because if we want to reduce the epidemiological risks, then it's not good for journalists to come to meetings from that perspective just to get information about what happened at the board's meeting, but to be able to do so through the Internet and them and all the interested public, all citizens follow how it works on committees. On the other hand, we think that this is a good thing and so that committees begin to gain the importance they should have in each Parliament, and in HS, in our opinion, do not have enough importance. It means being followed by the public debate on committees because we believe that this will raise the quality of the debate on committees and the involvement of the representatives themselves if, if these discussions are in some way media-translated or on the internet for journalists and all others. I also believe that the thematic sessions must be held, and power should also be maintained by electronic means. I also believe that the thematic sessions of the working bodies should be held and held outside the assembly building because of their nature that external experts are coming to them, and because of that, we understand that they have been suspended, however, they could be organised both outside the assembly building and in such a way that Parliament still has thematic sessions with external experts. We also think that the issue of voting trails for every MP that currently does not exist should be resolved, he has been suspended from, from spring by this special regime. It's going in some technical direction, we still insist on getting rid of it as soon as possible. I still have a lot of natural things to talk about working on and amending the Rules of Procedure which do not concern this particular work for an epidemic related to the appointment of committee meetings establishing committee sessions and depositing signatures, but about that some other time. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11318	Thank you. We're going to the 7th debate now, it's a party representative with a name and name, Smart and Glass. Thank you again. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11319	Thank you to the chairman, the distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. The topic we are discussing today is the draft Rules of Procedure on the amendment which is in line with what the Constitutional Court has said, on the proposal of that part of the opposition, a new opposition that is very much considering the quality of the procedure that is being implemented in this HS so that this body will play that role, the importance and purpose of the prescribed and imagined in the Croatian Constitution. We should not approach the provisions of the Rules of Procedure lightly and we should not lightly allow practice in which the two largest parliamentary parties agree to actually seize the most, I will say so, political attention and prey. In order to focus primarily on what are the very provisions of the Rules of Procedures that we are discussing today, I will say that our club will put a few amendments on it. It's the first one. 2., in the added article. 293. We propose that the Rules of Procedure of Article 2 be amended and that it reads: "Decisions on the initiation and termination of the special way of working of the assembly in the case of St. 1 of that article on the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are discussed and decided by the Assembly, and not by the Bureau." I will explain why we are putting such an amendment. The decision on a special mode of work of the assembly has a significant impact and limits the work of the assembly or parliamentary representatives. In view of the difficulties in attending the plenary session, the reduction of the time available for discussion by the individual representative, and the other restrictions introduced, this is not a decision which the Bureau of Parliament alone can make and only inform the representatives of it. Any decision significantly restricting the established rights of parliamentary representatives in the performance of their basic duties shall be discussed at the plenary session in accordance with Article. 82. The Republic of Croatia has to hold a vote on it. Furthermore, beyond Article 2(2) added. 293.b. We propose to add a new paragraph, which reads: ‘the decision referred to in Article 2 of this Article may be made with a period of validity of up to 6 months from the date of entry into force of that Decision’. I will explain: The decision on a special way of working a meeting that changes and restricts the work of parliamentary deputies cannot be made with an unlimited period of validity. After 6 months of entry into force of the decision, it shall automatically cease to apply and, if necessary, the HS may re-trial and vote on the possible extension of the validity of this decision. And considering I've got a little time left. I'd like to point out another fact that is particularly disturbing to me as a lawyer. There is hardly any provision of a Rules of Procedure that cannot be said of anything. The essence of democracy is valid procedures, valid procedures in this Rules of Procedure, or it does not or does not distort them, mutilated and invalidated the established practice of agreeing and negotiating in the halls or in some other places testifying to the way in which and before the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament itself was held, it formed numerous if not all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Maybe it wasn't filled in all the places, but the key was anyway. This is not how we protect democracy and promote the values that the Croatian Parliament should protect, it is not a way to choose the person most in this role. Also, I would like to say that many rules, many institutes, are a number of provisions of the current Rules of Procedure, are nomtechnically inappropriate and this does not serve this Croatian Assembly as an honor, and some simply overrun time. I think that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system should approach the extensive amendments of the Rules of Procedure and give it a modern, modern, progressive meaning, and I will refer only to two provisions at this time to stress how much we do not really think about what this important document says very often. Article 17 shall bear the title Privacy of the data, and in paragraph 1, it shall say: Representatives shall keep the information they learn in the conduct of the agent's duties, which shall bear the mark of secrecy in accordance with the law, and shall be responsible for that in accordance with the law. I don't mind. However, paragraph 2 says: The Assembly may adopt a code on the ethical action of legislators. My question is, why is it that a provision that says the Assembly can pass the Code of Ethical Action of Representatives falls as some footnote in Article 17 that speaks of the confidentiality of information. Well, it is clear what Greco wanted to say when he warned him in 2014, his colleague Bosnjakovic, the Croatian Parliament, that it should adopt the Code of Conduct of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and what provisions are those which are institutes that should be found in such an act. These are the rules on self-exemption when it comes to some issues that are personally concerned by individual MPs, to declaring situations that may be controversial with the lobbying position, these are the declaration of gifts and a whole series of other institutes. Some issues of solution are in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but none of these ethical provisions and ethical dilemmas have anything to ask under the norm that defines the obligation to respect the secrecy of data. Furthermore, when we talk about the acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, for example in Article 159, we say the following, therefore, the Assembly on the basis of the rights and powers established by the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure, adopts the Constitution, constitutional laws, laws, laws, etc. Legislators, my question is, when did this body last pass a single code, is there any, any code currently in force? Fellow MPs and MPs, I ask you nicely to approach the creation of a new Rules of Procedure in such a way as to bring its provisions in line with what the Croatian Parliament should do in a way that opens the door to quality people, in quality places and that we all work together to make the work of this body and the quality of the law that this body brings one better meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11320	If I'm not mistaken, we have the Maritime Code probably, yeah, okay. We've come to an end with club debates, now we're going to individual debates. First order of business will be a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11321	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, so we're living an unusual time. I do not agree to say that this is new to normal because I think this is just one unusual time where we are currently living and from which we will try in the best possible way to get out. In doing so not so, not long ago this spring when the topic of lockdown started you well know who we were in that assembly meeting that the assembly had decided to work. So, during the lockdown we worked in Ina's building, I was one of those who advocated working for a simple reason to show the message that regardless of all this Parliament's working together, we worked under unusual conditions and under the conditions we have to say this provision of the law, this provision of the Rules of Procedure. And that provision of the Rules of Procedure tried to adapt the work of the assembly and define a new, new provision. In the view of the Constitutional Court, and this has been warned by many constitutional experts, the solution that has been applied was excessively strict and limited by the representatives in the exercise of their fundamental duties, which is that they speak and have an uninterrupted right and the possibility to participate in the debates. Perhaps I should remind you, this assembly has been working all night. He worked there all night when the Rules of Procedure changed to point out that what was the role of Parliamentarians to speak then, of course, we opposed that option because we got that every MP could have three replicas, but what was there. The constraint of representatives in their primary work can really be neither justified nor restricted, and in that sense the Constitutional Court's decision was expected and understandable and I have no idea that someone considers it wrong and tries to dispute it. The new proposal of the Rules of Procedure actually puts on paper what we have already started to implement, which is why we are already implementing it, which is that MPs can also sit in other halls, that they are connected with video and audio link, that they can replicate, that they can call on the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and do all that is part of the participation in the session of the Parliament in the full sense. However, the problem we have been facing for months actually longer, but in recent months, it has been a very good attempt to put HS in the donkey bench. Try not to make the Assembly the most legislative body in which directly elected representatives of citizens sit. It restricts the work of the Parliament and is carried out in various ways. Some are less visible, such as the various new provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which shorten, reduce, limit, and put into a tighter and tighter belt. Some are, however, I would say very problematic, such as bypassing the parliament in making decisions that directly and fatefully affect the citizens of this country, their rights and freedoms. Corona's cover proved to be a perfect opportunity for the government to assist the HDZ-based parliamentary majority, who is keeping it quiet in order including representatives of minorities and parties of the liberal centre, as the prime minister likes to point out, completely bypassing the Parliament's decision making for people such as limiting movement, gathering and working to the entire sectors of the economy, which is even worse, neither the government nor formally, although the prime minister himself said that everything goes through his office. The decisions made by the Civil Protection Staff, I must warn again, and I will warn all the time that it simply cannot work that way. All restrictions on the constitution of guaranteed rights and the freedom of citizens must pass the procedure in the Parliament. They cannot be decided by either the headquarters or the Prime Minister's Office, who at the same time claims that he is both directing and overseeing the headquarters. The whole problem we are constantly warning is that this is not a way of working in line with the democratic state and the rule of law. A colleague of Oreskovic also said something about two amendments that we are going to make simply think that decisions must be made by the Parliament by their majority, and that this decision is that we have one restriction indeed must pass this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11322	Thank you very much. Stay, we've got replicas. The first is Honorable colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11323	Thank you. My colleagues, Mrak Taritas, you said you were talking about limiting the work of Parliament employees by heating up one entirely wrong thesis that the core of the duties and work of MPs is at plenary sessions. It's a mantra that heats up all the time in both the media and here, and avoids saying that when we're on plenary sessions, the least we do is work or we should work on working committees. So this whole speech-restriction story is simply on the wrong grounds. If you look at the statistics of democratic countries then you'll see that the most democratic countries usually have only one week of plenary sessions a month, and we have four.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11324	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11325	Thank you very much. Mr. Tudjman, when we were discussing lockdown, then there was also the former President of the Parliament who was now looking a little at the experiences of other European countries' parliaments and we decided to work, but we are talking about the work of Parliamentarians. There are parliamentary representatives working on committees, there are parliamentary representatives who are at the plenary session, and they discuss what is individual, which is on behalf of clubs, and there are parliamentary representatives who just come to the vote. In the former assembly, I often asked at the vote, and that was because it was the person I first saw at the vote. I can see that even in this sabra thing, it hasn't changed much, not just because we wear masks, but there really are colleagues who only come to the polls, and that's something you might be able to discuss at your club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11326	Second replica, dear colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Mrak Taritash, we can talk about how parliaments organise their work and I would not have understood every restriction in terms of time and the like as a necessary and constraint of representatives to work, unfortunately I cannot now elaborate in the replica, so I will say something about it in an individual debate. But what I would like to refer to is when you talked about limiting the rights and freedom of individuals. I agree with you, and absolutely there I want to support that this must be done by HS as the most political body in the Republic of Croatia, by the fact that the body that brings this to the Civil Protection Staff has seen the time we have only discredited it that it is not an independent and professional body, but it is both politically conditional and politically affected body, let's say so. So, the most recent example I think is that one member of the great expert is now sitting as the representative of a political party right here in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11329	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic when the crown started, so he talks to the crown, and when we were in lockdown ignorance and fear were great drivers, so we were all scared from tomorrow, we were all afraid that when we were 70, the number of 70 was already in our head. Now as the headquarters said at one point, we're dancing with a situation where we have a coronary virus or covid-19 and it's very logical that we're still discussing a series of things. We discussed it back then. Remember all those bans that were moving, even within one county, I need to remind you of that idea that was really cut down in roots and that it's a good thing that you can track someone's cell phones. So, fear company can breed into other things. History is a teacher of life, so we know what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11330	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Before that, I'd just like to ask the lady to clean up our pay phone. He is now in the debate, the esteemed representative, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11331	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the time I would have been suggested only a few additions to this agreed already working regime of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I think it should be complemented here with the fact that there should be an obligation of the entire government of all those ministers who are not addressed questions to sit here in the assembly. I don't think there is any need for this, but for the Prime Minister to be present and those ministers to whom the questions are addressed, or those which the minister may think he will need when answering questions. Secondly, I think that we should also agree that that item, that form after the presentation of clubs, individual debates, and finally to end this in particular in these circumstances, is it finally imagined that clubs should be declared if, in the meantime, after discussing their views and their opinions, this is the final use of hearing again what individuals have said in their discussions. The third thing for which it is not necessary to change the Rules of Procedure, but for epidemiological reasons, for organisational reasons, for reasons of common sense, it would simply be necessary what is now and what if we want to be honest working on committees is simply a reform. Rarely when discussed on committees, committees are held during plenary, plenary sessions, and for these I don't know 8, 9 years as far as I'm concerned, I don't know how many times this committee has lasted for more than an hour, and in 4, 5 committees, each of us is on 4.5 committees. So I think it would be rational, especially if in these circumstances when the halls are filled because of this accommodation we have, we don't have enough halls to organize the work of the assembly to be organised every other week, left to work on boards, and then to hold plenary sessions afterwards. I think there's plenty of reason for that. From this perspective when people are calling for restrictions on the right of speech, on democracy, etc., then they need to be a little more serious and look at statistics or how these parliaments are organised where Croatia belongs in the EU. Most countries have only between 40 and 70 plenary sessions a year, which means one week a month, from Monday to Friday is a plenary session, from Slovenia to Germany or the EU, so look at how it goes. On the other hand, do you know, but we should all know that we in the Croatian Parliament have representatives of 23 different parties. There is no such thing in, neither in France, nor in Germany, nor I know where, which are far larger parliaments.../incomprehensible/... we are the country that has the most clubs because in, according to our Rules of Procedure, it is possible to form a club that 3 representatives can form a club. This is still possible only in Montenegro and Slovenia, which have 80 and 90 MPs, respectively. Where else is the census 5, 7 or more MPs to form a club. Therefore, there are a number of reasons and democratic solutions that need to be changed to this Rules of Procedure, this should be accepted in the light of the circumstances, but go to the Rules of Procedure to become a real working body in which laws will be seriously discussed, discussed in, on working bodies where this is the primary place and where the most bodies formed are from people who, most of all, know about these areas. Therefore, my proposal and the conspiracy would be to get into this Rules of Procedure as soon as possible. In accordance with the experiences of the most democratic countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11332	Thank you very much. Stay here, please, because you have two replicas. He's the first fellow Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11333	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Tudjman, here I am in politics for three months and I must say as a man who really comes from the people and a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Maritime Affairs I agree with you in the fact that there is not enough work on the parliamentary committees. I took part in a session of that Assembly Committee where there was a report by the State Audit Office on the operation of port administrations where the State Audit Office expressed a negative opinion on business, but since you and your party are in all parliamentary committees in most of this has passed. So the State Audit Office has brought a negative report on business, and your majority voted positively on it. So I'm asking you to give us a little bit of, here's to us regular people how it's possible to use most of them and to admit or miss something that's wrong and where many irregularities have been observed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11334	Thank you very much. Just before you responded to the replica of your colleague Bačić, there was an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11335	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Dretar, not accepting the State Audit Office's report does not talk about the scale of the port administration's work, we would say by not accepting that report that the state's office worked badly, not the port administration. So here you are completely wrong and in this way you deceive the public, deceive the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11336	Okay, it makes sense so I won't intervene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11337	As far as this is concerned, I can't answer this question because I wasn't on the board, and I don't know what it's about, but in principle speaking, working on committees allows for a dialogue to really be conducted, one debate can't be replicated only once or three times in total, but a debate is being held for days, hours and days to crystallise attitudes. So it's that experience that has the most democratic countries or countries with a long democratic transition, and I don't see any reason why we don't start acting in that pattern either.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11338	And another replica, fellow Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11339	So I'm trying to understand what you wanted to say, Mr. Tudjman, calling for more work on committees, and less on plenary sessions in that part that we have more time to discuss these acts that are coming to us, but you yourself are aware that in these circumstances each committee has its limits and in principle that it is trying to adapt both time and matter. So he would never agree that the number of plenary sessions should be reduced for the purpose of this committee’s functioning. Plenary sessions are our mirror in front of the Croatian public, they should be even more. I encourage the President and the Bureau of Parliament to continue to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11341	We're not here to promote ourselves to the public, we're here to pass quality laws. We can make the laws quality if we debate them thoroughly, discreetly, and rationally. The form of plenary sessions makes it impossible. You've just told me something, I've answered you and you have no way of answering me for what I said, but on the working body it's possible. Therefore, I see no reason why we could not act as the majority of democratic countries but we have the largest number of parties or among the largest number of parliaments that have the most parties, the largest number of clubs and we have one practice that disproportionate to its political strength MPs frequently appear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11342	Thank you. Now we're going to wipe out the pay phone and after that there's a debate going on between fellow Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11343	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. In order to make a contribution to this debate, I will now have a part of the thesis of some of the thinking that I have prepared before, in fact I will not repeat them because they have been spoken, they have been spoken recently before me. Here I am glad to hear from Mr. Tudjman's representative that he also thinks that working on boards is our experience, us who are new to the Parliament, that he is indeed a formal very, very, very pro-forma. One of the things that wasn't talked about here right now, and actually, I'm going to go through it and explain how it manifests on committees. The famous deposit of votes is completely something that I cannot agree with the MP coming or calling the president, the chairman of the board, and that he knows in advance how to vote. So why even the debate, which is why now we're going to have outside board members on committees, which is why they're even coming? What about what we really have to fight for for the thematic committee sessions? I actually see at this point the two fundamental interests which in this sense are conflicting, and that is the interest of the representatives who really want and in the interest of those who have chosen us here in the parliamentary body, it means that we attend other committee meetings where we may not even be members, but we can't because, as you know, there are two committee meetings, two committees parallelly and at the time of the plenary session. I even talked about it, but I just wanted to remind you of this. Another interest is a large number of mayors, commissioners, mayors, mayors who, of course, have an interest that they are still as executive authority in their cities and in their municipalities to be there for a large part of the week, and then here by force opportunity come into that danger to simply use this stage as an opportunity for some extra PR for the promotion itself, exactly like that. And I think that first of all by strutting, that's the thing that should also be explained to me, I'm lucky that really the Agriculture Committee had five sessions, the Information, Information and Media Committee had one session. It's not clear to me that one of these important committees has nothing to talk about, it's not clear to me, but that all these committees should be streamanes, it seems too obvious to me. I don't understand why our first session was a streamana, the fourth was a streamana, who made decisions, I talked about it with representatives of other committees who told me that also most HDZ on some committees and raised their hands and said there's no stratification. And almost even if the president is opposition, she can't lead to strepification. I think it's going to work out anyway if we take care of it with the Rules of Procedure. That I really agree that the real debate can and is in the interest of both us and those who chose us. It is in the interest of society that this debate should be that we really present the reasons, to explain them, not to go further into the meaning of the roots of our words that very precisely explain it. And then at that point, we're going to get close to not having such a bad public rating anymore, that we have that two all the time, that we really are really, really getting enough. It would be good if at least for the term of office of this assembly we could get to some solid three.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11344	Thank you. You have several replicas, the first colleague of Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11345	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you have now said that you believe that if the committee sessions were to be transferred to make it a better debate. I believe that each of us MPs depends on what the debate will be on the board, either here at the plenary session. No one, not according to the current regulations of the Rules of Procedure, is stopping us from arguing at board meetings. It depends on each of us, and on the work of the board, on how the session is conducted, of course, the president who leads it in the way he considers it best, but all the board members have the opportunity to prepare for the debate, discuss it at the session and no one makes it impossible for them. As for voting and depositing votes, I don't think it's possible for anyone to do it right now, to say on the phone I can't come and deposit a voice but must appear at the beginning of the session And that's kind of a quiet rule. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11347	That's exactly what I'm talking about. First, I'm going to tell you about the vote being deposited. If what bothers me the most, if at the same time the committee on which I am a member of the board, and the committee that I am very interested in, say, let's say, the Committee on Culture, which I am not a member of, because we have a stronger member, given that it is the Committee on Education and Culture, we have a colleague, the former Dean, a professor at the PMF who, of course, is on that board. But I don't have a chance if there's an important topic here at the plenary session, and at the same time it's agreed that the mayors decided so and they come to the first part of the session, depositing the voice formally, parallel to two committees, you understand that it's simply an impossible mission. That is why it is necessary to abolish this right to deposit signatures and then there will be no of these parallel committee sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11348	Comrade Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11349	Thank you. Dear Representative here, we agree with the conclusion that the Committees are a reform, but we need to understand that this way of organising the work of the assembly leads us to the fact that the committees have become a reform. You said yourself, we have 30 working bodies, we have plenary sessions every week, it's impossible to organise it so that the board takes a few hours and there's no overlapping. Therefore, we need to go after those solutions to release the week when there will be only committees, and plenary sessions free of these, so that during the plenary session the working bodies do not hold meetings. It's the essence of things. Also what you're saying about depositing votes, it's just that people have to be in a few places, not Because of some evil, and not to say what they've been told, what's the matter with you? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11350	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11351	I'm thanking you for this replica, though, yes, here's what I totally agree with, I can imagine maybe it's just a week's work committee, I don't know maybe we'll go through practice and see. If we're working on committees for two weeks, and if we're working on Mondays until Fridays, maybe that Friday is a little longer if it's not just a vote, we'll see, but if we're working on a plenary session all week, then we can make up for it, so we have two weeks to work on boards, and I'm sure that this paper will be deeper and more quality, and I didn't claim that just shooting increases the quality of work, I don't agree with you. No, I'm just talking about stakeholders who are lobbying at some point and who really care about what we're talking about, so that it's good for them to follow the right debate and that they can also text and talk to us at some point about what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11352	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11353	So I'll say again that working us on committees depends on how much we're prepared, how much interest we've invested. What you fellow Matulata are saying is these are technical details. Our professional services can easily and already work together to ensure that different committees are at different times, not all at the same time. On the other hand, it is absolutely and invaluable that plenary sessions work, and we on board are still a B-set. The committees serve what they serve if we prepare ourselves well and discussions can not only be on boards but they can also be on board through other forms of political action. However, it is invaluable and unforgivable, you must not put at all a position in order for the meetings, the plenary session of the Parliament, to come in second, because they are the essence of this democracy. Let everyone see here, the Croatian people see to the greatest extent who stands for it, how professional it is. What are their goals? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unlike the committee where the others are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] questions. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Sacic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11355	That's exactly what I said. If we have two and a half days a week of plenary session, and if we suggest that two weeks be five days to work in a plenary session then there will be far more time here and it will not be questioned at all. However, I talked to you because we were really interested and we talked to colleagues, you who have longer experience and people who have worked here and in the services for a long time and who remember the time when the committees talked for quite a long time, the topics and some parts of the law have been piling up for hours, and where at that point, if you weren't the expert you cared about here, you went and consulted, so you went back to the debate, that means getting the law well prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11356	Let's go to the fourth line now, Comrade Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11357	Thank you. Although your basic presentation focused a little on these committees, the committee's relationship, the plenary session, etc., I would return to what you mentioned, the "strike" session of the board. So, I don't know if you're familiar with it, but I didn't know until a few days ago, that HS has a Regulation on the public work of the Croatian Parliament and of the working bodies that was adopted on 20 May 2005, yet, President in power I think. So in 2005, there was no "streaming", Youtube and this became popular sometime after that, this, was this internet, Internet TV HS, but not like Youtube channel, and there was no committees. This is now the first time that some committee sessions are being put on the Internet, but it would be good to focus on then on the HS's Public Labour Regulation that it is a little, as Croatia puts it, a refresher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11358	Thank you. It seems to me that we are going towards discussing the new Rules of Procedure, and we personally like these proposals, and I think that both colleague Tudjman and colleague Matula and now colleague Bauk are going to step up the work of the board, to better discuss ourselves on committees, to create perhaps a different structure and plenary session, absolutely for me. We are looking for common solutions that will optimally show the representation of individual parties, but also give room for more quality discussions. Thank you. Here you go. Here's a little bit, and I added it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11359	Of course, yes, yes, yes, yes. Thank you. Now, I mean, I'm glad that there's one common political will in one direction that I really don't think is burdened with ideology or worldview. And as for technical progress and the fact that technology is progressing so quickly and that we have really fantastic IT experts with us and that this is an opportunity to, I am convinced that we can get additional funds from the EU, we can help that experts in machine learning, what they call, mean machine learning computers and help us with our experts doing so. England is quite well done, but also for the Germans, for the French, for the others, to help us make it for the Croatian language, and then in Bosnia and Herzegovina we will also be able to use it to translate these here, that the computer works, that we get a transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11360	Thank you. Now it's time for a colleague, Mariana Petyr. Comrade Matul, it's not over yet. Comrade Matul, you still have one, don't, don't yet. My colleague Petyr is there, she's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11361	Here I am because I had to run because I'm sitting down in the hall, the little council, so I haven't been able to hear until the end of your debate in order to get a replica in time, so here, I believe we'll soon come up with a new amendment to the Rules of Procedure that will be complete and that will give us all equal chances and conditions. Listening to one part of your debate that I managed to catch, I talked to you about working on committees pro-form. I still wouldn't agree to this until the end, I agree that the role of the board should be strengthened and that I will give maximum support because I think it's crucial, but you are a member of the Committee on Agriculture that I chair and I think that the work of our committee is all but pro-forma. To try to appreciate all the thinking, gather expert opinions in these conditions epidemiologically when we are not allowed to organise thematic sessions and provide representatives with a broad range of knowledge and knowledge so that they can make measurement decisions. That we also accept the good suggestions that come from the opposition, we never make a difference there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11362	Thank you. Thank you. [[I'm running out of time.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11363	I thank the committee's representatives and presidents, but I did say, I guess I wasn't clear enough, I said that fortunately here we had thanks to you who were really agile in that sense, we had five sessions so far. I emphasized it, and unlike that, I'm a member of the Information and Information Committee, be careful with the information. It's the same board that's very important that could help inform the Parliament even though the experience we have with the people who are employed here is that they're top-notch people, they're top-notch people. That's not at all a question. So the only question I asked is that I really don't understand the president, the president, the president, decides how because they told me from other committees that somewhere where the president, the president, decides that he would "strength" or that he would come to... However, most... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that was just vague. But, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11365	I know I can't say anything right now, but I'll just say...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11366	My colleague Petyr. You have, you could have called for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11367	In all the halls there is no possibility of “streaming. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11368	No, no, well, technically. [[/Intruder: Mm-hmm.]] Thank you, Comrade Matula. So technically, I talked to our services about the “streaming ” committee. So you need to know that we don't have such opportunities to have a parallel of 5, 6 or 7, so when the three were at one point already it was technically an effort for the parliamentary services because at one point three committees were transferred last week or before last week. So there is will and good intentions, but that is why I think it is very important that we open up a debate on the new Rules of Procedure so that we can define all these conditions precisely and even the rules. I agree, it can't be that there can be a transfer somewhere, somewhere that can't be done by the president or the president, I think we have to have a unique standard. Comrade Bauk, what you said to the public of the work, that the problem is now that the journalists can't come, sometimes the journalists normally came now again is an epidemiological restriction and probably this now affects the lower arrival of journalists and cameras on board sessions. But I agree and once again, once we have finished this, when we have established a new Rules of Procedure with this amendment, which is related to the epidemiological situation to open the debate, we can form perhaps even one working group or assign a Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to start working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the direction of more efficient and quality work, of course. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11369	Thank you, Mr. President. When you mention goodwill, this is a school example of goodwill. We're acting by the rules we haven't brought up yet, we don't have any problems, if that's not a good will, then I really don't know what the definition of goodwill would be. So there were two troublesome things in that, no more than two, in that article. 293a, one for replicas, the other for thematic sessions, and in this article, there are no problematic provisions now defined if we do not interpret the formulation by electronic means that the sessions can be held in writing and by email, and I hope that is not how we do not interpret it. I was also thinking that perhaps a decision by the Bureau of Parliament that would be effective should be put into effect immediately at the plenary session without debate, but when I see that one part of this is increasing the rights of MPs and not reducing them, because the video conference has not been in any way possible so far, and there is no substantive or any other difference in the presentation of views, so that this special way of working the Parliament is not so special except for this provision on reducing the individual debate to five minutes, even increasing the rights. And is five minutes enough to make a statement after the board's session? Yeah, you need to practice a little more, but it's basically. I also agree with everything that has been said, and as far as letting the public see the work of the Parliament through the website or YouTub channel HS, then let the public who looks at us who has the nerve to do it or the one who only looks through the informational shows where the most important emphasis is put on doing so. Therefore, if there is any amendment that corrects the content of this article, I think I call on the ruling to think about it even if it comes from the opposition, but at this level as it is. 293.b formulated will allow as much normal work as possible if so many abnormal pandemic circumstances. Although I wasn't planning it, but Mrs. Oreshkovic's debate on behalf of the club motivated me to change my priorities in my individual presentation, so I have to say something, so I'd like to tell her a story about how the two big parties are doing nothing but think they'll not know what they'll do to Croatian parliamentaryism that it really deserved the epithet of dictation over the fate of Croatian Parliamentism. Therefore, the following, firstly, did not send this request for an assessment of the constitutionality, so-called. The new opposition, because without the signing of SDP MPs, would not be able to submit a request at all. Secondly, when we agreed before the Parliament was established, then we agreed on a committee for her club they took no matter what they were against. Third, without the list of that big party she mentioned, she couldn't have a club because she's a member of her club on her list. And fourthly, if she had worked for Jadrolini, she would have known there was a Naval Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11370	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to a respected colleague, Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11371	Here we have again the two largest parties, which is one great custom that repeats itself. However, I would be replicating the thesis that manipulation will no longer occur here because we now have a Rules of Procedure that is fixed and that will enable us to do so. I'll tell you how I've spent the last three days and why I wasn't in the assembly. So after I asked for Zoom's merger for self-evaluation to stay at home because of the child's temperature, I was allowed first to join Zoom in the session so that after a few hours, the Secretary of Parliament would ask me to get off with this Zoom because I don't have a self-insulation certificate. Confirmation of self-insulation once obtained, so you have to have 10 days in self-insulation. When you have a self-assessment situation, and at a time when 100 times a day we are warned that we should be responsible and that we should stay at home in the event of an assessment that we can be infected with the coronary virus, it is responsible behavior at that time if you go for the test, then of course you will get the test results 10 days ago. After the test was carried out, after it was confirmed that no one at home had a crown, and I came to the assembly with that certificate. So, first and foremost, I won't be accusing myself of manipulation, but it's obvious that any changes to the Rules of Procedure can be appropriate for manipulation because at the same time at zoom, it means parliamentary deputies who have also had no self-insulation certificate, and only I have been asked to disengage with the zoom. I'm not going to accuse it of manipulation, but it's obvious that this has to be defined by the Rules of Procedure. So one of my two amendments will be to define, that if you have a certain self-insulation you can connect over the zoom, but also if you only have an estimate that you want to stay at home because you're afraid that someone might have a crown or your host or you can also connect over the zoom. I understand that there are fears of manipulation that some MPs, MPs, will stay at home no matter what there is, what there is no condition for self-evaluation and no need to stay at home, but a much greater mistake in watching this distraughtly empty assembly that no one will actually be involved in the debate. Most MPs and MPs are only here to raise their hands, and one minority is here to say something. And people need to be enabled, so they can get rid of these manipulations that the Secretariat is obviously afraid of in a way that either the Secretariat assesses the need for self-insulation, but that it does so in writing, or that it simply meets people and trusts them and that they are allowed to self-evaluate their situation which is certainly much better than coming to the assembly, regardless of what we may suspect we should have stayed at home, but if we stay home, we have to look for self-insulation for 10 days and then we're not in the assembly. So that's one of the things I hope we'll fix in favor of those who want to discuss in this assembly. The other thing is about committees. So, I must say, it must be a good thing that the committees are stramming and that the public has insight into what is happening on our committees because my short experience of parliamentary policy shows that this will be a very interesting thing. The war veterans' committee I'm sitting in will be a bomb if what's said on that committee comes out, which is mostly counter-constitutional, and I look forward to the fact that the public will have insight into what's being said there. But the other thing, so if we're going to have a board meeting which I certainly welcome because every public participation is of course good for parliamentary work, we're here to represent the social majority, we're not here for self-promotion, but we have to be uncompromising so in representing those who chose us and those who chose us must have insight into what's going on there. It is also good that you can [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] and talk or engage in that committee. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11372	I didn't know about your case, so this is my first piece of information, you could talk to me as president of the assembly, one part of the MPs let me know that he's in self-insulation or that he's sick, one part not. But now that we come to self-evaluation it's really an area where there can be manipulation, it's clear to you, and we've also been told that those who are sick and who have self-insulation certificates will be able to appear with a video connection, this is how we enter a space that once again is one space where there can be free estimates, and that's why your party was one of those who went to the Constitutional Court to clearly define the rules. You understand me. So now you've been going there and here we have a situation now, I have to tell you this, so look at this, I see salons here, there's no one, there's 3, 5 people sitting there, so we could continue to work on that form and it would be very much like now, you asked to be by the book you're saying and that the Constitutional Court here says its opinion, he said we accepted it. Now, at the same time you're asking us to go to the trust, maybe I trust you, but I'm sure someone might abuse that, and then we'll get back in a situation where someone might complain and say if you see, you let him, you didn't let me. Be, be, be, I just want to tell you that under these conditions we can't absolutely prescribe everything because the situation is such that it's impossible to prescribe everything. [[Intruder: I can answer.]] And I'd like to ask you another time if these situations happen, and I'd like to know as meeting president, because I'd probably find a solution that would be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11373	I agree with you, but I have to tell you that this situation has happened and I think what you're saying means fear that people will use self-evaluation to manipulate the rest of the house at a time when they don't come to the assembly is less harmful to say that people come to the assembly because they don't want to stay in self-insulation for 10 days because they suspect they might be sick, but they also don't want to stay in self-insulation for 10 days because they assume they're not sick, you understand what I'm saying. I mean, I understand what can be drawn from this and that some will stay at home especially those who are not from Zagreb so they may not travel, but our mission is still a priority that as easily and technologically and otherwise we can discuss and we can participate. And what you're saying is our club is really true, but that's because our MPs and MPs participate as you see and sit in those halls that are really empty, so it's not us who create that impression that's really bad. People aren't very happy with what they see when they look at us, are they?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11374	Okay, okay, I'm sure we're heading towards a new Rules of Procedure, and we're going to have to leave some things to each other's trust and respect, and I believe that everyone still cares that we do better and better. Here's a colleague of the Sacic Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11375	Well, the replica is, I certainly agree with my colleague, Peovic, who says that we are parliamentary representatives chosen by our own, by our constituents, by our fellow Croatian public, who expects us to represent their interests in this sense that we must be visible in the Croatian public, either at a plenary session, or on boards, and on the other hand, this and this will certainly make a good solution always for the benefit of Croatian citizens. No, it's not just a promotion if someone's smart enough, professional enough, eloquent enough to defend the attitudes of their environment and the base that chose him. And on the other hand, I absolutely disagree, I think you blatantly slandered our Committee on War Veterans to work against the constitution, that's your personal position, that's your position which, yours, your parties, is ideologically what it is. However, keep in mind that you are only one of us on that committee and that the majority of you are not on that committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11376	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11377	I am done, so I am sure that most of the Croatian people do not share the attitude that you have and I am extremely happy and pleased that this public will have insight into the views that you have there. After the board, not only do we have non-transparent committee work where the records don't include what you're saying, and what's really counter-constitutional, but after the very session of the board, you and your colleague from your club are shooting a funny video where you make fun of members of that, with members of that board, you hit five and, and you send messages that are in general, so completely incorrect and contradictory, given what happened there and you send it to the public as information about the work of the board. I look forward to this practice ending with openness and transparency the work of that committee. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11378	Injury of my colleague Sacic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11379	I just wanted to say that my colleague insists that the War Veterans Committee violates the constitution and it's a rude slander and it's inadmissible here according to our 238. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11380	Okay, so you know that I always let people express their opinions and when I disagree with them because I believe that as parliamentary representatives we have the right since we are chosen by the people to express our views. If they are incorrect and are on the verge of what is unacceptable, we tolerate it simply. I don't know what this representative means, I can't, so I don't want to, and I don't want to, but you have an argument and try to prove you're right. Here you go, fellow Petyr. More, more, more, another... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11381	My colleague Peovic, you have pointed out that you are among those who have initiated this constitutional court decision where some provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been put out of force in order to achieve the equality of the MPs. I can see that you are here, but most of the colleagues who have participated with you are not in this activity, so I don't know why they don't consume that right now, which they've been working for so much, and by putting the Rules of Procedures off-force, you've put us in a position to run down the stairs all the time, us who are always in the sessions because we don't know how else to follow what you're saying and sign up for the replica. I know that the Committee on the Constitution and the President has done what they can under these circumstances, but the fact is that it would be at least correct and minimally polite for those who filed that constitutional suit to sit here when they were so committed to that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11382	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11383	Well, I think you've caught one of Petyr's colleagues, one in half an hour when we're not here. I mean really MPs and MPs on the left block are camping here. But what you're running around the assembly isn't my pleasure, but it's really not a result of the work and the pawning of the Green-left, green-left block club, but of the really technical things that have to be solved, and here I agree with you, so you don't run around the assembly to replicate something. I reacted, so at the session when the chairman took away my possibility of replicas precisely because I felt it was unacceptable that any representative and advocate and those clubs should not be arbitrary, so no clubs should arbitration which, after all, would, of course, happen, which representatives will be there, but we are all chosen regardless of the club and we must have the opportunity to speak here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11384	Thank you, we've come to an end, so let's now go to the next individual debate, the respected colleague Rade Simičević will speak, but first I just want to ask you to clean up the pay phone a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11385	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here I am going to stay really on this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Court has said its own, so the work of the assembly has not been established to this day, and we will now continue to work on what the Constitutional Court has said. However, here we have witnessed and this has been discussed here in the hall that the professional services of this assembly have done so much and that people are sitting in halls where no one is present. So, before we could articulate our opinions that we wanted, but now we've got so much space, but still people don't sit in their seats. I know that people are always ahead of the task and that it's the pandemic that did what she did, but we also have to ask ourselves our responsibilities that we got from the people who chose us. I don't want to be a populist here, so now talk about some things, but I think each of us can look himself in the mirror and say how he behaves the duty he's given, get trust. We can always have an opportunity to express our view of anything, and we can also be the creators of good and creative proposals, but we also witness that here in this hall are people who are actually thieves of time. They simply repeat themselves, and perhaps that is why some of these discussions in this assembly are actually uninteresting to people, including viewers. What I want to say to end is that I really think it's time to start a change of the entire Regulation and that we're simply making this debate interesting, but also every MP can work not only in the assembly, he can work on committees, and eventually he can work with the people who chose him. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11386	Thank you, fellow Shimičević. We have one replica of our colleague Tomašević, and a pardon, and a colleague, Tudjman, first is a colleague, Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11387	I'm here, I'm here. So I wanted to replicate again, the repeated thesis that is being presented here that, that the halls are empty and that those who have sought and signed the request for an assessment of constitutionality, there were 35 of us, are not taking part in the work, nor are they using these halls. So please check it out. So, if you want to talk about who the MPs are, then tell me which representatives are which parties. So, at our club in the hall "Ante Starcevic" is currently three MPs, we listen to the debate, we use the possibility of replication and I have suggested how to optimise it. So the way to use the red salon first is so that it doesn't have to be Parliament staff in 3 halls of which 2 are empty, and in one there are three MPs. On the other hand, you can no longer vote at the galleries. So these chairs you see in the halls will be used to vote anyway. So, it means that, yes, and no, if these chairs were not introduced, they would have to be introduced to other halls to vote once a week or once every two weeks because no longer according to the presidency's decision can be voted with galleries, so please. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Don't be false. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11388	Comrade Tomasevic, I will now say something to the public for the sake of interest. That's exactly what I was proposing at the Bureau's session, that we sit, that no, no, that no, that no, that we do not agree 5 halls that with a 151 chair, but to fill that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11389	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11390	Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11391	But I didn't just say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11392	There's also a colleague of the Voice who's very critical of us from HDZ. You insisted, it must be this form, it's a constitutional court decision, we agreed with you. Now you're here after the first week and you're saying what we're saying as your idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11393	No, no, we didn't get along then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11394	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11395	So I'm not saying, I'm just saying they shouldn't be marked in the clubs of those chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11396	Look, but as soon as we go to improvisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11397	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11398	...problems will happen and then someone will say, and now this one can do it. We have a fixed form now, and don't suggest anything to me until yesterday that you said it wasn't going.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11399	I didn't suggest it, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11400	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11401	I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11402	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11403	Well, dear fellow, I didn't mean to count people here now, not by sex, not by party membership, not by blood cells, so here's the thing, if the goat lies, it doesn't lie. Here you have screens where you can really see that there are no people there, it's just a professional service.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11404	How many in this second hall of HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11405	Well, here I am, congratulating you because you are here and your colleagues and colleagues are with you, but I am now speaking here in general about HS and MPs and MPs who are elected, who should sit down and not sit down. I congratulate you for sitting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11406	Thank you. Second replica of Comrade Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11407	Thank you. Your Honor, you mentioned how the sessions were, and that some of them were uninteresting or wrongly spent time. The public assessment is based on the transfer of sessions of these is somewhere around the two. Is it negative 2 or plus 2, but mostly... It is not all, therefore, that everything is transmitted, or in the number of appearances and stages, but in the quality of the debate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we even went to do one analysis, we can do it with a hypothesis that those who most often reported that they were generally not chosen in the next cycle if they said what they were saying and in the way they said. Therefore, the public should be informed, but we should also be aware that, that it is necessary to debate about the measure of things and that by doing so the public will bring judgment on both the assembly and us. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11408	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11409	I thank the honourable representative, that you, you have said everything practically, I will only add that it is true that those who make the greatest drama here are not in the next assembly, but it is the same, it is the fact that some MPs spend in front of this pay phone maybe an hour and two hours, and actually say 3 or 4 sentences that always, over and over again, recycle and repeat. In that sense I spoke and I think it's good to hear smart suggestions and always have to support them, but something that repeats itself is actually not interesting to anyone, and then just sitting in the assembly becomes a pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11410	Thank you. You're free. A fellow Sacic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11411	Yes, Mr. Hrvoje Šimičević has repeatedly disrespected this 238. He said, "Here you are." He said that we have a time-stealer here in the assembly, that we have a bunch of losers, that we have repeaters, that his colleague Tudjman even supported him here, and that's not worthy of it. We now speak of colleagues in this meeting who have one legitimacy behind them that the thieves of time are colleagues of Hrvoje Šimičević are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11412	Comrade Sacic, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So everyone can interpret their view of the situation in the assembly in the way they think it's right, didn't insult anyone individually, gave one assessment as he saw it and it wasn't any violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11413	Here's my thanks, Mr. President. I'm just saying, I didn't say that anyone's a jerk, Mr. Sacic, in this room, not one word at all, but I just made my point, and you're actually telling a lie that I didn't say, so please don't insult people, I'm really trying. don't insult anyone here. [[Agreement: Thank you, fellow Shimičević]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11414	Thank you, fellow Simicevic, these were now replicas, okay, you had to say it, but don't say it anymore. Let's move on, colleague Hajdukovic, and here's an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I think that and I'm going to start by saying that these changes are about special working conditions in the event of a pandemic more than justifiable, it's a broad agreement of clubs and it needs to be made. What I hope for, and I believe, all of you colleagues and colleagues that this situation will go on as soon as possible and that we will return to normal mode. I'd like to share some things with you that came out of the debate, some of which aren't, but first of all, about the work of the board. I invite you all to the Committee on European Affairs, all who are interested in the representatives can attend and you will see that these are neither empty nor short debates, nor easy debates, but really topics concerning all of us and the Union, as well as Croatia. I also think that streaming the board on the web of the assembly or on the YouTube channel is a very good tool and should be used as much as possible and not just for the sake of and not only during the pandemic, but also later, because journalists and when they are present on the board it is not a direct transfer that is more of a taste or what they report is some summary of the board, not just a debate and not necessarily an emphasis that may be in the debate or which would be more interesting to the general public. The second thing is that we need to agree that as a parliament we want to work on. I always like to single out the Bundestag case or the way they organise the debate. So, we have, say, on the agenda of amending the Rules of Procedure, an allocated time to discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure is 3 hours, no, it can't be longer. So three hours. In those 3 hours, both government representatives and the promoter should be able to speak, there must be no government, nor representatives or club representatives. As far as MPs are concerned, time is allocated in those 3 hours according to the size of the club, which would mean, for example, that the HDZ Club, based on its size in those 3 hours, would have the right to an hour of debate. Whether to speak to one person, whether to speak to 10 people, whether to include themselves as answers to the discussions of other clubs, etc., it is a matter of HDZ or the club concerned to be organised, but it is a matter of rational waste of time. And now that we're talking about rational waste of time, that's what I'm much more concerned about than these changes to my colleague's and colleague's Rules of Procedure. In the last session, rarely when we stayed after three or four hours in the afternoon, rarely when. Do you think we've been working at this session since Tuesday, and we couldn't have used our time better during last session to discuss more points and more work? Here's the line for my debate. I only found some points that we could discuss. Report on the implementation of the Island Act for, watch out, 2018. This report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict Decision, on a decision on a conflict of interest for 2018. Report on the implementation of water management plans from 2016 to 2021 for the period 2016-2018 Annual report by the Croatian Small Economy and Innovation Agency Hamag-Bicro for 2018 The report on the financial audit carried out by local units for 2018 Report on the audit of port administrations carried out for 2017 Report on the work of the CROMAC Programme Council for 2018 Annual report on the work of the CROMAC Supervisory Board for 2018 Report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemeteries of Victims of World War II and Cemeteries of the postwar period 2018. My colleagues and colleagues, these are just the 2018 reports, and then for 2019 we are waiting, which I have not yet counted. When you add that on the agenda of the current session we have 22 opposition proposals, it also means different amendments to laws or new laws then I really don't see what we've been spending our time on in the last session and ending in the early hours of the day every time we could discuss so much more and so much work. The more some of the reports I have listed, which are very important to our work on the agenda. For example, the report by the Ombudsman, the Commission's report on the decision-making committee on the conflict of interest of one of the institutions that the government often knows or the Prime Minister contests, the situation on HRT in 2018, so I think it says more, that much more effectively and better and more interesting would be just a little better organisation of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11416	Thank you very much. You have two replicas or three of them seem to me. The first is Honorable Representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11417	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Hajdukovic, you have compared yourself and referred to the Bundestag, yet a lot of Sava will pass under the Sava Bridge while we get close to such things, but the fact is that it is not a very good use of time. Equally, I absolutely think that from these discussions it follows that we are ready for a new Rules of Procedure, but perhaps in this new Rules of Procedure it should be one provision that there is no replica inside the club because what you can say within the club, everyone within the club can tell themselves. So there is, there is a series, a series of things that should be improved and perhaps that this debate today, which is closely related to one topic, is being converted and we think that we are ready for one maybe new, more modern and more operational Rules of Procedure than we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11418	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11419	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Mrak, we absolutely agree with the need to open a debate on the new Rules of Procedure. We need to agree on our own how we want to work, whether we want to be what the working or speaking parliament says, I don't have a better translation, unfortunately these are English terms. The working parliament, for example, is the European Parliament where most of the jobs take place on boards or speaking, this is the one where the greatest battle is actually on the tide. Our culture and our work so far has been more for this talking parliament. And as for the replica inside the club, I would see it as a restriction on the freedom of speech of MPs. Maybe I don't agree with everyone in my club, especially if the club is made up of multiple parties. However, in my case it's only from one party, but here with you or with others I think it should be possible for others to express their opinions and disagreements or, after all, to offer a certain argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11420	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11421	Comrade Hajdukovic, you have advocated a more rational approach to the use of time during the debate. I agree with that, and I think that this is something that we need to think about when making a new Rules of Procedure, for example, in the European Parliament, I can talk to the representatives of the clubs for one minute, not more than 3 minutes, and a representative of the promoters if it is a representative of 4 to 5 minutes. At that time, all attitudes can be articulated and argued, in fact most of the most important decisions are made on committees that are serious working bodies where council representatives and committees are sitting where they try to find solutions that are best for all in a dialogue tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11422	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11423	Thank you very much, ma'am. Petyr, I agree with you. It might be too radical to go for a minute, but five minutes, three minutes, I think those are the frames in which it can actually be if you have some new contribution to the debate to say. There have been criticisms from colleagues and colleagues that certain things are constantly repeated and recycled, etc., it may be precisely because of the length of intervention that the Rules of Procedure now allows us. I've been a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for many years now, and you need to limit yourself to three minutes, so your debate. So, the debate has to be extremely focused on what you're trying to say, draw on and underline or suggest, there's not a lot of grumbling and there's not a lot of movement since the seventh century, so genes and problems and so on and so forth that you can give in some longer formats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11424	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11425	... Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] We have complied with this proposal of the Rules of Procedure with the ruling of the Constitutional, Constitutional Court, and we have done so within a relatively short period and despite the fact that we have not formally adopted a new Rules of Procedure or amendments in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but we are discussing them today. We have already managed to organise a work that is fully consistent with what the Constitutional Court has told us we must do, which is that we must provide every representative and representative with all the rights resulting from the conduct of the parliamentary duties. So, apart from the right to participate in the sessions, the right to ask questions, to take part in the debate and to vote, we have returned the story to the place where no one else is disputed by the right to, to the replica that we are at one point, I don't know for which reason we have entered the right of clubs, not the right of representatives, and that's fine. What's left open is just before I go to point 2, I'd just like to say that maybe it's a little sad to look at these rooms today that are secured for the work of MPs empty. However, what the president of the assembly said earlier is true, at an extended session of the Bureau of Assembly attended by all representatives of clubs other than the Most Club, but they did not show any dissatisfaction with the agreement reached afterwards. There have been suggestions to secure a different work where there would be no such large number of rooms with the risk of being, yawning empty, but the president of the assembly and we all really agreed that if the Constitutional Court had brought the right to ensure that each representative had to be a sort of job and the right to act in full force as it was intended for the constitutional, constitutional and Rules, we would always have provided that 151 chairs, even if they were and were, and empty because we had not provided 151 chairs for each representative with the risk of not being full at all times, that we had provided 150 or 149 of them would always be able to rewrite with the right constitutional court and bring us back to the situation that we had a problem and it wanted to avoid, and that's true, I have to say here. He said good meeting president, I'm very often critical of HDZ, not only of HDZ and not of the fact that it is HDZ, but here it is indeed, we've tried to find solutions that can be optimal for the work of advice, for the work of the assembly in these, in these conditions. What I also wanted to say was about ensuring that the work of the working bodies is carried out and in the sense that it is envisaged. 47, 52 and 57, which would suggest that meetings other than those of the classical call for current, technical, working, are not technical, but are working, as working bodies of the assembly, means all those laws and reports which are intended for us to reach conclusions on the calling of the thematic sessions of the meetings with individual topics, which then include relevant experts who can contribute to the more high-quality conclusions and outcomes of such meetings, but also call them thematic sessions or meetings with specific topics can also be called together by a third of the members, members of the working body. We have now predicted, unfortunately, that so far in this crown crisis we have not had the same, in these specific conditions of assembly work we have not had the opportunity to consume in this way, first and foremost for the reasons that outside members, unless they are representatives of the promoters, means ministries, governments or other state bodies, everyone else is in fact the availability of the assembly in this period minimally or even impossible. However, I think that this proposal is now going, if I understand it correctly, is also ensuring that thematic sessions can be held by electronic means. In doing so, I would just like to point out that I hope and express the same attitude to those representatives who have said that we hope that it will not be by email or by written means but by ensuring their participation as with all the other members. And it may be time, as the President of Parliament has said, to activate Article 53 and to set up a working group or committee that would prepare a new proposal for the Rules of Procedure because quality ideas have been put forward here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11426	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11427	Thank you. Well, I don't know if it's any kind of misunderstanding, but I'm a colleague of the voter's vice president, so I agree with the Presidency's decision to secure 151 chairs, and it's necessary to vote at least once a week because I don't think people can vote from the gallery. But what I said, perhaps there was a misunderstanding that made me think that there was no need for the parliamentary staff in all three halls that were scheduled for the opposition, because the chairs were scattered around the clubs were determined. So it seems to me in that sense that there's no point or use for every club to still have a marked chair of those 151. So I think it would be okay to first fill out who comes first from the opposition, the red salon and there's professional staff, when the MPs come to fill the yellow salon, then it's in the yellow salon, when there's a blue salon then and in the blue salon, when Starcevic then and Starcevic, but this is how they are all day long is the constituencies in all three halls, and that doesn't seem necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11428	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11429	Coli Tomasevic is the presidency's decision, but it is also the agreed decision of the extended presidency, meaning not only the president and vice-president of the assembly but also the representatives of the clubs who attended the same. And as far as I am aware at that time, the debate was held on whether the seats would be numbered or marked individually by the representatives or by the clubs. And there was a crucial debate and it gave up because of the peace of the house, the peace of the clubs, because not now, before some standardization of certain things to give up marking chairs. who would then be in that place all the time than reach an agreement, at least I hope [[Intruder: By name.]] reached an agreement on setting chairs in all rooms according to the club quotas, and that the clubs within themselves determine whether it will be fixed representation chairs or be some kind of dynamic set by the club itself. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11430	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11431	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Vice President, what you said was a fact, at that extended meeting, I was both myself and we have exactly what we agreed on. And at that meeting we opened the topic that we knew we had 151 chairs and we knew that many of those chairs would be empty. And it wasn't any surprise then, not now. Now, we can open a debate about why those chairs are empty, where the parliamentary deputies are, why aren't they here? But that's a topic for another debate and another story. What I'm absolutely sure of, and that's that this time lockdown actually led us to have some things actually done to different applications. Plenary session no, but perhaps some committee work or some meeting that, in that sense, we should amend the Rules of Procedure and what the President said to bring and acts, or forgive Bauk, colleague Bauk said that since 2005 we have one rule That means it's time to update it all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11432	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11433	You're right when you say it's not a topic of why chairs are empty, I don't think it's even a theme for a plenary session, it's a topic for party clubs and parties to see how this picture is sent to the public. I fully agree with you that we need to improve the work of the Assembly Committees and the plenary session itself. Here today, as I have already said great ideas, I will make my contribution also, I think that when we are already considering the new Rules of Procedure and the way we work, then we must in this new Rules of Procedure and resolve this issue that has been raised with my colleague Grumo to regulate the way in which the parliamentary immunity is removed, at the request of the MP himself, which he has now not been regulated. We met in an empty space. Likewise, to adopt a final code on the ethical action of MPs defined in Article 17, the Assembly may but the European Commission supports it in the report on the rule of law, and as one of the items it has just highlighted Negative that we don't have an ethical code for MPs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11434	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11435	Well, I'd just maybe suggest it, and you've already said it, but I just called to point out that empty chairs may not be the biggest problem, right, they're also some kind of message. We have 151 MPs, if someone isn't sitting in a chair that's kind of political, I hope most of them deserve, it's also a message. But I would refer to something that you will allow me to be told in the previous debate before you, only as one note, given that it is spoken by a member of your party, we must be a little more careful about this understanding of the parliament and the role of parliamentary representatives who are certainly not only operational and instrumental, so the laws and reports of 2018 are listed, but it is that we are creating serious differences between the consensus that they create about the tax, the work, the work rights, the human rights, etc., and we have to have an opportunity. that everyone says what they think about these questions. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11436	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11437	I agree here with you completely in this part of it, I think I'm the last representative who's not going to support the idea that this place here is a place where all the key questions for society are opened and that it doesn't come down to some chairs, and even less to some professional handlifters or, uh, time eaters, as they say. Ours, we have been given the opportunity to represent Croatian citizens, it is up to us to take the best possible opportunity to take advantage of what we know and know, and that someone will sit in the assembly at 10, 12 o'clock, his representatives, either not the color of the voice or not to recognize clearly the articulated attitudes and recognize in it the speakers of his interests and for his representative, it is not really the problem of the Rules of Procedure, but the consciousness of all of us, the abilities and clear, concrete policies that we represent here, and it is a much deeper actually a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11438	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next individual debate, I would just remind myself that after the debate on this point is over, there will be a free speech, i.e. a statement on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, so here, those who look over their screens, to be prepared for it because they are not here, and I ask all those from the clubs who answered, to tell their colleagues at the club to be here, yes. Next, the next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11439	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's actually a lot of things that's already been said about the Rules of Procedure. So to the Rules of Procedure, which is actually, if we think about it, the only act we bring in this assembly, which applies exclusively to 151, so it's the only act in the assembly that we're actually working on ourselves, the way we're going to work, the way we're going to act. So, it's a good thing today this debate is constructive, and I welcome it, it might be a good thing it's more like this in any other, therefore, legislative proposal. It was, I'll agree with most of them here, who said, a lot of constructive proposals and I definitely feel like we're actually going in the direction of starting to actually change the Rules of Procedure and adopt all these good ideas that have been put out here. In fact, what I would like to say is just briefly, the colleague said on behalf of the club, therefore, which was a motive, which was at all the goal of moving towards the adoption of the already abolished provisions of Article. 293a, and now this new proposal for provision 293b. So, the legitimate goal was to actually protect all of us here, first of all, that we are sitting here, all the employees who work in this room and in some way, the Constitutional Court in its decision and perceived it and it emphasized it and confirmed that it was indeed the goal that was to be achieved. What is actually left now in this debate and during the debate on the decision to amend provision 293.b is a matter of technique, i.e. how to enable this legitimate objective, for which I repeat, is also said by the Constitutional Court that it was justified, to be achieved. There were a lot of words here about technique, here's the last few discussions there were words about the way you sit, I'd say they were more or less questions of technical nature. Personally, I am never inclined to make the provisions, either the law or in this case, the Rules of Procedure, detail in a way that we actually unnecessarily burden the text of the provision because you can never predict all situations, and you are in fact, in some way, in a situation that will remain either indefinitely or will not be prescribed, so we will have a situation so that every month, depending on the situation that happens, we can change the Rules of Procedure, which I think is certainly not the purpose or idea of any of us. Also, something was said about starting or deciding who decided to start special work. So this proposal provides for it to be the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, here there were words that it should either be on the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the HS majority of the votes, there was also a proposal for it to be on the presidency's proposal, and the Parliament should, however, take into account, in my opinion, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which states who it really is, or who makes the Presidency. So the presidency makes up the president and vice presidents and in some way, the presidency is also a reflection here of the political majority, i.e. positions and opposition, and in some ways it makes no difference whether this decision is going to be made by the Presidency or by the Parliament by the majority of the votes, because in principle, I say, these are sort of the same thing. As far as it was concerned, it was on the Committee on the Constitution, which he also mentioned on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club of counterpart Tomaševic, the issue of vote-setting, so it would not be good if we came to a position to create double writing who votes. Then you will finally ask yourself what is the list or what is the way vote is good and we will create, in my opinion, an additional problem. Here, in short, so much for me, I mean, and I'm commending so really today that we've had a constructive discussion and I say, I'd like it to be that much more often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11440	Thank you, stay a colleague of the Habian, please, here because we have several replicas. The first one is a respected representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11441	Dear Representative Habib, you commended today's constructive debate, which was certainly constructive. Do you think that it would be debated and constructive on legislative proposals if the rulings had more respect for constructive proposals for opposition and amendments to be made to these legislative proposals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11442	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11443	Thank you very much. Here, I'm glad you asked that question. Yesterday, during the debate on budget rebalancing, I was thinking whether or not to report for a word, precisely because I wanted to say that I would like to hear constructive proposals of the opposition because what we actually heard about 90% yesterday by the opposition was a mere criticism, therefore, of the rebalancing, and very little constructive, so, sometimes we need to start off by ourselves, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11444	Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11445	Comrade Habib, I always have this personal struggle with it, something insane or insane. ... I'm saying, we always have this doubt to freak out or something. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've said well, we can't predict all the cases, all the circumstances that can arise, means over-normation definitely doesn't, but still, leading to experience and parliamentary work and in general, and yet, if you fail, if you don't prescribe all or at least most, it opens up a lot of maneuvering space for abuse. Of course, the question you are always dealing with, so to speak, if you have reasonable people then the agreement comes relatively and quickly but also the pandemic and the session in these circumstances has shown how challenging these conditions are sometimes for reasonable people. And finally, whoever decides on special terms, I would disagree with you here that the presidency keeps a complete make-up, it's not exactly like that, I would be closer to having it decided or the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure because he's closer to it or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11446	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11447	Thank you very much. I can agree with the first part in principle, so I was more or less when I talked about the technique of implementing this provision talking about details that are difficult to predict, so no one knows how long this epidemic will last, what further conjecture or consequences, so I was talking about details that I don't think makes sense, this article. In 293 B. to further burden him because everything is impossible to predict and historically, the course of the pandemic may also be changed, so I was talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11448	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11449	Thank you very much. Parliamentary representatives who have a pay phone to represent their people, a distinguished colleague, a truly constructive debate on the Rules of Procedure and the work of the Assembly is necessary and must not allow any reduction of the right of speech of parliamentary representatives, which was already done in the previous term, in March 2018, where the rights of Parliament's representatives of the Rules of Procedure were reduced, then the debate lasted all night, those who remember who were in this meeting, for what? The only possibility for a parliamentary representative to express his views, whether I agree with them or not, of his constituents and those who sent them is this one here Parliament. So once again, we try to do everything to make the center of decision-making political power a Parliament, and it is not possible for the Parliament to come down just to raise hands, and that is why we need to talk seriously and not to reduce the rights of parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11450	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11451	Thank you very much. I agree with you absolutely, and here you are one of the examples of how it should definitely be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11452	And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11453	Here I agree with you fellow Habib that it was a constructive debate, I think it was even on the Committee on the Constitution on Monday when we unanimously brought this article and said about those things that I presented as some improvement of what we have brought about that we will have amendments and further debate. in that sense, and this voting record. I agree with you that some survey can lead to a double official and unofficial result and that it is better to deal with it electronically and in that sense we have also discussed with the professional service how to ensure the same identity, in fact, and the presence of particularly those representatives who are not present at the session physically and vote, so that no one else will come to vote on behalf of them and that indeed we from the opposition make sure that the ruling majority at the time of the vote has quorum, i.e. that we can't bring it down if we need some law or some decision not to pass and in that sense some kind of vision, so the presence over the camera could be one of those solutions and I think we can come up with some solution that in the next few months to ensure that. So in that sense, it was my intervention, too, to put less professional services on the line, but in any case, I support this decision that it's 151 chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11454	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11455	Thank you very much. I can only briefly say, so I referred to what was said, what you said on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system where I thought, or I think we all agreed more or less, in fact, that there would be a problem in determining, so if you gave someone the paper as they voted, so you have on camera one, on paper another, then you would ask a question that is actually the result correct. You're out of your business, but I can agree with this other piece of work, absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11456	Finally, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists' Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11457	Thank you very much. Here we are discussing a very important topic for the functioning of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, as I have said in the Replica, parliamentary representative, representative of the people, the voice of the people, the people who are elected, the only thing they have a payphone, and that is the obligation of every parliamentary representative, of course, that ultimately the voters themselves decide on, the people themselves who will represent them in the next term of office, however, because of the future mandates, we are trying to do everything to preserve the level of the right to speak to parliamentary representatives, noting in the month of March in the last term of 2018, are reduced rights of speech of parliamentary deputies, which is not a good message in democracy to reduce business rights. At that time, they deceived a number of rights, then we opposed, it lasted all evening, until then the longest in the history of the Croatian Parliament in democracy, so that this constitutional decision was essentially the mind of the constitutional court, the decision was essentially nothing but something that was quite reasonable, then it limited the replicas to 3, so these are the limits reduced and the number of minutes, the number of then breaks, the current breaks, since then, were also breaks but were, could be opened during the session. At that time, the rights were reduced, I think it was a pretty big blow to democracy, when parliamentary deputies voted for themselves at the time both the SDP and HDZ voted for that amendment of the Rules of Procedure and it is not good, it is not good, and therefore this decision of the Constitutional Court is quite acceptable. I would say right now that we from Mosta would be here from this morning for the debate, but we have another infected after the test, it's our parliamentary representative Marin Miletic so for the sake of preventing us from seeing who should go into self-insulation, so here it is, 4 from our club are infected and recovering, for the time being, thank God, everyone is well, I hope the other representatives and all of our citizens and also had to mean another of our representatives to go into self-insulation because of close contacts. So this debate is usually in this debate. The work of the assembly is very important and we try to do everything for the people, because of the hope that only the story has been brought that the virus story in the Republic of Croatia, every day and these people are beginning to lose hope in these difficult times, and I hope that the assembly will work on a non-stop basis and that the parliamentary representatives will also have the opportunity for those in self-insulation and those who are currently infected to have the opportunity to express their views, attitudes for which they are citizens and elected. I'd still turn around, that's all. I would make a few suggestions, of course, that we all Parliamentarians each work in their own way, and that's the wealth of democracy, I know that often I piss you off, but the fact that we have committees, parliamentary committees that are supposed to be the key to me making decisions and the debate is not just to raise votes because I know that most on boards, I think we're trying to decide so that someone can't come and leave, says I'm leaving ahead my vote because I can't be present, not even voting, but the Council says that it's from a certain point. So that would define it, and it would tribal those committees perhaps pay more attention and allow the public to be more involved on these committees, so certainly parliamentary representatives will accept better than those who are closed to the public, but I do not know what should be closed to the public except what is important to the national security of the Republic of Croatia exactly what is important. So the committees get their weight and weight back so that in this way, both through the media and through the public, people get that these committees are not just plenary sessions, what parliamentarians do. Once again, I would say that freedom of speech is the most important thing in democracy. In the Homeland War there are numerous people, we have all fought together for democracy, this parliament must not allow anyone to humiliate him and become just a figurine of hand-lifting Fridays, to be crack-lifters of hands, regardless of whether we are in the majority or minority, we have and must, and we have an obligation to our people, to people where we come from and those who send us here and do not allow the assembly, the key place of Croatian politics and sovereignty to become a mere voting machine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11458	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for really one fair very constructive debate on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Here, the point was to comply with the decision actually of the Constitutional Court although already under these rules the basis of epidemiological recommendations we are already working on, but the good thing is that today we have opened other topics related to the Rules of Procedure and the way the Croatian Parliament works, and there has been a lot of good thinking. The Committee on the Constitution is a parent working body and I am here after this debate today what I can see is that we need to open a debate within the Committee in fact on the totality of our work and the overall functioning of the Rules of Procedure. Here there was, in fact, an idea about the experiences of some countries, which are thought to have a more developed system of democracy, there was also a colleague, Hajdukovic, who discussed that and counterpart Marijana Petir and Professor Tudjman, all talked about the experiences of some others that they might be able to see. What was also a speech, there were speeches to strengthen, strengthen the work on committees because there are outside members who can help the quality of work, we'll look at it, we'll look at it all because we actually see in this article how different we are, but here I would say on the board and within the clubs a consensus on how to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and yet we have several amendments that have been submitted, so I am announcing a session of the Committee I see here and a lot of members of the Constitution Committee, so I announce Tuesday in about 8 and 30 how things are now. We need to set ourselves up according to these amendments in order to approach this vote. In any case, what we do seem to be the Rules of Procedure as we now have at its centre is a representative, he has broad rights, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we propose today we are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision which is in fact very clear in his decision cannot and must not limit the work and manner of giving opinions and the extent of the statement of opinion of the parliamentary representative. Here is the one on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system we will open this debate in fact to further amendments or possibly a new Rules of Procedure that will enable us to be, to be this one in some way above that and to have a better perception in the public which is not brighter about the work of the Croatian Parliament and it is good to ask ourselves why, but it is always at the centre of the Parliament's representative that we must not limit freedom, and the competence and expertise of these discussions cannot be affected but it is actually a matter for each of us. Thank you very much, everyone, once again for the debate, I see there's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11460	Thank you, yes, here, despite the whole discussion, we still have a replica. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11461	Thank you very much, Vice President. First, let me tell you that I am very pleased with the announcement that you will open the debate within the board. It should not, of course, be limited just to the debate within the board, but of course, that's where it should begin. And a little suggestion actually when we think about the changes we need, I think we should think about what we want to do first. So when we set our goals, they'll come in their own way. And here we talk about the experiences of others, other parliaments, etc., then we can take advantage of their solutions that we consider best and most applicable to our case, but I think first of all, we should set goals. And one more thing, I would just like to add in general to the debate, as far as the Committee's work is concerned, I think it depends primarily on the board members themselves, how much they will work and how much they will be given in this debate, and at least on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure cannot make committees more quality than the members who make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11462	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj. Yeah, you want to answer something, and here you go, sorry, I'm not, uh, this one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11463	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic, for your experience today in your debate on how it works in Bundestag. However, it is clear that solutions cannot be comparatively copied and transferred directly to our system. It must actually be adapted to our capabilities, our goals, and therefore some solutions may pass in Budestag, and perhaps here they can't. But, definitely, what I agree with everyone is that we have to examine the work, we will not limit ourselves, be sure, only to the board members because we also had some committee meetings today where other parliamentary representatives who are not members of the board were present, so we will do so, but we will open the debate, in fact to the professional public where it would be very good to hear what the professional public thinks about our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11464	Here's the next replica, the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11465	Thank you very much. We are the ones who have to hold the high ground, so the centre of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, that is HS, and I believe that MPs both at plenary sessions and committees must give the maximum, and in order for us to leave to the public what is better, and we do not have a good public rating, according to research, in my opinion we should consider the amendments of the Rules of Procedure and these constitutional breaks. I've personally given up 6, 7 legal changes so far, and they can't get in the way of the debate. So our agenda is full of laws that aren't discussed, and we often take breaks. I think we should give the public the impression that this constitutional and summer break, the fall break, the winter break, that is. We've got two, but between us we still have some regular breaks, so the tribal can end it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11466	Thank you. Dear Representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11467	Thank you very much. Some things are for the Rules of Procedure, and this about breaks is actually even a matter of the Constitution. The constitution changes, it's, you know, the procedure itself, it's a little more complicated, but all we can do with the Rules of Procedure is make it better, we're open and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11468	The next replica of the respected MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11469	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleague Bosnjakovic, I would like two topics. One topic, the coronaryvirus and this lockdown taught us something, that we can be faster, that we can be more operational and that we can really agree on some more important things, and I think that in that sense we should go either to the amendments to this Rules of Procedure or to the new Rules of Procedure. In fact, all that we've seen now is that when someone forces us to do something, and they force us to do it, that we can do it, and I don't see any reason to, in that sense, I always agree that, somehow, I'm pushing for a new Rules of Procedure because when these changes start and they add, it's hard to follow, but you're going to decide. But once again, I ask you to consider our amendment on the board. I don't think that amendment brings any new problems, but it opens up and it's clear. So that decision is not taken by the Presidency but taken at the plenary session of the Parliament. She's being brought to the normal majority according to that, I think that's better and more correct. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11470	Dear Representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11471	I fully agree with this first part, and we are really open here to discuss and find as many better solutions as possible, and here you are invited to come, to give an opinion, to suggest this. However, this is us already, I know about this amendment, we've already discussed this in the last board session, and now we're going through the amendment to discuss it again. What was motive, not to accept immediately, and that provision that the decision on a special mode of work was made by HS, not the Presidency, was the motive, between the break, between plenary sessions or within the plenary session, of some kind of threat and some kind of danger, to which a quick and operational response should be made. That could be done by the Presidency sooner than we can discuss, it was some motive and we've actually accepted a lot, which was proposed by these other clubs, here was motive, but we're opening up again. A debate about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11472	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join my colleagues who have already drawn experiences from other parliaments, especially with regard to the importance of working on committees, because otherwise it turns out to us that the public gets the impression that in HS they work exclusively when we have plenary sessions, e.g. in the EU, you only have once a month plenary sessions, only in one week, in the month. Everything else is being handled on committees, but of course, then the committees have a much larger weight where there is, for example, In our case, it would, of course, be with the government in the making of some proposals at an earlier stage. It may not be a change for this moment in the Rules of Procedure, but it certainly is worth discussing and considering for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11474	Dear Representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11475	Thank you, my fellow Stier, and here you have the experience of working in the EU Parliament, and indeed, it would be good to, in this session of Parliament, which many say is even better, one of the better in the last councils that have been, to make these steps, and to produce one Rules of Procedure that would have been and to enable a better way of working within the Parliament, because it seems to me that we have the strength and that we can do so together and if there is any law where we need to reach some consensus then it is precisely this law that is called the Rules of Procedure on how the Croatian Parliament works, because here we should not go to a vote on such or such a vote, but there would all together have to achieve a consensus and create a framework where we all see ourselves and where we can see that we can all realise as Parliamentarians within it. Comparative experiences will come in handy, definitely, but we need to find our way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-06-0.u11476	Thank you very much, I would like to conclude a debate on this point, of course we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
